tbmm-2019-12-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. According to our agenda, we will begin negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law and 2018 Central Management Computation Law Proposal. Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, Commission Reports 129 and 130 rows have been suppressed and distributed. I wish you the best of our talks, Your Holiness. Now, I promise Mr. Fuat Oktay to make a budget presentation for the administration. Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I salute you with love and respect on behalf of Mr. President and myself. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After our presentation on October 24th, intensive studies from November 6 to 29th 2019 concluded the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and talks held in the Plan and Budget Commission for the Proposal of 2018. I thank the Honorable President and members of our Plan and Budget Commission for their 37 days of hard work and hard work, the Minister and my friends, and the precious representatives of our public institutions, who have contributed to the efficiency of the process. Today, we begin the discussion of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law and the 2018-Year Central Management Law Proposal for the Final Accounting Law. We believe that budget talks in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the aim of national will, are a great opportunity to demonstrate the vision of our President and cabinet and to account in front of our nation. I wish the central management budget of 2020, which is the 2nd and 18th budget of the presidential government system and the EC PARTY government, to the best of our state and nation. Economic fluctuations, threats of sanctions, or regional uncertainty have not driven Turkey away from its goals, but have led us to hold on to our goals more tightly. In this direction, the budget of 2020, the budget of our industry, our farmers, our students, our young people, our women, our children, 82 million is the budget of all of us, which is centralizing the goals of the 11th Development Plan and New Economic Programme, predicting development in all areas. We see the 2020 budget as an opportunity for sustainable economic development and social prosperity, covering all parts of our society. In this scope, I will talk today about recent developments in the global economy, general outlook in Turkey, developments in our central management budget, predictions, and again, the final account of central management in 2018, central management budgets in 2019, central management budgets in 2020, income policies and implementations. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin our budget presentation by first referring to the global economic outlook we're in. A moderate recovery of global growth is expected in 2020. The tendency to slow down in economic activity, which began in 2018, the unstable relationship of the United States and China, depending on the growing number of uncertainties about Brexit, has weakened global trade volume and concerns about global growth continued in 2019. In addition to commercial and geopolitical tensions, the global economy has negatively affected investor confidence and global trade developments in uncertainties towards the future of international economic and commercial co-operation. In this framework, global growth declined from 3.8 per cent to 3.6 per cent in 2018, losing momentum. In the developing economies of 2018, there was a weaker economic activity than the developed country's economies. By the second quarter of 2019, however, relatively looser monetary policies that began to be implemented in developed economies began to support the global economy. On the other hand, in the second quarter of 2019, the rise of concerns about global trade, and also the detection of geopolitical risks from the Middle East, has led to increased risks for growth throughout the year. In this framework, global economic growth is envisioned to be reduced to the lowest level after the global crisis at 3 per cent at the end of the year. In the developing economies of our country, as well as in 2019, the growth of conservation trends in global trade wars, the decline of confidence and investment climate, and the significant economic slowdown in China, as in 2018. In 2020, capital currents for developing economies are expected to increase and support growth in a positive way, as the relative money policy has begun to be laxly implemented in developed countries. In this framework, the growth rate of developing economies growing by 4.5 per cent in 2018 is reduced to 3.9 per cent in 2019, but it is expected to rise back to 4.5 per cent in 2020 and grow by 4.6 per cent on average. In advanced economies, growth rate is expected to be 1.7% this year and next year. According to the averages of last term, the low growth prospects are based mainly on the decline of external demand, mainly due to commercial tensions. Despite strong job development, the trade disputes of the United States of America are pressing on growth, and the impact of the trade war is spreading to many sectors. In this direction, American growth is expected to gradually descend from 2.9 per cent in 2018 and to be 2.4 per cent in 2019 and 2020, respectively, 2.1 per cent. Economic growth in the eurozone has slowed since mid-2018 and has been weak in the first half of the year 2019. Slowing down on export channel has been reflected in industrial production, especially in the automotive sector. The growth of the eurozone is expected to remain 1.2 per cent in 2019, along with the uncertainty of the wavy course in the Brexit process. However, the expected relative global atmosphere in 2020 predicts a slight recovery of the economy in the eurozone and growth of 1.4 per cent. As a result, global economic growth is estimated to rise to 3.4 per cent in 2020 compared to 2019, along with the expected resurgence of economic growth, supporting policies and economic activity. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the most important factor affecting global growth is the development of trade volume. The negative effects of growing trade tensions between the United States and China limit the growth in global trade volumes, and the rise of conservative policies across the world, depending on that, suppresses global growth rates. As a major result, the increase in foreign trade volume increased by 3.6 per cent in 2018 is expected to increase by 1.1 per cent in 2019 and by 3.2 per cent in 2020 by improving. To support growth in the current global environment, the developed country is implementing central banks' expanding monetary policies. This monetary policy stance is expected to continue in 2020. As a matter of fact, after 2008, the Federal Bank of the United States went to the interest reduction in July 2019, continuing its expanding monetary policy, continuing its interest reductions in September and October. The FED is also considered to be able to go to interest reduction in 2020, while the European Central Bank remains close to zero levels of policy interest. Mr. President, in 2018, the unemployment rate was 5 per cent at a global level. In addition to young unemployment, the lack of sufficient labor is among the chronic problems of the global labour market, in line with the skills required by the labour market, depending on the inequality of education and income levels. The expected weakening in global growth also affects demand negatively, causing inflation rates to stay low. Depending on this, oil prices are under way.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit01spe0003par0029	Why are we rising, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit01spe0002par0030	In the coming period, the global inflation rate is expected to follow a horizontal course. In 2018, average inflation in developed economies as 2 per cent is estimated to take place by 1.5 per cent in 2019. The inflation rate of emerging and developing economies, which was 4.8 per cent in 2018, is estimated to be 4.7 per cent in 2019. In the early 2019s, oil markets were pressured in terms of supply and prices moved upwards. In addition to the sanctions of Iran and Venezuela, the price of oil has exceeded 70 dollars per barrel, as some non-OPEC countries, particularly Russia and the OPEC, enforced their decision to reduce production. Together with May, however, the tension of the trade war again has triggered demand-directed concerns, pushing down oil prices. Depending on the continuation of trade uncertainty and the slowdown expected to continue on the global level of economic activity, and the decline of demand and production as factors that can allow oil prices to move downwards in the coming period.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit01spe0003par0032	Will it reflect on us, Mayor?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit01spe0002par0033	Increased geopolitical risks for oil producers in the Middle East and continuing to slow American production of rock oil are viewed as high-profile risks by the supply on oil prices. As a result of all these assessments, the average price of oil is expected to be 61.8 American dollars in 2019 and under 60 American dollars in 2020. However, bringing up new supply restrictions by oil producer countries poses a high-profile risk over forecasts of 2019. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are expected to be positively influenced by our economy's expanding monetary policies, with the prospect of recovery in global growth and trade-related foreign demand. On the other hand, fluctuations in global financial markets and higher-pronged movements in oil prices could pose a risk on the balance of current transactions and inflation in Turkey's economy. Mr. President, before we make any progress in Turkey's economy, I'd like to make a very brief mention of some of the basic activities and services we've made over the past 17 years. Dear lawmakers, as you know, we have a stable position in budget discipline behind our successes in the economy. At the end of 2018, we reduced the budget deficit, which was 11.2 per cent in 2002 to 2 per cent. So we have a financial structure where we can spend our tax revenues more effectively. In addition to supporting growth and employment by creating the financial space, we have made significant improvements by signing major infrastructure investments in economic and social areas such as transportation, RD, education and health. During the 2003 (2018) period, we produced an average of 5.6 per cent year-on-year growth, creating a total of 9.8 million jobs across the economy, and an average of about 610,000 new jobs year-on-year. In 2018, we increased the share of RD spending in national revenues from 0.51 percent in 2002 to 1.03 percent. The amount of spending increased from $1.8 billion in 2002 to $38.5 billion in 2018. We've created major infrastructure investments in many areas, particularly transportation. In this framework, we have raised our number of airports to 56, our divided length to 27,123 kilometers by November 2019, while we have again created a 1,213km line for the use of faster trains that had not been used before. In total, we have increased the number of classrooms from 343,000 to 721 thousand, and reduced the number of students per day in primary school from 36 to 24. We have increased the number of hospital beds to 27.9, from 24.8, and the number of qualified beds from 19,000 to 145. As a result of our health investments, we have reduced the rate of infant death in a thousand live births from 31.5 to 6.8, and the rate of mother death in 100,000 living births to 13.6. We demonstrate our stable stance on budget discipline, which allows us to achieve our achievements, in a way that provides more support for growth and prosperity. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to tell you about the development of the Turkish economy. In the last 17 years, our country has begun to feel its weight in the world, not just economically but politically, and has become one of the world's regional power centers. At the same time, this has not escaped the attention of our country's political and economic opponents and has faced many internal and external political shocks. The last example of these is the speculative courtship attacks that started in August last year. However, despite any clear threats and pressures, these shocks have been neutralized by the firm stance of our government under the leadership of our President. As a result of the shocks, a very stable struggle has been put into place, with the support of our people being well-managed, and the expectations have been well-managed and a certain decline in inflation has been prevented from solidifying the price increase. Economic growth has been supported by tax cuts, employment incentives and credit programmes without compromising financial discipline. The foreign trade policies and the composition of imports with measures have begun to change in a way that supports exports, and important steps have been taken towards an economy that provides more current transactions with the support of tourism revenues. Even in 2018, when household consumption and private sector fixed investment spending were poor, 2.8 per cent growth was recorded. In the first half of the year 2019, growth in economic activity began to recover from net exports and public expenditures. With improved financial conditions and a decline in inflation, especially in the third quarter of 2019, risk premiums and ambiguities have been reduced. Thus, the economy has grown by 0.9 per cent, mainly due to consumption spending, and has been allowed to re-enter the growth path three quarters later. In the third quarter of the year 2019, when economic activity began to recover, it increased by 0.4 per cent of the GDP, de-seminated from seasonal effects, and maintained its positive appearance for two quarters. In the last quarter, we predict a significant leap in growth and closing 2019 with a positive growth of 0.5 percent. Co-ordinated monetary and financial policies envisioned in the New Economic Programme will continue to be implemented. In addition, structural transformation in the economy, such as judicial reform strategy and tax reform, will help the economy sit on a sustainable growth path as it lowers inflation, with steps to strengthen predictability in fundamental areas. In this framework, our growth target for 2020 is 5 percent. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have reached 25.2 per cent in October 2018, due to the decline in cost pressure and pricing behavior due to increased foreign currency rates. Strong co-ordination between monetary and financial policies, low-profile action at price prices, public pricing mechanisms, and the impact of precipitous price fluctuations on consumer inflation, and the trend of inflation reductions in social support, as a result of the impact on consumer inflation. In this framework, consumer inflation was reduced to 20.3 per cent at the end of 2018, in line with the forecasts of the New Economic Programme, and 10.56 per cent as of November 2019. At the end of the year 2019, we predict TÜFE (TIFE) to be less than 12 per cent of the New Economic Programme target. [[İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroglu's General Assembly Hall gives a standing ovation from CHP's ranks during his presence]] The implementation of policies envisioned in the New Economic Programme is one of our main goals when inflation is permanently reduced to low, single-digit levels. In this framework, we expect inflation to drop to 8.5% in 2020 and 4.9 per cent in 2022. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as I mentioned in the global development department, have negatively affected our biggest export market, our export exports in the European Union economy, but have risen to 176.9 billion dollars by the end of 2018, according to the general trade system. We expect our annual exports to exceed $180 billion by the end of 2019. Our export target in 2020 is 190 billion dollars. We estimate travel revenues will reach $29 billion by the end of 2019. In this framework, in the year 2020, where we expect the revival of tourism to continue, we predict our goal of travel revenues is $34.3 billion. Cari transactions are expected to give a reasonable deficit in 2020, as predicted in the New Economic Programme. With the decline in inflation, the decline in risk premiums and the optimisation of the environment for quality capital inputs will be the key determinant of external financing. The current account deficit is expected to take place at minus 1.2 per cent in 2020. Depending on the transformation in production, we also expect to increase exports of high-increased goods in the coming period. This will also be supported by reducing dependency on imports through domesticization. As a result of the prediction that travel revenues will also increase significantly, the current balance of transactions will be permanently improved, the need for external financing will decrease, the trend for stable and sustainable growth will be maintained. Turkey will continue to be a safe haven in the region and the address of fast and easy trade with new-generation practices in the coming period. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were employed in 2018 with additional employment of approximately 550,000 people, and unemployment was held at 11 per cent. Development in growth also reflects employment, and our labour market is affected by economic growth. As a result of economic slowdown in the second half of 2018, unemployment is expected to be 12.9% by the end of 2019. On the other hand, with a five per cent growth target in 2020, economic recovery is envisioned as a result of improved employment and participation in the labour force. I'd like to say that employment incentives will continue to be effectively implemented, along with the implementation of delayed investments and increase in production as a result of the strengthening economic security environment for employment. In addition, structural steps towards the labour market will be taken. In this framework, the labour market is envisioned to be flexible between the parties on trial and equivalence and partial-term work. In 2020, we will implement a strong support package for female employment. We will continue by increasing the ability to work flexiblely to facilitate women's employment and to improve women's employment; to strengthen women's co-ops; to increase our incentives to promote vocational education programmes based on child care services and needs. We will ensure that young unemployment is reduced by reinventing employment incentives according to needs and by involving young people in vocational training programmes that fit the needs of the business world. In this framework, employment is expected to increase by 1 million,22,000 people in 2020 to 2019, while unemployment is expected to fall to 11.8 per cent. According to the new Economy Programme, we aim to increase employment by 3.2 million people over the next three years to cut unemployment by 9.8 per cent in 2022. Mr. President, before we move on to the improvements and fundamental sizes of our central management budget, I'd like to briefly share what we've achieved so far for public finance. One of our most important gains in public finance is that we have reduced interest payments in the budget. In 2002, we estimate that interest spending will be 43.2% within budget costs, while in the 2020 budget it will remain 12.7 per cent. With the financial space that we've established in this framework, we're increasing substantially the amount of resources that are assigned to our citizens as services. When we compare tax revenues with interest costs, a similar outlook occurs. Each $100 tax collected in 2002 is estimated to go to interest spending at $85.7, while only $17 in the 2020 budget will be earmarked for interest spending. Another important gain of public finance is to ensure a significant reduction in debt stock. In the early 2000s, the level of the European Union's defined debt supply at 76.1 per cent of the GDP was reduced to 32.2 per cent as of the second quarter of 2019. According to data from the European Statistical Office, 28 EU member states' debt supply is at 80.5 per cent GDP in the same period. According to the IMF Global Economic View Report on October 2019, the rate is 103.1 per cent for developed countries and 53.3% for developing countries. With 32.2% of our debt supply at low levels, our finance policy has significantly increased functionality. In 2019, we aim to bring the EU-defined stockpile of general government debt, expected to be 32.8 per cent, to an end to 33.2 per cent of the GDP at the end of the New Economic Programme in 2020, and 32.3 per cent. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to pass on the main perspective and financial policies that we have envisioned in our budget to continue our earnings. We've determined our goals in the focus of efficiency in the plan as part of a stable growth model based on exports, where the industry plays the role of driving power. In the growth model we've determined, investments are intended to be forwarded to productive areas, on the other hand, to increase domestic savings. In this scope, we aim to increase the rate of domestic savings to over 30 per cent at the end of the planning period. In addition to encouraging savings of households and companies to increase domestic savings in the development plan, we predict increased public savings and that these savings will be directed to investments in the efficient areas of the economy. In addition to the adoption of programme budgetary systems, the plan envisions growth in support of financial policies, expenditures are being reviewed to improve the efficiency of finance policy. In addition, the revisions that will strengthen tax justice and expand the tax base are among predictions, as well as the increased self-income of local governments. It is also aimed at boosting the registered employment for strengthening the social security system, expanding the population within the system and increasing the premium collections, and controlling the pressure of pensions and health expenditures on public finances. Mr. President, before moving to the budget budget sizes of the central administration in 2020, I would like to present policies and predictions on public finances in the New Economic Programme of 2020-2022. The finance policies, which were implemented after the shooting shock of August 2018, supported economic activity as well as the fight against current and inflation. Through effective budget policies implemented, in 2018, the GDP deficit of central management was held at a reasonable level of 2%. In the 2020-2022 period, we will continue fiscal discipline with determination. In this scope, we aim to increase efficiency in tax collection and reduce informality in the economy, to implement structural changes that will enable efficient use of resources and increase savings in designated areas, so that public debt will continue to be kept at low levels. During the next three years of the new Economic Programme, we also aim to reduce the deficit to less than 3 per cent of the GDP. Mr. President, I would like to share with you some of the sizes of the 2018-Year Central Management Computing Law Proposal: budget costs in 2018 were 830.8 billion, budget revenues were 758 billion, budget deficits were 72.8 billion, interest-free over $1.1 billion. In 2018, the budget costs for 2018 have increased by 10.8%, according to the initial budget forecast, by 1.8 per cent, according to the forecast for the year-end, but our budget revenues have increased by 8.1 per cent, according to the initial budget forecast, by 1.1 per cent, according to the year-end forecast. The budget deficit, which was 72.8 billion dollars in 2018, was originally estimated at over $6.9 billion in deficits, while the forecast for the end of the year was over 0.7 billion. Mr. President, our high-value lawmakers and our year-end expectations for the budget of central management in 2019 are this: in 2019 we estimate that the central management budget costs will be 992.4 billion, the central management budget budget revenues will be 867.4 billion, the budget deficit will be 125 billion, and the non-interest deficit will be 21.9 billion dollars. At the end of 2019, we expect the budget deficit to be over $44.4 billion, with $125 billion to start the budget. We estimate that this deficit is going to be 2.9% for national income. If you look at the details of the budget costs in 2019 -- I'm giving you about -- we expect that personnel costs will be 250 billion, state premiums to social security institutions are going to cost 44 billion, goods and services costs of 78 billion, business transactions are going to cost 397 billion, capital costs of 75 billion, capital transfers are going to cost of 15 billion, 29 billion, and interest costs of $103 billion. In 2019, we estimate tax revenues will be around $668 billion and non-tax revenues will be around $200 billion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to give you some information about the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. In our budget budget of 2020, budget costs are 1 trillion 95.5 billion, costs out of interest 956.5 billion, budget revenues 956.6 billion tax revenues 784.6 billion and budget deficit 138.9 billion. The distribution of budget costs in 2020 according to economic classification is 282.5 billion, state premium costs to social security institutions are 48.1 billion, goods and services costs 75.6 billion, current transfers are 451.1 billion, capital costs 56.6 billion, capital transfers 6.8 billion, lending costs 27.1 billion, subsidiaries 8.8 billion, and interest costs are estimated at 138.9 billion. In 2020, according to the revenue of central management budgets in 2019, with an increase of 10.3 per cent, we estimate that 956.6 billion dollars will increase by 17.5 per cent of tax revenues to $784.6 billion, while non-tax revenues will reach 172 billion. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our budgets are a reflection of our financial policies that we've shaped based on the developments in our economy. In this framework, our budget for 2020 was prepared in line with our approach to balance, discipline and change in the economy. The building of fair sharing with sustainable growth focused on production and efficiency is the main goal of our budget in 2020. The 2020 budget will also have a service budget, as in our previous 17 budgets. The interest payments will be cut down in the budget, while the payment will be increased as a service to the citizen. Our resources in the budget will be used to provide services that our citizens need. As predicted in the New Economic Programme, the budget will be based on sound and sustainable revenues, while the revenues collected will be our primary priority, based on an understanding of the service to our citizens. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it has always been our main priority to raise qualified and happy individuals who are capable of creating technology and production that transform knowledge into economic and social benefits in all phases of comprehensive and quality education to strengthen our country's human capacity. The education services that we consider to be the basic public service during our governments have been made significant progress in making them widespread and accessible. The number of teachers has been increased, and in all levels of education, including girls and disadvantaged students, the number of students per classroom has been significantly reduced. Our focus on education will be strong, the strong teacher will be strong. Education has always been a country and a nation's homework for us. In our budget for 2020, education is as important as ever. In 2020, we raise our education budgets to 176.1 billion dollars. So we spend about 16.1 per cent of our budget expenses on education alone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2020, our investments in promoting vocational and technical training workshops, modernisation of design and skills workshops, support of teachers' professional development will come first. In addition, we continue to provide our students directly from our budget in 2020 with cash and equally significant support. The amount of funds earmarked in this scope is 26.4 billion liras. For the scholarship and education loans that our 2 million students receive, $12.5 billion, 1 million 315 thousand students, $4.5 billion for transport education and food benefit programme, $2.7 billion for education programmes that our 403,000 disabled children will benefit from, $2.7 billion for our students' support and training courses, $1.8 billion will be given to our universities, $1.2 million for the benefit of education support for nearly 260,000 students who go to private schools, and for the benefit of 35,000 students who live in pensions. Mr. President, with our reforms, we improve the quality of health care we offer to our citizens and make it accessible to each of our citizens. In our society, we've raised our health care costs to grow healthy generations. We'll be saving 188.6 billion dollars for health care in the budget of 2020. Thus, in 2002, we increase the budget of health expenditures of 11.3 per cent to 17.2 per cent in 2020. In this context, we have saved 98.4 billion dollars for treatment spending in 2020, 47.3 billion for drug spending, 10.5 billion for family medicine. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in 2020 we will continue to support infrastructure investments that will encourage the private sector's innovative and productive investments. In this framework, in 2020, we earmarked $64.1 billion from the central management budget to investments. We have also increased budgetary resources for local governments in our time of power, based on our importance to local governments. In this context, we are increasing our resources to $97.3 billion, according to the budget of 2019, to our major cities and other municipalities and private administrations. One important axis of our economic policies is regional and rural development. During the time of our governments, we've devoted much more resources to special-purpose regional and rural development projects than before, and we continue to divide them. We're saving $1.5 billion for the KYODES Project, which we created to strengthen the infrastructure of villages, 837 million for the SDUAP project, which we created to strengthen the water and sewage infrastructure of municipalities, $2.4 billion for street lighting. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've implemented a lot of new practices that we can call reform in the field of welfare, and we've diversified social aid programmes. In this case, we've raised our social spending budget for 2020 to $69.5 billion. This amount corresponds to 6.3 per cent of the 2020 budget. In 2002, it was 1.3 per cent and only 1.6 billion liras. In 2020, we have earmarked $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion, under the support of electricity consumption for poor families, $1.8 billion, children in economic poverty, and the families of children and young people who are over 65 years old, who are in need of care, disabled citizens and disabled citizens, to pay $1.6 billion in social and economic support to support the home care of disabled citizens. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, strengthening the woman's position is one of our basic policies. In this scope, we continue to implement the Strategy Document and Action Plan for the Enforcement of Women built on the basic axis of participation in education, health, economics, decision-making mechanisms. We're taking new steps to promote women's co-op, and we've formed a group of women's cooperatives in 81 counties. With the influence of incentives and supports, we aim to increase women employment by 34 percent in 2023 and women's employment by 38.5%. We continue our fight against violence against women with an understanding of zero tolerance. In this framework, we are also preparing our Co-ordination Plan 2020-2021, as we meet with our Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, Justice, Internal Affairs, National Education, Health Ministry and the President of Dianet Affairs. A total of 514,000 people have benefited from the prevention and monitoring centres that we have opened in 81 districts. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the guarantee of our future, our efforts to assess our young people's free time, support personal and social development, protect them from harmful habits and enable active participation in decision-making processes are still ongoing. Our young people are given seminars and trainings on the fight against all kinds of addiction, and projects on fighting addiction are supported. Our efforts are being carried out to ensure that our university students are financially supported and sheltered in modern environments and that they are healthy and balanced. In sports, stadiums, swimming pools, youth centers, sports halls, track track tracks, and other youth and sports facilities have been built and modernised in existing facilities. 962 of the 1,220 youth and sports facilities, including 37 stadiums in the investment programme, 294 gyms and 79 swimming pools, have been completed and served. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the agricultural and forest area, are always at the top of the areas we care about. We've developed a 100 percent domestic and environmental electric tractor prototype that saves up to 90 percent by reducing diesel use, which is our manufacturer's most important problem, and we're continuing to increase our work. In 2020, we're raising our budget to $40.3 billion, which we've divided into agriculture and forests. In this scope, we're saving $22 billion for agricultural support programmes, $5.1 billion for agricultural sector investment funds, agricultural loan subsidies, investment purchases, agricultural OSCE financing and export support. We're raising our resources for agricultural support programs to $22 billion, up by 36.7 per cent, according to their 2019 grants. Mr. President, good lawmakers, efforts are ongoing to submit all our energy resources to our nation's service by paying attention to the priority use of our national resources in order to meet the growing demand for energy without a problem. In this scope, we assess our local and renewable resources to a maximum extent in order to contribute to the use of energy with high efficiency, approximation of supply security and reducing the current deficit. We continue to fulfill our claim to become an energy base in the region by linking Asia to Europe with TANAP, which stretches from Caspian to Italy. Construction and production of the Turkish Media Project, which will provide natural gas for our country and Europe, has also been completed. Our ships Fatih and Yavuz continue drilling in the eastern Mediterranean. We'll open five more wells with our national ships in 2020 and continue to follow an active strategy for oil and gas exploration. Mr. President, we're transferring $44.5 billion from our budget for real-estate support. So we continue our growth strategy through the private sector in 2020, which we have significantly increased in real sectors over the past two years. We continue to give social security employer bonus benefits, which we all see as a positive result in growth and employment, the biggest share of real sector support. In this framework, we provide an employer's bonus of $25.3 billion, which should be paid to the Social Security Agency by our businesses in 2020. As part of our measures to revive the economy, we have earmarked $5 billion in the budget of 2020 under the loans provided by Treasury-backed bail. We aim to spend $3.8 billion on export funds to increase our exporter's competitiveness. We're raising the interest rate for agricultural loans by increasing by about 23 per cent to $4.2 billion, so that our companies operating in agriculture and livestock can afford the financing they need at a low cost. It's been one of the most important priorities of our tradesman's access to financing and lowering funding costs. In 2020, we earmarked $2.2 billion in interest support for trade loans that we would use through the People's Bank. We spend $1.4 billion on the COSGEB budget in order to ensure that our young entrepreneurs are supported by our young entrepreneurs, branding, institutionalization, digitalization, development of R&D activities, increase production capacity, and the added high technology is spread through the SMEs, reach a innovative and competitive structure. In our country, we have earmarked $1 billion in incentives from the budget of 2020 to be used through our Ministry of Industry and Technology to improve industry and increase production capacity. Our budget provides support for public and private sector RD spending, especially TUBITAK, while we contribute substantially to private sector RD investments through tax and other legislation regulations. For these purposes, we're saving about $5.5 billion in our budget for 2020. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we continue to produce, use, and work as much as we can, not only to consume technology, but to be a productive Turkey as part of digital Turkey's work. In this framework, more than 44 million users have been reached on the Digital Turkey platform as of December 9, 2019, and a total of 5,115 services belonging to 638 institutions and institutions. As part of our work on Zero Document Policy, the total 111 processes have been simplified, while the average number of documents per citizen's public service per service has been 3.8, while the average number of documents have been reduced to 0.34. Our goal here is to reduce it to zero. Mr. President, the increase in domestic savings is one of the key components of our government's economic policy within the framework of financing investments with safe and sustainable resources. We aim to ensure sustainable high growth through increasing domestic savings. One of the steps we've taken to this goal is the state-run contribution system in the individual pension system, which we're transitioning to as of 2013. In 2020, we predict that the state contribution from the budget will reach $5.1 billion as part of the individual pension system. Thus, by the end of 2020, the total state contribution from the budget would have reached $25.6 billion. Mr. President, we've made serious improvements in the financial and social rights of our public officials since the end of 2002, and we've raised their living standards and we'll continue to improve them. In October 2002-2019, our public officials' monthly and wages increased considerably over inflation. The lowest civil servant salary, including family aid allowance, was raised to $392 in December 2002, while in October 2019, the increase rose to $3,707 per cent. The average officer's salary, including a family allowance, was raised to $578 in December 2002, while in October 2019, the increase rose to $4,483, and increased to 676 per cent. The Mukhtar monthly amounted to $97 in December 2002, while in October 2019 it was raised to $2.027; the increase rate reached 1,982%. The security guards' wages were raised to $236 in December 2002, while in October 2019, they were raised to $2,162 euros; the rate of increase reached 815 percent. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the existence of a well-functioning judicial system in democracies is an indisputable need. It is also essential for social and economic development. As you know, the Judicial Reform Strategy Document was announced by Mr. President on May 30, 2019. The strategy document is prepared with a participatory understanding to ensure that social demands are met, that our citizens can receive effective and better quality justice at a reasonable time. Since its explanation, intense social interest in the document has shown that we are in the right direction. With the support of you valued members of our High Council, the first judicial package has been enforced in order to fulfill the goals predicted in the document. Many innovations have been brought into this package. Augmenting the guarantee of freedom of expression, providing maximum limits to the period of imprisonment in the course of investigation, bringing in entrance exams to the legal professions, bringing in new judicial and judicial procedures, and giving special stamped passports to lawyers are only some of these innovations. In 2020, we also aim to make our system stronger with new reform packages, and our determination is complete. Mr. President, we will continue to implement our entrepreneurial and humanitarian foreign policy based on being strong in the field and at the table with an approach focused on our national interests, peace and stability of our region and the world, prosperity and the presence of our people. The world is struggling with global instability, uncertainty, and serious trials. Human foreign policy and criticism of the global system's distortions have been reflected worldwide by the United Nations Security Council. The open-door policy against the human crisis in Syria has broken down the memorizations that we are taking on the world's oppressed under any circumstances. The Syrian issue remains on our agenda as one of the most vital foreign policy topics. The voluntary and safe return of asylum seekers in our country is possible only when Syria is restored to peace, trust, and stability. It is intended to address the security concerns of our country through Operation Peace Fountain, to free the people of the region from PKK, YPG/PYD and DEAS pressure, and to create the proper environment for Syrian refugees to return safely to their country, to contribute to the protection of Syrian territorial integrity. In this direction, we have cleared over 4,000 square miles of known terror and riveted our stand on the field with diplomatic moves. We have also secured the legitimacy of operations and recognition of the safe zone, provided with agreements with the United States and Russia. Our fight against terrorism in Operation Fountain of Peace will continue until terror is completely wiped out in this area. Once again, I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs and good and long lives to our veterans. Mr. President, a valuable lawmakers, another example of our firm stance in foreign policy is our country's uncompromising policy against the recent issue of sharing hydrocarbon sources in the Eastern Mediterranean. We demonstrate our determination in this regard, as well as our effective diplomatic initiatives, including our search activities in the field. We have linked the two shores to the bridge of friendship between the Memorandum of Covenant about the Restriction of Marine Authority Areas signed by Libya. This agreement, published in the Official Gazette yesterday following the approval of our President, was approved by the Libyan National Council of Covenant Presidents. Turkey will not make the slightest concession from its rights and interests in Cyprus, nor in the Aegean, nor in the Eastern Mediterranean. As our country is deeply affected by the uncertainty in the region, organizations such as the United Nations, the European Union and NATO have unfortunately failed to fulfill its responsibilities to Turkey. In spite of all that, under the leadership of our President, our state has become a powerful actor who knows how to cut its own belly, who has international influence. With our nation's total support, we continue to fight terrorism abroad and abroad. With the active, deterrent and prestigious qualities of our security forces and armed forces, we successfully eliminate the threat of terrorism by carrying out operations such as around the country and abroad. Traitors who think that they will flee abroad, like members of the CHP who betrayed the Turkish nation, cannot escape from answering to Turkish justice. Wherever they are, we will continue to find and bring them to justice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, there is a Turkey that acts not in the framework set by other countries, but in its own interests, winning both at the table and in the field. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) From now on, we will continue to implement our human-focused policies in our region and in the world, which our economies, our civilization, have pointed to us. We will continue to fight terrorism inland and abroad with determination. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have once again shown themselves in domestic and international operations in recent years, in which the development of our national defence industry has been such an important issue, for the sake of our national security. Projects carried out by our Defence Industry presidency in recent years will continue to contribute to the development of our army and security forces day after day. Our defence industry turnout was at $1 billion in 2002, while today it reached $8 billion, 760 million. Five Turkish companies are among the world's 100 largest defence industries as of this year. Our defense and aviation export reached $2 billion 188 million at the end of 2018. In the third quarter of 2019, we expect our exports to be at a record level by the end of the year, with an increase of 37.7 per cent compared to the previous year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our domestic attack helicopter, which has been delivered to our military and security forces abroad and abroad, has exceeded the number of ATAKESTs over 50, and our original general purpose helicopter, NEBEY, has also made its first flight. AS ANKA drones continue to operate, the AKINCI attack has begun test flights. Our high-use cargo drone, AKSUNGUR, will be ready for use by the end of this year. In addition, our national ship, the 4th of the Milgem, was assigned to the Navy during this year, while our domestic anti-ship missile, ATMACA Weapons System, was integrated into TCG Crimea. Our TCG Anatolian extraction ship has been lowered into the water. Our work on defence systems continues intensively. Our move to domestication and nationalization in the defence industry will continue to grow stronger during the budget period of 2020. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I would like to make a brief statement again about income policies and our practices. In the 2020-2022 period, we will conduct our public income policies in line with the aims of supporting growth, financing public spending, supporting development and income justice, boosting our economy's competitiveness and contributing to domestic savings. In response to the speculative courtship attacks that began in August 2018, the measures our government has taken in a proactive approach to income policies have played a vital role in resuscitation of the economy. At the beginning of these applications comes the equivalent mobile system, which is the ceiling price system for fuel products. If the price of fuel from oil prices or foreign currency rates increased, we kept pump sales at certain levels by reducing the amount of TV as much as this increase. In addition to reducing the price burden for our citizens and producers, we have contributed significantly to the downfall of inflation by giving up certain public revenues. In addition, in 2019, we gave a 25 per cent discount on the deed to further economic activity for a year. In the purchase of housing and some businesses, we reduced the VAT (the VAT) from 18 per cent to 8 per cent. We've reset the WTV in the purchase of white goods, reduced the VAT in the furniture from 18 to 8 percent. We've provided about 30 percent discount on car purchases, which will be implemented for the January-June period for six months. We dropped the VAT from 18 per cent to 1 per cent in commercial vehicle purchases. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as we support growing up with certain tax reductions without compromising budget discipline and disinflation process, we continue our efforts to increase the budget's revenue performance with permanent income resources and tax collection activities. In this framework, we predict a model of export-based technology based in harmony with our development goals. In this direction, we provided additional support for the manufacturing industry in 2019 for a model of growth based on high-increment value production, qualified employment and export. And in the coming period, we will establish the foundations of the structural transformation we envisioned in the economy by making arrangements to increase high-incremental production and exports to increase competition and efficiency throughout the economy. To do that, we're going to increase access to financing in the manufacturing industry. We will reduce the required collateral costs of the COBI people, and we will develop the Credit Guarantee Fund with industrial focus. We will implement arrangements for participation banking instruments and individual pension funds to invest in industrial projects. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, we're going to review all tax-spent regulations by handling tax incentives with all socioeconomic effects in the coming period. Simplify repeated incentives and supports and gradually remove the inactive. With the new regulations we put into practice, we will expand the tax base, strengthen the tax justice, and continue to increase the collection. We will also continue our efforts to simplify the tax legislation in order to make it simpler and more understandable, and to ensure that it will be simplified as well. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we have waged a planned fight to reduce the informal economy, reducing the employment rate from 52.1 per cent to 33.4 per cent in our governments during the period of 2002 as of the end of 2018. We have recently implemented very important regulations to support registered employment, to reduce labor costs and unemployment. We've set 18 months by extending the time of encouragement in women, young and disabled employment. We've made it possible for the year 2019 to be applied to $2,712 per person, with more support for those who will be employed in the manufacturing and IT sectors. In the 2018-2020s, we allowed the state to pay for all SGK bonuses and taxes, which should be paid for each worker's minimum wage, for 12 months. In addition to tax and premium support for $1,113 for insurance workers employed between February and April 2019, we provided $2.021 per month per person for three months. In 2019, we also continued our minimum wage support for reducing the burden of our employers since 2016. In this regard, we supported 150 lira per month and 101 lira in other workplaces at workplaces with under 500 employees. In 2019, we also continued the implementation of a 6-point discount in addition to a 5-point discount on SGK employers' premiums in the primary districts and districts. In this case, we supported between 281 lira per person per month and $1,113 per person. We pay the participants $2,021 per month for three months in business training programmes. We're implementing it as nine months in manufacturing and IT sectors, in areas such as six months, cyber security, coding. We provide child-care allowance for women with children between the ages of 2 and 5 who participate in business training programs in the manufacturing industry. Mr. President, our budget for central management in 2020 has been prepared in an environment in which our country faces geopolitical risks and threats, with financial fluctuations and trade wars at a global level. In the coming period, we will gradually separate the necessary resources, as in our budget for 2020, and continue our policies to grow in the budget and support our development goals, in order to achieve the goals set out in the 11th Development Plan and the New Economic Programme. We will use the advantages of the new government system to further increase the efficiency of public administration and public finance. The final goal of our budget in 2020 is to increase the welfare of our citizens and provide them with faster and more quality services. In the international sector, as in all the times of our government, our country remains an economic and political force in its region. We built the budget on a structure where we would not compromise fiscal discipline, public revenues would be increased, activities would be maintained in public spending and savings would be directed to productive areas. I thank Mr President for the vision, leadership and strong support he has provided during our work, to all of our ministries, including the President of Strategy and Budget and the Treasury and the Treasury and the Finance Ministry, who have contributed to the creation of budgets and final account law proposals; and to the executives and employees of our relevant, relevant public administrations. From October 24th to today, I give my thanks to all lawmakers who have contributed and supported the budget and final bill proposals in negotiations with the Plan and Budget Commission, particularly the President and members of the Commission. I'd like to thank you from the bottom of my heart, Mr. President and the members of the General Assembly for your contributions during the negotiations at the General Assembly. 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal wishes good luck to our country and to our nation.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit01spe0004par0119	Thank you, Mr. Oktay. Dear friends, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0004par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Members of parliament, budget talks will be held according to the programme, which has been pushed and distributed in accordance with the decision made in the 25th Union of the General Assembly, dated 3/12/2019. In the beginning, talks on the entire budget will be made to political party groups and, in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, an 80-minute commitment to conduct their views at will, and the time will be used by multiple speakers. Speaking on behalf of his subjects, the time will be ten minutes. I now read the names of all political party groups, executive and individuals on behalf of the entire budget: Deputy Leader of the Group on behalf of the People's Party Group and Mr. Lütfü Türkkan MP Mr. İsmail Tatekoglu; Deputy Chairs of the Group on behalf of the People's Party Group; Mr. Erkan Akçay and Sakary MP Mr. Mohammed Levent Bülbul; Co-Chairs İstanbul MP Mr. Pervin Buldan and Van MP Mr. Sezai Bekli on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Mr. Kemal Kemal Kılıç and İstanbul MP on behalf of the Party of Peoples's Party of Peoples' Party; Mr. Due to my approval and the fact that there is a consensus by groups, I will make a five-minute commitment to political party representatives represented by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey but without a group. On behalf of the Party of Workers of Turkey and İstanbul MP Mr. Erkan Baş; İstanbul MP Nazır Jiangir Islam; Democratic Party Chairman and Afyonkarahisar MP Mr. Gültekin Uysal and the leader of the Grand Union Party and Mr. Mustafa Desticil. On behalf of his personal behalf, İstanbul MP Mr. Erol Kaya; Vice President Fuat Oktay on behalf of the execution; on behalf of his personal behalf, İstanbul MP Erol Kadırcıoğlu. Now, on behalf of the group, the first word belongs to the group's deputy leader and the MP from Kopeeli, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0005par0013	Mr. President, of course, we have our eyes on the Justice and Development Party Group -- which has been here just now -- in 17 years of government, Mr. Binali Yıldırım is looking for the Vice President, but it's clear from how dysfunctional Parliament has been, even on the first day of budget negotiations. We're going to talk a little bit more about this in our further conversations.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0006par0014	They're here, too, Mr. President. They're coming now.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0005par0015	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on behalf of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Proposal and 2018 Central Management Computing Law Proposal, and I salute you all. We'll talk about the budget for 12 days. We're going to talk about the budget of the country he's been waiting for, wondering if our people who are struggling to make a living, who don't have a pot in their house, who can't afford to do anything. The founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, says: "A weak nation cannot escape poverty and poverty; a strong nation cannot attain civilization, development and happiness; it cannot escape social and political destruction. " In every civilization, the economy, politics, laws, education is interconnected; but in all these things, the economy is the most important, the foundation." This year, 63.5 billion liras were spent on investments, but were earmarked for $139 billion in debt interest. I said the same numbers at the beginning of my speech last year. At that time, $65 billion was spent on investments, and it was earmarked for $117 billion in debt interest, not debt interest, just debt interest, like the Galata loan sharks, the bankrupt merchant. And on top of that, the money you spent on investments last year is lower, and the debt interest is 22 billion dollars higher than last year. I'll give you just a few digits about our country: the hunger limit of a family of four is $2.103, poverty limit is $6,849, minimum wage is 2.020, average pension is 1,500. You've been talking about religious and conservative society for years. When you set the minimum wage, why don't you calculate it according to the amount of fitness that the dianet has explained? Either it doesn't suit you or your math is weak. Because you're replacing our citizens with animals that feed on bagels like seagulls. You compared the Turkish nation to Stalin's chicken. Most of our friends here know the story of Stalin's chicken. However, according to the number described by the Dianetin, one person's daily meal is $23, and that's $2.760 per month when we think about it for a family of four, and that's just so he doesn't starve. In these circumstances, you condemn people to hunger because the secret of your 17 years of power is to stay in power using hunger and poverty in Turkey. That's all the money you're paying for loans instead of spending on people's needs, investing in them. Turkey needs investment, you have to make this investment for our future generations, but you insist on not making these investments. In these circumstances, how do we leave a viable Turkey for future generations? Do our people deserve this? Isn't it a shame about all this? Now, answer me, shall we discuss the budget or the economy? I'm the one who knows the answer that comes through you, but you're afraid to say it. We'll see if you can fix the economy in 2020. I'm giving you economic figures here, and I'll give you more, and I hope you don't make me look like a terrorist. This hostile attitude towards freedom of expression, one of the highest values of democratic societies, is so meaningless, ugly, and unbecoming of a statesman's code, it certainly doesn't suit him. Besides, you're the one terrorizing the economy. As to why you terrorized it, you once misbuttoned the first button. Once the first button is buttoned wrong, the rest of the buttons are buttoned wrong. What happens when you button the wrong button in the economy? You'll end up like the Argentine economy, manipulating inflation for a long time, playing with numbers on paper. He said, perhaps for hope, that maybe his advisors kept the facts from him, but Mr. President said we'd grow five percent in 2020. I told you, when the button is buttoned wrong, the rest feels wrong. Let it not be forgotten that the economic data of a country is the integrity of that country at the same time. You, now, are going to do your entire account on 5% growth, and because of this far-fetched figure, you're not going to be able to achieve any goals, and you're going to be more open in the budget than you think. What will be the result? We'll get poorer, we'll have to borrow more. Because of your inconsistencies in foreign policy, you will find no debt due to your suspension of law, justice, democracy, and if you find it, you will find it on loan interest, as you do now. The interest will only make the economy more difficult, and you'll cause tax terrorism. With the bread in the lion's mouth, you'll make the lion need bread. Think twice about accusing those who speak the economic truth as terrorists. Unfortunately, no measures, any additional taxes you bring, will be the answer to economic problems. Don't I want to grow five percent? I'd like it more than any of you, and I'd be proud if you could do that, but I'm afraid the foot of the goose isn't. In 2020, our GDP will be $4.8 trillion, and our budget will be about 22 percent of that money, which is $1.1 trillion, and the amount of income you estimate will be 956 billion. Last year, you failed to meet the estimated budget deficit; you predicted about 80 billion dollars for the budget deficit, but in the New Economic Programme you announced, you expressed the budget deficit as $125 billion. According to the IMF, it's $165 billion, and there's still a hiding place. And this year you're predicting $139 billion. I wonder how you're going to get the numbers from the 2020 budget with your inconsistencies. And there's no spare money in the Federal Reserve this year, so there's no money left in the Federal Reserve. Even in your predictions, we are at the limits of the Maastricht Criters. It's not that hard to predict that at the slightest surprise, you'll rise above it. You will not be able to remove a rabbit from the hat to cover this gap; either you will be in debt or you will increase tax rates, product and service prices. So, you're going to make our nation poorer, you're going to make it even poorer, and social problems are going to increase beyond control in 2020. Why can't it be controlled? Because the year 2020 won't pass by like it did in 2008, the great depression in the world's economies, and the tsunami that it created, unfortunately, will hit us as well. Unfortunately, I'm saying that because our country economy is out there, all of our production is based on imports, so we can't be affected by the fire in the world. So, what does all this mean? The fact that next year in 2019, the painting will become heavier, that our import-based production will be narrowed down, that when the industrial wheels stop, bankruptcy and unemployment will increase, with increasing poverty and poverty, buying power and consumption will fall, so the increase in tax revenues will not be caught. You still can't accept the fact that the taxes you bring can't solve economic problems, because you spend so much more than your income, you run the government too expensive. Sometimes it sounds like small expenses, but as American statesman Benjamin Franklin said, don't lose sight of small expenses, sometimes a small hole sinks a whole ship. Instead of cutting spending, you're smothering the tax-laden citizen, inventing new taxes. Some of the taxes you bring in are in other countries, but those countries have a lot of buying power, so they can spend people comfortably. Our people can't even go to their village in the summer. It's at least 3,000 lira for a family of four to come and go to their village. What would this citizen do? Put it on a credit card? You want the banks to use their red summer credits to go deeper into debt? If there is, should he cash his lady's bracelets? I'm ashamed for my country. In what we call yesterday's Demirperde country, an ordinary worker takes a week off at the five-star hotel in Antalya, and my citizen can't find enough money to fill the ECBIL. It's a very good example of where they came from and where we came from. To the Turkish nation, that's what you call it. You set up an agency called the Tourism Development Agency, and I don't know what this agency is going to do, and it's going to raise some serious money. I'm looking at who this agency is based on, like Fettah Tamince; he's the only man you can find for this agency. You're out of human resources, you're out of human resources, just like you're out of money at the Central Bank. There was no refrigerator before us. You can use a lie like that in political language. And I want you to have two words about that. We've brought taxes on the zengine. You said, "You actually shot the white collars." You raised the tax rate from 35 per cent to 40 per cent. Who are these people? What's left of the middle post you destroyed, the actual spending, the actual VAT collection. You undermined the consumption of these people in order to collect a few cents more, and in fact, you have indirectly hit the tradesman. If you wanted to collect taxes from the rich, you would increase the percentage of a profit margin from his company. Then you'd say, "We've brought taxes to the rich." If you want to get more from the rich, less from the poor, remove the tax cut from the minimum wage, let him breathe minimum wage. A state that boasts about spending 40 billion dollars to the Syrians should not need taxes from people under the age of hunger; one of them is wrong. If you're able to play around enough to spend 40 billion dollars, you won't get a tax on minimum wage. But the fact that you're hiding from people is that you've brought these taxes not to get more from the rich, less from the poor, but to get the budget deficit, to cover the budget of the non-designed passenger, the non-existent patient, the non-existent vehicle. I wish it was just to cover the budget. What I don't understand is that since you've almost put the country on top of you, the country has fallen on you, when will you be satisfied? I wonder when you'll get up from that table, saying, "Alhamdulillah." Say, "We are so full." Say, "You have fallen on the backs of the people, and you have fallen into the state, and the poor have fallen into poverty, and you have not yet been satisfied." So when you came to power, did you sit at the table with your followers and share Turkey with yourself, friends, or create your own capital in order to stay in power, while the Qadi was ours, the same kadu, and you thought about it? All you cared about was feeding your followers, and all you could do was borrow from the outside. Guys, I swear to God, snap out of it. Just as in the Lale Age, even if you find a debt, this country does not have the luxury of spending on unnecessary projects, unnecessary expenses. Look, the biggest danger for governments like us is falling into an external debt helix. That was the most important reason for the collapse of the Ottoman Empire. That's why the Department of Publicity was established in 1881. That's what government executives should know in the first place. Today, no matter what state, if he's borrowing money from another state, he's agreed to take orders in advance. It's not as easy to get rid of those debts as it's supposed to be. Remember, as debt rose, Ottoman Empire's dispersal process was accelerated, and we were left with only seven and one of the Ottomans. Turkey's economic situation must be taken very seriously, my friends. I don't think you guys take this seriously enough. And I'm inspired to say that if you go with this head, if you don't take it seriously, Turkey may face a recent state of mind similar to that of the Ottoman Empire. God forbid, it's too dangerous. You're going to ask me if the conditions of that period are the same, but... if you can't feed people in Turkey, you can't govern Turkey either. Don't forget that you fed this nation $10 a pound of onions and potatoes, which the Germans raised in a flowerpot so as not to starve in World War II. You left nothing for sale under the name privatisation, and you threw the goods into this piggy bank, which you call the Presence Fund. Why? Because since you know there's nothing left in the palm of your hand, your only collateral is the asset fund you're going to mortgage, that's all. This period's Dream Fund is also the Entity Fund. In the 19th century, they seized the income of the state, and now you have sold away 80 million of our citizens to foreigners, and you put them in front of the imperialists. Weren't you the one who wanted to run Turkey like a company? Unfortunately, here you are, screwing up that company, standing before us as executives of a corrupt company. As such, you have made Turkey the most expensive living country in the world. You want samples? Look, we have pensioners in this country who have been forced to get paid under the minimum wage. The fatigue of their age aside from seeing the beauty of our country, they're grateful for the days they've spent without hunger; pensioners who will have to feel the harshest of winters because they can't pay their rent, their gas bills. Those who are experiencing these difficulties are only retired citizens you remember during the election. And there are those who don't have pensions, who don't have pensions, who have been in the palace, who have been trying to get the government to hear their voices for months, but can't get them to accept their demands. The national and domestic understanding, which tells the Syrians that it spends $40 billion, considers their own children refugees in its own country. In the House, you rejected all the motions we brought in on this matter. You've even prevented yourself from investigating what conditions are necessary to resolve this issue and how much it will cost the budget. I wonder, are you really national and native? AS A GOOD PARTY, we will continue to address the problems of our citizens of YIT, and we will maintain their righteous struggles, and we will certainly solve their problems in the first time we come to power. Rest assured, it is not difficult to improve the living conditions of our pensioners and to address the problems of pensioners. Turkey has enough power and potential to overcome its structural problems, as long as the resources are well used. You're already aware that resources are not being used properly. When I look at the situation where you dropped the Republic of Turkey -- from foreign policy to security, economy, the collapse of the state mechanism -- I think of the last period of Seljucians. What was the last term? With economic and political negativity and confusion, the public was burdened with heavy taxes, which led to the process of dissolution of the Seljucian state. The famous Veziri of the Great Seljucians, the great statesman Nizamülmülmuk, will probably have seen some facts, which, with his knowledge and opinion, he wrote to the statesmen, which was always a lesson. He should be our Vice President who should be listening to this most of all. I'd like to remind you of one of the seven advices that Nizamülmülk gave for the state's stay in the Political Code, and that's how they'll know what a beka is, and so will you. Nizamümülmülmülk says in the Political Code: "The state is a great blessing that will not be easy for anyone. Whoever has it must know that he has a great burden in the Hereafter. Instead of spending the state's goods for the state while it's at hand, stacking the earth, I repeat again:...he must prepare for the afterlife instead of hoarding the world. It is clear that while he is living in extreme comfort, a government man, whose people are suffering from poverty, is awaiting a difficult reckoning. Woe to others, if even God Omar is afraid of this torment! What good counsel! If you're going to leave with the shroud, I suggest you leave like this. You're using resources to yourself and your followers. If it weren't for the source, you wouldn't be paying rent to city hospitals for 25 years, putting about 40 billion dollars on people's backs. I thought you said there was no source. There is no EYT. There is no officer waiting for 3,600 additional indicators, no teachers waiting for the appointment, but there is a source on the sign for city hospitals, which are actually private hospitals, which are the Ministry of Health. There are no pensioners, but there are contractors who are committed to carrying 4 million passengers and can't get past about 200,000 passengers. Like Canal Istanbul, you're funding an ecological project that will destroy Istanbul, a balloon project like Zafer Airport, but you can't afford a production economy that will stimulate the real sector, boost employment. Since you can't get a breathing tax from people who don't work, you have to create jobs for these people, because no matter how much you hide it, Turkey's biggest problem in 2020 -- it's going to be the unemployment problem that's going to search for wax today. The unemployment problem brings with it social problems. I've been a Alderman for 25 years, I've been an industrialist. I know very well what production is, vaccines, jobs, livelihoods, how our people are struggling with this. Do you remember the father who burned himself because he couldn't buy pants for his son, the Ismail Revolution? Why should I live if I can't buy my child a pair of pants? It was one of the easiest cities in the world to work in. As congressmen, we were the most comfortable people to find solutions for those who applied for the job. We don't want to get on the phone right now, as all the Kobeeli MPs who are here because we can't solve a human matter like this. If that's the case, think about what happened in cities that did not have the means to do so. People are in debt, and we owe it to our people. Look, consumer loans and credit card loans to banks and financing companies increased by 51 billion dollars from 1 January to 22 November 2019, breaking the record at $569.5 billion. The 4 billion liras of this increase only took place in this last week, and in the last week, the nation's debt has increased by $4 billion. The consumer's credit and credit card debt, which was monitored, increased by $2.9 billion, and became $2.6.6 billion as of November 22, 2019. Because of consumer credit and credit card debts, the interest in the banking system has also reached 64 billion liras in the first ten months. Do you know how much interest the banks paid between October 2003 and October 2019, just a year after you came to power? 511 billion liras. As of November 26th, the loans, which were monitored for not being paid in time, reached 142 billion liras and set a new record. You really keep setting records in the economy. At a time when the loan stock increased by 8.2%, the rise in bankrupt loans reached 52 per cent. The total ratio of bankrupt loans to loans is 5.5 per cent. It's the way this painting shows our nation's screwed up, this nation's screwed up. Every day, we witness the suffering of our unemployed people, our debtors. People end their lives, mass killings start, family deaths start, stoves go out. I mean, I don't want to mention your name here, but with a toxic substance, people are poisoning themselves. Stop banning him, it's not about that, it's not about cyanide. People don't get along, even if they work, they don't get along, they don't have hope, they don't have tomorrow's expectations. Let's go to Sunday in İzmir. The man she said was going to take a shower. She goes into the bathroom and kills herself. Do you remember Ali Bluto? Ali Kabasakal, let's go to his wife's Sunday. After his word, he goes into the bathroom and takes his life. He has no money, so he has to lie to his wife, shoots himself with a shotgun, commits suicide. I don't have any money. He can't tell his wife, he's only got $1.5 in his pocket. Please, have an empathy; we have friends who are married, friends who have children; I have no money for a man's wife. There's nothing more cruel than saying, "I can't take it to your children." There's nothing you can do to that man as much as he tells you. People are so desperate. You draw as many pink paintings as you want here, you can't escape the truth. These facts, all of them, are actually your creations. Recently, our people have stopped fighting and fighting and been driven to suicide as a result of their economic crisis. This painting is actually an embarrassment to all of us. Since we've become a country that can't bring peace and prosperity to our own citizens, we need to face this reality, find a solution. How many more people do you expect to take our lives to do something? If you want to do something and you can't do it, then you can't run this country well. Then it's time for you to hand over the mission. I suggest you stop running this country that you can't run and step aside. Sultan Mehmet Khan of Fatih has a saying: "Do you pray and pray to people, or do you fast? You will not ask the questions of God. He says, "Are you hungry, what do you need? Do you have a problem?" Do you ever ask our people if they are hungry? No. Have you been to prayer? Have you been to Hajj? There's not much talk about zakat, he's getting my attention, there's no mention of zakat. There's not a lot of people who want to pay for it. I've never heard of alms being passed, and no one's talking, but there's a lot of questions about the others. As you mock it, as our citizen explains that inflation is 9 percent, he sees that almost everything goes up by half when he goes to the market, that the electricity bill, the gas bill goes up, that he can't bring the end of the month, not even the middle of the month. When you see the officer, with a 33% increase in pensions, 4 per cent, the citizen is surprised at what he will do when he sees that the increase in rent is higher than the increase in salary, and that his costs are higher than last year, and that he is poorer than he was last year. The citizen has hope, actually. The citizen's hope is that you will leave power as soon as possible, and he is his only hope. You know very well that if there was an election today, you wouldn't be able to get out of that crate as a ruling party, and because you know that, you're stalling people. The citizen is aware that you will not find a solution to unemployment, that you will not fight poverty and poverty, and that you will also feed here. You put democracy on hold, the state of law is down, there's almost no trust in the judiciary, people are calling justice from Twitter. Since there is no judicial system to go to when something happens to him, let me write it down to Twitter, and perhaps there will be a solution. This is the system of justice and judgment in Turkey, but you're always right when you look at it; no matter who speaks the truth, you're always holding on to the lies of traitors, terrorists, fucking terrorists, foreign forces, the game of beka, and you're doing it with all your media power, twisting and bending all the facts, perception operations. You've turned the Republic of Turkey, which has thousands of years of state tradition, into a tribal state. By ignoring the state boards, you took the state out of its people, along with the palace bureaucracy, led by fellow sergeant relations. That's why we're going to speak from this stand so you can hear screams and screams that you haven't heard, and we're going to keep bringing them. So let's look at the numbers that you can't say where they're coming from in 17 years: in 2002, the price of gasoline is $1.62, and today it's almost $7. At minimum wage, 17 grams of gold was taken, and in 2002, you can only get seven grams of gold today by finishing the change. Do you know how much a 50-pound sack of flour costs 18 liras in 2002 today? $168. When you came to power, the most expensive bread in Turkey was $1 a kilo, now about $6. I'm not saying it's because the real economy runs through the pot in the citizen's house, the invoice, the bread he eats. But when you're done, our exports have come to about 165 billion dollars in the last seven years, and our national income has come to $10,000, but we've made our way, and we've built bridges. You're blocking your ears with these cries. You're about to take the world's 17th largest economy out of the top 20. As for $10,000 a person, I wonder where this $10,000 is, for God's sake. There's Orhan Klançsoy in our karam. Brother, I have three children. There are five of us. If the Minister is there, say hello. He'll give me my $50,000 in the beginning of the year. I swear to God, I won't make a sound at all. Orhan Swordçsoy expects $50,000 from you. If there are 10,000 dollars, send them to us. I don't say a word, I spend this year with my master's children. The real economy runs through the pot that people boil in their homes, but we made the road. Tell me about the decline in food spending, the downsizing of people's throats, so that they can be on the screens, at least, as much place in the public's cry for Osman Ocalan, we don't want much more, we don't want more, give Osman Ocalan as much room for the people's cries. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I see you don't have a real proposal for unemployment in your budget program or the Presidential Strategy Document 2020, or rather, you don't intend to solve it. Look, average unemployment in 2018 was 10.4 percent, average unemployment in 2019 was 13.8 percent, so unemployment increased by 33 percent. In 2018, the average number of unemployed was 3 million, 339, and the average number of unemployed in 2019 was 4,45,000; in short, the number of unemployed has increased by 1,150,000 in the last year. Is there a hero marquee around here? He made a lot of promises, he wasn't there.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0007par0035	Oh, yeah!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0005par0036	Ali's here. This number corresponds to the total population of our Kahramanmarash province. You don't rule poverty, you run this country with poverty. Yeah, well, bottom line is, you don't manage poverty, you run the country through poverty. It's become your style, your way of ruling. If you really wanted to solve poverty, you wouldn't ignore the fertile land of Anatolia, a factory that would improve the country in the short term. The first way for the country to develop in the short term is through agriculture. Because no matter how much subsidies, incentives, taxes, and investment ease you bring in, there's no way industry and industry are going to get up in no time, I'm sorry to say, there isn't. Given the new economic developments in the world, including the fact that developing economies are running out of breath, we can re-enhancing our country with agriculture, among other things. This would reduce our country's dependency on the outside and become a self-sufficient country and provide employment in its place. In 1970, the total employment rate of agricultural employment was 65 per cent, while the rate was 7 per cent today. Given the large monopoly of agricultural companies, the oppressed farmer, both the manufacturer earns less and consumer food is expensive. I mean, we run our country on the outside. Everyone thinks the most important department of the American Embassy is the Political Undersecretary, right? No. From here on out, the most important unit of the American Embassy is the Agricultural Advisory. In Turkey, in the last 17 years -- and in the years before that -- unfortunately, there is -- but in the last 17 years, there has been -- there has been a greater obligation to agriculture -- to interfere with every law that has been passed by the US Agricultural Counsellor, and, on one occasion, he is involved in the interests of his own country. The most influential lobby in Turkey is the Ministry of Agriculture; the Ministry of Agriculture can't do anything without US consent. What we experience from seeds to medicine to imports of agricultural products can never be a coincidence, and it would be naive to think otherwise. It's kind of sad, isn't it? For thousands of years, we must re-enact this enormous factory, the Anatolian, which has fed dozens of civilizations, but unfortunately, the government has no realistic and constructive policy on this matter. Don't argue otherwise, because you haven't even paid 2018 calf support bonuses for our manufacturers; they're running out of 2019. How will the manufacturer, who can't feed himself, pay for almost twice as much food, feed the animals? Because of your agricultural policies, we're also addicted to animalism. It's not that people eat a lot of meat. Don't get me wrong. People eat a lot of meat, so we import it. No. The livestock is over, the animal population in Turkey is low, so we're bringing in decent cattle from Serbia and bringing in decent cattle from Serbia. If you can't produce it, if you can't win it, you can't even pay for it and import it if your budget goes like this. That's where poverty and poverty begin. So it can't be a coincidence that we're dependent on agriculture and animalism; it's best that our Minister of Agriculture, who, at the time, became a representative of one of the world's global food gangs, knows that. Dear friends, we've always boasted that we can afford ourselves in agriculture; in primary school, we used to say that Turkey is one of seven self-sufficient countries in the world. Unfortunately, you believed that growth and development would happen with the economy of construction and concrete, not with the agricultural economy, but with the economy of concrete. This attitude of yours has reached the level of agricultural collapse, as you have failed to make the support for agricultural production in accordance with the conditions of the day and can't provide solutions to the growing costs of our farmer every day. Look, the Netherlands, which is as big as our city of Conium, has become more productive than we are. We pour concrete on our most fertile land, and we continue to pour. For example, what reason is it to build an airport on the first-class farmland of the Dukurova Regional Airport, which is intended to be made to Tarsus? That's what I want to ask you. On the one hand, we're developing projects for the preservation of areas of agriculture. You'll say, on the other hand, on the first-class farmland -- over 7,000 acres -- you'll build an airport -- would that be such a contradiction, would that be a contrast? When you hit the ground digging, don't you feel sorry for yourself when you're doing this torture on that land that's gushing out of abundance? And it's a concrete example of your lack of leadership, the changing of the contractor firm over and over again, and the disbanding of those lands. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important problems in the country's economy is the off-the-book economy you can't get rid of. According to the comparison between the countries, Turkey is at the world's first time with 28.72 per cent of the informal economy's informal domestic product. Mr. President just told us where we are in the informal economy, the real number is here; we are ranked first with 28.72 per cent in the OECD report. It's above even the world-famous Mexicans in smuggling activities. Mexico's behind us again, and we set another record there. In recent days, the warning of TÜSIAAD was remarkable. We need to be aware that unemployment and our foreign debt rate are at levels we have never encountered before. TÜSIAD also proposed a solution, pointing to democracy for a way out of the crisis; it pointed to democracy, which you never liked, disliked, which seemed foreign to you. The fact that the institutional structure of the new system has not been established yet after the parliamentary system has been switched from the presidency system slows us down to the solution of structural problems, he said. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I repeat here once again: it is clear that if you do not return to the restored parliamentary system immediately, we will not be able to distance ourselves from the solution of structural reforms, but we will have these problems increasing. I don't need to tell you what my conversation has been about, the basis of the negative picture that we're in, but I'll tell you anyway. A referendum on 16 April 2017 called the implementation of a number of regulations that would radically change our constitutional system is the new system of government. Remember what happened to the Central Bank, one of the most fundamental assets of our republic, in what we call the one-man system. In 2012, you made Murat Çetinkaya, who had not even studied economics, the Vice President of the Central Bank Law, and appointed him President in 2016. As if the administrative decisions taken by this victim were not enough damage to the institution, you dismissed the president with a decree because he did not obey your word. The summation of your economic management is actually the Central Bank, not to mention the rest. You made a man who was not trained in economics first, then you made him vice president, and then it didn't take our word for it. You called him and suspended him with a decree. You've destroyed the reputation of the Central Bank and made the country an unreliable country in the eyes of foreign capital and international investors. It's been about five hundred days since the system took effect today. In the past five hundred days, short, medium-term programmes and packages have been publicly announced by the president and ministers in many different topics. It turns out that the results of these plans have not been achieved. In these five hundred days, the presidential government system, the plan, the program that was impossible to do, the institutions that had been solved, the legislation, the administration, the judiciary, the jurisprudence, became intertwined. The point, as a result of all programs being put into practice in 500 days, can be summed up as follows: 15 per cent per cent per national product, 13.4% per national income decreases in these five hundred days.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0008par0047	Mr. Turkkan, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0005par0048	I'm putting it together, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. According to estimates, the Turkish economy will be ranked number 17 at the end of the year by the end of the year, when the government's government takes office. Although inflation has decreased somewhat since last year's rise, Turkey is still the highest inflationary country since Argentina, which has had the largest economic resection of OECD countries. In these five hundred days, Turkish lira has lost 23 per cent against dollars, and the rate of foreign currency deposits has risen from 44 per cent to 52 per cent. Despite all measures being taken, all arrangements have been made, foreign currency deposits remain at the top of republic's history. The number of registered unemployed in the country has increased by 40.3 per cent, while the total number of unemployed has increased by 8 million to 130 countries. The increase in the number of young unemployed has been even worse, and according to official records, one out of four people are unemployed, and the number of young unemployed has increased by 515 thousand in the last year to 2,800,000. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One page to go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0009par0052	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0005par0053	Thank you. In the last 12 months prior to the presidential government system, the budget deficit between July and June 2018 was 68 billion dollars, while the budget deficit between November 2018 and October 2019 was $111 billion. All of these figures show one thing: there is no response to the presidential government system or the economy administration. THE GOOD PARTI is a notorious political party to govern the state by sticking to the undivisable integrity of the Turkish state and the principles of the state of the Republic of Turkey established by Ataturk. We will dominate the improved parliamentary system, the rule of law, the inter-human balance and control mechanism, and we will build a society with the pluralistic democracy and integrity that Turkey needs to build a society dominated by individual rights and freedoms, expression and freedom of the press. With good PARTI power, the economy of consumption and waste will end, Turkey will prioritize the real sector and agricultural production to the production economy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Away from our goals; away from the peasant, the farmer, the industrialist, the laborer, the pensioner, the old man, the student, any plan that can make him happy, and to this budget completely free of truth, I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit02spe0010par0060	Thank you. Dear friends, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0010par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. Now, the second speaker on behalf of the Good PARTI Group is Mr. Ismail Tatüoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0011par0007	Mr. President, honored members of our Parliament, valued parliamentarians, we stand before the High Council and our beloved nation to share the views of our party on the budget of 2020 and its final account of 2018. I salute you all. First of all, I want to emphasize that there are really different structures in parliament, such as opposition and power. Opposition, of course, is expected to be constructive, but the real constructive is expected of power, the building of power is important. This carelessness is not going to get us anywhere on this day of budget negotiations. Today, the presidential budget has also shown the level and line of the presidential government system. Mr. President didn't happen here today, Mr. Vice President did, but Mr. Ministers and the President had to be directly connected because we're using the budget rights. Budget rights are an old right from Parliament; budget rights are a right that dates back to contracts in the Magna Carta, before Magna Carta, in Kutadgu Bilig, and may be in older texts; budget rights are the basis of democratic regimes, and this is the second budget of the republic's 97 Τ budget, the presidency's government system. This budget we're talking about is a social, economic and drinking action plan as much as it is political. We're going to make a decision on this plan. Budget talks are basically general talks, and today we will discuss the 2020 budget within the scope of general talks. Very valuable lawmakers, we have 2020 budgets ahead of us today. With this budget, the presidency is asking us today to spend a trillion and 96 billion dollars. They say: "Give us the authority to spend 1 trillion 96 billion dollars for 2020." We have a revenue of $957 billion, and with that we predict a $139 billion deficit in this budget. We're essentially setting up the elements that will be offered to the community in this budget process by saying "yes" or "no." In fact, that's government, except there's no government. To rule is to run a budget and to make a budget. For him, the rulers and the rulers should be here today as a courtesy. Look, we don't even have a vice president. Yes, now, of course we don't come to this House under oath. The applications will show that we call what we find positive, yes, and what we don't find positive, we say no. That's what we did last year, and we discussed this budget under certain criteria. So we looked at the economic ground where the budget sits, and then we looked at the references of the people who run the budget, and we looked at the references of the people who made this budget, and we made a decision based on it. Now, we're going to do this review again in this frame, but first of all, when numbers stop telling the truth, hope leaves the face, leaves the smile. I met an engineer in Germany who passed by on November 9, 1989, on the day of the fall of the Berlin Wall, and I said to an engineer who was there: "What was the situation?" He said to me: "We are always ahead of us. They always told us that we were 20 years away until we saw this wall come down on November 9, 1989, and we always believed that we were 20 years away. Turns out this wall was in our heads. These numbers were in our heads. Now, let me start by saying that if the growth of 5.7 is real, then this is 8,800-9. We need to explain the $5,000. TÜİK, mashallah, like a flooded nursing home, there's no way to separate how much milk is water. You're going to say, "What if that's the official number?" It happens, sir. Look, I want to offer you a table: Argentina -- below the blue -- after 2006, the official inflation rate always goes at 10 percent, but the actual inflation goes at 25 percent. Therefore, because of such circumstances, the Argentine economy today, unfortunately, is far away from the world. Now, in this sense, Turkey has not really moved to this geography, and its neighbors are not new neighbors, they are not new tenants. Turkey, a country that continued the spirit of time, raised its population from 28 million to 82 million, raised its rate of reading from 30 percent in the 1960s to 90, then to 96; Turkey came as a country that built 28,000 schools from 1960 to 1980, and had 53 thousand schools in 1980, increased its university, increased its number of 1,000 vehicles. In the meantime, let's look at the economy: Turkey, between 1960 and 2019, highly valued lawmakers, averaged 4.5 grown, and the point of this 4.5 is 8,800-9 today. $ 000. Turkey has grown 5.5 per cent from 1960 to 1975 -- these are the numbers approved by TÜİK. If Turkey had kept this up, our national income would be $18,000 today. If we had raised one point as Turkey, 6.5, Turkey would be a rich country today with $30,000. It's not hard to sail on that kind of wealth, it goes through stable growth and quality growth. Yes, Turkey also grew seriously between 2003 and 2007, growing 6.8, but TÜİK grew 7.3 in the new series. It's a bright period, and it comes to $10,500. It's a success. The reforms after the 2001 crisis and the process of the European Union and its anchor, Turkey, moved here. There's a star Turkey. Between 2008-19: Turkey began to break its development after 2008, a negative dissolution began, and Turkey, unfortunately, with its development after 2008, was negatively separated from its own line and developing countries -- in its own line -- and this dissolution has deepened over the last five years. Look, from 1960 to 2020, let's divide it into five years, 12 five years. The number of growths between 2016-2020 and the last five years is 3.3 if we accept the growth of the budget in 2020. What's the last five years of 12 five years? Not the first three, friends, but the 11th. The last five years of growth performance is better than 2.5 percent between 1976 and 1980. You're going to say, "What if it says 5 percent?" We're going to make the growth of 5 percent, and we're taking it up to 3.7. When we raise the last five years of growth to 3.7, the last five years of growth don't go into 3 percent of the 12 years since 1960; it's better than the growth between 1991 and 1995. So, how about a round of applause? Let's just say that this is the budget that the owners of this performance have brought in, so let's just keep it that way, shall we? Not at all. Is that the way to use this community's budget? Consider the developing countries. Indeed, there is a great storm, rising in developing countries from 2003 to 2007. It's just a little under there, but it's trending, Turkey. But Turkey is also disseminating negatively with developing countries starting from 2008. The growth of developing countries in the last five years has been 4.4; Turkey is below here. And over the last two years, with the budget figures of this presidential government system -- with this year -- 1.5 average; 1.6. That doesn't get us very far. Turkey is separating with the world economy and its own line. This period has been economically in the way of Turkey since 2008. That's what it's called. Whether we get unemployment, ten years, five years, top of history, there's no need to argue. How can we grow 5.7 percent and not expand employment in this frame? It's a cat and a liver thing, isn't it? What is this negative dissolution? It's a, yes, poor growth. There are many technical reasons, but what is more? We can't give the owners of this photo a new budget. We talked about global elements. Look, the total GDP rate of Turkey's 2002 foreign debt is 58 per cent. Today? 62%. This is our Turkey. Just as we rejoice in 2007, we want to rejoice in it, and what matters is that it's not a photograph, it's not a scene. It's a process, it's going like this. Our reserves have the same ratio to our short-term debts. From 2008, there's a Turkey going wild, dear friends. We were always talking from 2000 to 2010: South Korea and China crossed us. True, but we have countries together in 2000: Poland, Romania, Malaysia, Eastern Europe and Far East countries. They beat us to it, guys. Look, Romania came from $1,662 in 2000 to $13,000. These are the World Bank figures. Poland came from $4,400 to $15,900. Malaysia came from $4,300 to $11,000. So the two of us who were together in 2000 outweighed us. Because we're in a negative dissolution. So we are 17th in 2000, 17th in 2008, but 19th today. We're 70 percent per million income per year, we're 65, we're 81 in 2008, we're 65, we're 81 in 2019. This is the source of the World Bank. My dear friends, this shows that history is falling behind the times. This is not a quarter century ago. Before, you were falling behind when you stopped; now, when we slow down, we fall behind. The reason for this is that Turkey left structural reforms after 2008, and what we're getting today is not just an economic blockage, but a structural blockage that includes the economy. We can solve this with structural reform. So, what you're going to say is, why couldn't Turkey do structural reforms after 2008, where did it spend its energy? Why couldn't Turkey continue this way? There are three fractures, my friends, and while we were waiting for structural reform, we had radical fractures. The first, unfortunately, is the process and the 2010 referendum. The 2010 referendum is the entrapment of our nation. The second is the solution process that deals with the PKK. The third is our foreign policy that ignores our historical codes and is the Middle East process. Turkey has again entered the vortex of corruption, poverty and bans. The late Dündar Taşer had declared that we were in a state of humiliation. He referred to us as "Aziziz." He wrote a note about Osmanlı: "The Kadızadeli did not understand Islam, nor did the Europeans understand the West. So we've come from 25 million square miles to the coast of Sakarya. This is where, from 2008, non-recognising the geography, geography, and the age. It's clear, it's clear. We've wasted our energy around here. Otherwise, we're always very close to a rising Turkey and a strong Turkey. Why? Because we have everything this country needs to be strong Turkey. It'll be like this today, it'll be like this tomorrow, it'll be like this yesterday. It's a matter of code... Very valuable lawmakers, very valuable friends, we've seen a lot of plans up to this budget -- medium-term plans, new economic programmes, development plans. More than 20 per cent of the plans brought by those who made this budget. So at the point of making a budget with the references of those who make this budget, there's a huge distance from implementing a budget-making point with goals. Where's Turkey? We've come to the government that can't plan without planning to run the government. Yes, that's where Turkey is coming from. They had 2023 targets, we were talking here last year, and so did our Vice President. Can you imagine, in March of 2019, the office where Mr. Erdoğan is located has elections, 2023 targets are written down, and there are 11th Development Plans in this building, and we're throwing out targets. There's so much indiscriminateness, miscommunication, so much infraction, and the 2023 targets that we've been chasing here for eight years have suddenly been trashed by Mr. Oktay, Mr. Ministers, on March 31st. We'll celebrate 2023 as the 100th anniversary of our republic, hopefully, but in terms of economic goals of this administration, the year of garbage is, unfortunately, like this, the year of garbage. So $25,000 per million per million dollars per million, $2 trillion per million per million per million, $500 billion exports; they're written but not at the heart of politics; they're in writing, they're not in language. Why? Foreign conquest in Syria; Interior PKK for court; National Defence for tenzil and promotion; Economics for loans, construction support; Transport contractor organisation; Environment Ministry for Bodrum Each horse runs in a different direction, there's no other description, so there's no distance. There's energy, there's spending, but there's no way out. This job is now 2053, 2071... young people call it "2071" and older people call it "2053"; they're targets. Either I die or the king dies. The horse dies. The story has turned into this. Now we've made the words meaningless. In all these ministries, there's only one ministry that measures the impact of what it does on the economy, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. I'm not just criticizing these thrills, there's a lot to criticize, but I'm not. The only ministry to write about the impact of spending on the economy is the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure; no one else has anything to do with spending or budgeting. There's no such thought. If there were, the government would be here today. Because this budget is the government's budget. (Applause from good parties) That's what people are going to do to those who bring in this budget. Dear friends, now, we brought you the 2019 budget last year, and we're going to grow up 2.3. We said, "We can't grow up." We said 80.6 billion deficits, 200 or so billion IMF definitions, so let's say we're 165, it's 100.4 percent bigger. Here last year, the revenue budget for this 2019 budget would not be so cut if the Austrians and the Australians made the spending budget. I told you, here in the square, the costs are up 22 per cent, the revenues are up 6 per cent. The public community forced the Maastricht Criters to say hello to Turkey again, and another major structural problem has arisen. At this point, the Turkish economy has been severely injured. Now, this is where we see the 2019 budget. Well, fellas, wouldn't this budget, every budget, have a political consequence? Now, did the 2019 budget shrink the economy? It's smaller, isn't it? It was 2.3; it reduced 0.25. Did it increase unemployment? He raised it. Has the public disturbed its balance? He broke it. Did it increase poverty? He raised it. Now, are we gonna clap for this? Well, won't anyone be embarrassed by this budget? Won't anyone be bothered? Won't someone come out and say, "I'm in charge and I'm out?" If the family had money, the father would have taken it off. Isn't that the result of the budget? Isn't failure a consequence? Look, we're off the market. What does the automotive industry say? It says: "The Turkish tax system is not compatible, it is behind the age, and we have fallen into the 11th market of Europe in the automobile. " Anyway, spending is like this, friends, the spending policy is that we know how to pay, but it's getting government-wide now. The government's expenses are covered, so the Treasury-central Bank relations, the Treasury-Central Bank-public bank relations are covered. The black puzzle is easier than these. The Entity Fund is a world, the President's in charge of a fund, so come check it out. Come on, let's check it out together. Now, dear fellow lawmakers, we have a new budget. This budget requires us to spend $1 trillion and 96 billion. I just told you, I'm going to grow five percent. There will be 11.8 unemployment and I will do a new balancing in Turkey. Now, the peasant walks, and the man waits at the head of one village, and he asks him, "How long will it take to get down to Belen village?" The citizen standing at the head of the village is silent, and the other one is angry. A few minutes later, he screams, saying: "You go down to Belen village in 45 minutes." He turns around and says: "Why didn't you tell me just now?" he says, "I saw you walking." [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, fellas, would this march be approved? I mean, is that allowed to take all these walks? Is there no responsibility for that in the sight of the people and in the sight of God? Let me tell you something more serious, this budget has no vision, where will this budget take Turkey? Where does this budget go? There's no mission. Is this budget an industrialization budget? An increase in employment budget? Agriculture development budget? Is that the budget to fix the revenue distribution? None of them. And what budget? Abdulhak Molla (Abdulhak Hamit (his grandfather) has a famous verse, which we will write at the beginning of this budget: whatever you look for is beyond trouble. (PARPS) We have to write at the beginning of this budget: There is really everything, there is no cure for trouble. Dear lawmakers, our EC PARTY group was really more crowded on the commission than that, and we thank the friends who came for it from time to time. I've considered the budgets of Internal Affairs, Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of State together. The Ministry of National Defence demands 53 billion, the Interior Ministry demands a total of 77 billion, and the State Department demands $6 billion. Why did I judge it together? All three of them share a common theme of terrorism. As I listened to him, I went to the 90s. I said it there, on the Commission. Now, dear friends, Turkey hasn't just moved to this geography. We're telling you now, let me tell you about Turkey: October 9, 1988, when the Army Commander of the Age goes to Reyhanlı and extends his hand to Syria, don't carry our patience. He says: "We heard this word from a minister every day after 2000" and Abdullah Ocalan doesn't exist in Syria, Greece, 20 days later. He can't stay there in the evening, he goes to Russia on the same day, he can't live here. On November 12th in Italy, he cannot live there either. On January 16th, Russia is not there again, and again in Greece 13 days later. Belarus and the Netherlands are asked for a residence permit, which is not available, and on January 5th, they are taken from Kenya and placed in Imran. Look, the state of the Republic of Turkey had the dignity of the Republic of Turkey, which would have no country in this world.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0012par0037	It's not like you didn't live then.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0013par0038	They have kidnapped Solomon Shah. They have kidnapped Solomon Shah.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0014par0039	Tell us what's in this, so we'll know.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0015par0040	We knew about you in Istanbul, but you've come this far. Welcome.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0014par0041	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0015par0042	Welcome. We thought you had a statue there. Welcome. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Well, the PKK is equal to PYD. I don't want to get into any of this, because it's kind of nice, but it's like we've seen the reflections of Putin's meeting with Moscow, both at the White House, and at the NATO meeting, of the people who run politics, of the people who use different languages. Dear friends, let me continue again. On August 15, 1984, we had a PKK struggle that began with the Şırnak raid, and unfortunately, in 2002, Turkey had brought terror to a place, but we found a Turkey talking about the same terror in the Plan Budget Commission. Such matters are expected to include the building of power, the building of opposition, the gathering of the state. On October 7, 2019, we witnessed Trump's letter of insult. In the morning of October 8th, Mr. Coral Akşener told the Turkish public that he had rejected this letter, that we were with our Mehmetchik, and that our party's name today is the national flag party. One day later, on October 9th, Operation Peace Fountain began, and on October 10th, Mr. Erdoğan invited us all to join the AK PARTI. So basically, that's when we realized what we lost on April 16, 2017. It's hard not to think that we've lost the head of our government, that we've lost a position that embraces everyone at a difficult time. Call it what you want, but it's pretty obvious there's a problem here. Zamandar, let's look at the Justice Department. On November 6, 2014, Abdulhamit Gul is not the Minister:, says Abdulhamit Bey on November 6, 2014. Now he wants a $19.7 billion grant. We'll give this money to the courts, close the Ministry. The Justiceless Ministry shouldn't need that kind of money. We think that if we give our judges their salaries through personnel and lock the door to our Ministry, our society will bring justice to a much better place on its own. Respected lawmakers, agriculture is the most talked about issue, and it's really becoming a problem. We have a 40.3 billion-dollar grant demand. With 35,000 of the Forestry Ministry, we're talking about an Agricultural Ministry with 150,000 available. In 2002, the agricultural sector owes $2.6 billion, producing $37 billion. The production has increased by six times, the debt of the agricultural sector has increased by 45 times. Look, imagine a Department of Agriculture that doesn't have inventory. That means there's no right number for how many potatoes to produce, which is why he can't manage potatoes and onions. So how many fruits there are in Turkey, how many citruses there are, it's technically impossible to calculate that because the Minister of Agriculture doesn't have that inventory. And he ended up in two and a half million families. Today agriculture has become as technical as textiles, not as much agriculture as we know it. Basically, agriculture needs technical staff. Take 1.5 million of the 2.5 million families; buy large companies, medium-sized businesses; we need 2 million technical agricultural workers, a degree in agricultural technical high school. In this framework, if Turkey opens agricultural vocational high schools and graduates fifty thousand a year, it only meets that need in fifty years, in 50 years. Is there a place to give such a budget to a Minister of Agriculture who can't see so many deficits? Now, we went to Adana. I'd like the Minister to go to the Ministry, see what the trade exchange is like, what the trading room is like, what the farmers' troops are like there at least. We went to Adana, the Adanan farmers gathered together, they saw this problem, and they opened an agricultural Anadolu vocational high school with the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey in Sarıçam district. It says: "We have looked, there are 35 students at the end of the semester. What happened to him? Why are there 35 students? It turns out the high schools are not hiring from other districts, they are not getting students." Look how ready our Ministry of National Education is, Turkey! How well our Department of Agriculture is aware of this! We are building an agricultural high school for Adana, and we cannot open it to the disciples of Adana; we do not know it, we do not see it, we do not see it, we do not follow it, there is no such thing in the integrity of the state. When they ask the National Ministry of Education, why are these 35 students? They say, "Sir, we can't get students from anywhere outside the district of Sarıçam, that's our law." And we're unfortunately far behind our farmer, our industrialist, we're far behind our people, we're far behind in all that. Think of a Mush, dear friends -- I don't know if there's an MP -- 1,670,000 acres of Mush; watermelon grows, melon grows, grapes grow, Karasu and Murat pass through these lands. Do we know how many times, my friends, is Turkey in national income? Third from the end. Gee, we want geography to be our destiny, our destiny, our destiny. If this geography were our destiny, the leaders of this country, the political leadership, we'd have this regional stability, the rule of law, and shut down our shops, the political shop, and in ten years, we'd find this country a rich country. Nothing! That's the potential of this country, but the rule of law... what is the rule of law? The rule of law is in the name of progress. Nothing happens unless you do it. It's the gateway to civilization, the supreme rule of law. We think the world is dark when we close our eyes. Here, I heard Mr. Oktay say the world is negative. The world is a better world than yesterday, not a negative one. The world can't walk if we can't. The world is a world that has ramped from 30 trillion to 90 to 100 trillion trillion. There's talk of young billionaires in the world now. Look, today, integration with the world is not about opening up to the world, selling goods, it's over; integration into global data flow is about being connected to the world. It's a factor in your development that has previously made public spending... that the countries no longer need the resources they used to have. Now, little by little, the mines don't even make any money, we live in another world where wealth moves to the East. Let alone Korea, Taiwan, everyone, all the countries, have plans of 2023. Look, Ireland says $91,000 for 2023. China says $13,700. So each Chinese, 1.4 billion Chinese, each richer than each of 82 million Turks. How do you raise the hand of China when you put it on a subject? I am ashamed and very sorry, once again stressing that Mr. Erdogan said that he was comfortable for the Uygur Turks in China. This shouldn't have happened, at least we should have kept quiet. China's power should not have been enough for us to say so. Very dear friends, in this whole frame, Turkey has to change its political climate. With a new climate, Turkey will soon reach a strong Turkey with a new political climate, which brings the democratic, rule of law and makes Europe Europe European, and puts the concept of economic geography at the center of all policies and puts the concept of development at the center of all policies.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0016par0053	Mr. Tastyoglu, I'll give you an additional minute.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0015par0054	This Turkey has everything it needs to be a strong country. Our beloved nation and this country also have the will to do so, and it will have the will to do so. Turkey is no longer able to resolve these problems without embracing a new climate, it is not possible to go with this budget, but it is very possible for Turkey to be among the competing countries of the 21st century. In Turkey, there are these positions, and as political leadership, our main role is to clear the way for that. All of you, my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0016par0057	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker is Deputy Director of the Group and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay. Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0017par0062	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we begin negotiations with the budget bill for 2020 and the final bill proposal for 2018 years. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute our beloved citizens and your honored delegation. Starting with my words, our beautiful country, Turkey, our beloved ancestors, the founder of our republic, the great commander and statesman of the Turkish nation, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our heroic martyrs who have fallen to the ground for the sake of our country, the founder of our party, Basbug. We now congratulate our security forces, who have achieved epic successes in fighting terrorism across the border and abroad, and we entrust each one to God. The terms of the budget talks in Turkey are burdened with an intense and difficult agenda; the fight against terrorism, the economic attacks to bring our country to its knees, the threats aimed at our backs in foreign policy, the military operations we conduct for the safety of our borders are a few issues on the agenda. In this complex environment, Turkey is moving straight ahead in a right and right line. Dear MPs, as the National Movement Party in the budget talks, we will discuss how much of the people's money will be used in the service of the nation, not in the other service, but in the Turkish nation. In budget talks, the subject of our politics is the people, the object is the state, the burden is the law and democracy, and the sentence is the nation. First, we will act on the principle of my country and nation. We're going to bring up the problems of our shopkeeper, our farmer, our worker, our officer, our industrialist, our pensioner, our young people, all of our social areas. We'll talk about education, family, health, agriculture, industry, energy policies. We will defend our historical interests and sovereignty rights. We will monitor budget talks patiently, meticulously, carefully, in the General Assembly, as in the Commission. We're going to share our thoughts with democratic maturity, comprehensive preparation and non-pollemics, objective and realistic presentations. In our minds and hearts, we will act with our nation's responsibility to build tomorrows with the ideal of Turkey, because our love is Turkey, our sedan is the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, in our view, politics is meant to resolve the issues of the country by acting in a democratic race and competition, and to walk together to the national and great goals. Politics should never be a prisoner of administrative maslahism, epochism, populism, cheap politics. Getting caught in the whirlpool of daily political strife takes politics out of a democratic race, politics becomes a fight zone, and it turns into a blind fight. It's not politics to build polemics, make demagogues, deal with gossip, slander, encourage polarization, discrimination, encourage and incitement, to rely on the interests of foreign countries, illegal organisations, ▪, PKK, policy, and hope for political gains. As these attitudes do no good to anyone, our country and our nation suffer the greatest damage. According to our understanding, a politician should not rub hands to draw Turkey into risk and uncertainty for the sake of political Rant, nor drink water from the bottomless wells. There should be no special effort to move the internal turmoil of crisis, social turmoil and conflict countries to Turkey. No politician can ambush Turkey to push Turkey into the abyss with his delusion that there is no life and property security in Turkey and that it cannot be invested. While Turkey is making operations on its vital and beka scale, Turkey cannot have an understanding of registering, occupying, accusing Turkey of the analogy of a pirate state, framing its own state, its government, its country, its country, complaining to foreigners, arsoning. With terrorist organizations, there's no such thing as an al-tac-tac-tac-tac-tac-tac-tac-tac. He cannot become an altar to Turkey in national matters. He can't be held captive by foreign capitals. We reject and curse such politics. As the National Movement Party, we act on our principles, not conjunctural. We haven't been involved in anything that's not in the best interest of the nation, and we won't be. As before, we will continue to contribute to the government's efforts in this way. The National Movement Party's primitive, responsible, problem-solving and honest political stance will continue its fight without compromise, without allowing the Cumhur Alliance to question and wear out. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We will not forget any of our promises, we will not break any of our promises. Dear lawmakers, budgetary rights are the cause of parliaments. The financial and economic aspects of the state are defined by the budget. The budget brings the state and citizens together in the economic, social, financial and political plane. Budget rights are the first condition of a state's democratic quality, one of the tools to oversee government through parliament. The presidency, the executive body of the budget, prepares it, submits it to parliament, and becomes law in parliament. In the parliamentary system, the formation of legislatures and executive bodies from the same political party or coalitions was a necessity to live. As a result, both organs had to defend the same financial policies in order for the system to function. The presidential government system has eliminated this obligation. The legislative body will be obliged to draw up its own expectations, its own opinions in the budget, so the administration will feel compelled to draft a much more careful, detailed and practical budget. Parliament also has the right to analyse the budget and make changes if necessary. It is possible that parliament will be able to study the budget and access the data and documents on the budget in time and time. The government's ability to manage budgets in accordance with Law 5018 will also eliminate information asymmetry between legislation and execution. Therefore, increasing the capacity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey over the budget will be one step that will strengthen Parliament's budget rights. It would be appropriate to establish the budget office within the Plan and Budget Commission and expand the Court's task and capacity to provide financial advice. One of the steps in the budget process to increase parliament's legislative competencies is the integration of residency commissions into the budget process. For example, the State Department budget should be available in the Foreign Commission, where the Justice Ministry budget should be discussed by the Justice Commission. Congressmans, the events we've had in recent years show us that statehood is a matter of assets for the Turkish nation. From July 15th, our only safe place against PKK terrorism, asymmetrical economic attacks, and dangers to our sovereignty is the state, the Republic of Turkey. In Turkish, the term "state" refers to deep sociocultural meanings beyond being a legal and political term. The state is the superior no, the highest chemal is the greatest happiness. A state is a union, a blessing. Without the state, the nation's political, military, economic power, the imagination of civilization is invalid. And that's why it can't be considered to be starved for one second in the functioning of the state, to be weak for one reason or another, to be threatened by its existence. The rest of the nation and the state can never be neglected. Today, the Turkish state government feeds on thousands of years of Turkish history. This idea has been heroically defended, led many of his children to testify, and has been a subject of all our cultural motifs, benzene, epics. Our nation has always taken care of its home and its stove, and even more, its state. At times, he ran from the front to the front with his shoes on, sometimes barefoot; his country, his people, his state, without blinking. We know that nations, without a government and without an army, will be crushed underfoot. In Turkish state philosophy, the country of Redelma has been subject to names such as "the state of wisdom" for a period of time. All these concepts are shaped around tradition, around law. So much so that the most important thing that connects the state from the province to the period of time and finally to the republic is, without a doubt, the law. It is the rule and continuation of the ceremony, the rule of law that has constantly made the history of Turkish state philosophy a whole two thousand and two hundred years old. Let man live so that the state may live, so that the nation may live. His understanding is the expression of consciousness. O Turk, tremble and return to yourself. Who can destroy your province and your ceremony unless the top blue sky falls, and the bottom is cut open? The call and the call is always echoed in our memory and consciousness. Reverend lawmakers, management systems are built with facts and facts, not theories. The presidential government is said to have never written in any constitutional book. This view is an argument that ignores that the management systems are a dynamic field that lives and thrives with society, which is an aristocratic, crippled logic. The presidential government system doesn't have a theory. What theory is needed in the face of people's truth? If you're looking for the references and approval of a Westerner, or a Westerner, to give this domestic and national model what they deserve, don't worry, those days are coming. In addition, the government's government system, which has been coined as a rhyme to defame and discredit the government's government, is the definition of a constitutional change in terms of a single man's regime, unrealistic, absurd, and self-inflicted expression. At the time when Turkey's buildup of democracy merges with the facts and needs of our country, the presidential government system is on the agenda. This model represents the consolidation and constraint of statesmen both within themselves and against each other. The system was built on three sacs: national state, strong power, democratic stability. In this respect, the presidential government system has aimed at stability in governance, justice in representation, and this goal has been achieved. Our state's dirness, our nation's unity, our country's integrity is the guarantee of our future and our future. The Republic's success is the will and future of the Republic, the government ideal of the Turkish nation from history to the 21st century; its goal is the strong state, the strong nation, the strong parliament, the strong judiciary and strong Turkey. Turkey has been ruled by the Presidential government system for 17 months since 9 July 2018. The transitional stage was extremely compatible. There were no tensions, disturbances, or crises during the creation of the government in the old system. Following the election, the President quickly established his cabinet and focused on the main issues of the country's agenda. The system operates in a healthy manner, within the framework of democratic institutions and rules. With the new government system, permanent stability, political stability has been achieved, quick and efficient action has become systematic, the road to safe and peaceful Turkey has been built. The presidential government system has become the equivalent of a whole new political life, as well as its new and solid origins, as well as its innovation in its original political ideas and understandings, as well as carrying the Turkish nation with a secure and text future. This system has made it easier to make effective, fast, adaptive, and accurate decisions regarding national security, foreign policy and economics. Turkey has responded more strongly to all threats and attacks in the process of continuing our country's invasion plan, launched by a traitorous coup attempt on July 15th, with a significant and major success in the fight against terrorism. With their break-in operations, terror is wiped out. A hundred-year imperial terrorist state project has been thrown away by the Firat Shield, the Olive branch, the Fountain of Peace and Operation Claw. With the system's rapid and efficient decision-making mechanism, economic policies, transformation and transformation process are more coordinated. Although Turkey has been exposed to the largest economic attacks in its history, it has gained considerable distance from the interest-kur-inflation helix. In order to achieve a major breakthrough with the new system and achieve predicted goals, measures for structural problems must be taken quickly. Of course, it wasn't easy to come to these days, but Turkish democracy was interrupted at various times by coups, deposits and probate initiatives. The governance crises are largely due to the uncertainty of relations between the governing bodies, the confusion of authority and responsibility, and we have seen this a lot as government crises. Dear MPs, the presidential government system has emerged as a pluralist model in the majority democracy, which operates the braking-dung mechanism based on the principle of separation of forces. Of course, the first step in pluralism is to build a separation of forces. On the other hand, we need to count the control authority of parliament, such as the possibility of an alliance with the electoral system, among the tools that ensure pluralism and reconciliation in the majority model of democracy. Parliament's distribution of seats is also an important indicator of the construction of pluralism. Today, there are nine political parties, five party groups and four independent MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. This distribution of seats in parliament shows that representation in our 100th-century Parliament is based on the broadest social areas. On June 24, 2018, 95 percent of the votes of our citizens are represented in Parliament, which is the highest representation in our history. Parliament's arithmetic also strengthens control mechanisms. Congressmans, the first condition of being a nation and a state is to live in territorial integrity. Without our state's integrity, our country's unity, our nation's unity, freedom, democracy, prosperity and development, you can't provide human rights, first and foremost, security. Therefore, the fight against terrorism is our most sensitive subject, a multidimensional struggle. While fighting terrorism in the field, the state must also be fought and fought in civil society, public life, politics, culture, art, media and education. If one of them is missing, the ultimate success cannot be achieved unless terror is stopped from collecting power, base and interest from this area, funding terrorism. That's why they're fighting all the elements and the financial resources of terror that support and speak for them. That's why no state-owned organization or terrorist organization that our nation has built and operated by the sweat of its own will be given a place for any terrorist organization or supporter. To those who make a fuss about democracy, freedom, human rights in every field, I say that our state is not helpless, and that no matter what anyone says, it will continue with determination and terror will surely be eradicated. As it is known, on the evening of July 15, 2016, the collected agents attempted an invasion of Turkey on the whim of a coup. The Turkish nation fought an epic battle with 251 martyrs, 2,194 veterans. The assassin of imperialism, the hired agent, has been disbanded. The Turkish nation has claimed power and future by blood, by soul, by faith. For many years, the fight against the state and society, which has systematically infiltrated its life as an octopus, has not ended on the evening of July 15th; an intense and decisive fight is being waged in areas such as the Armed Forces, Police, bureaucracy, the business world, education, civil society, the judiciary and the media. The results will also be appreciated in this fight against political, legal, diplomatic and security vehicles. We will continue to support the steps taken to eradicate the Turkish nation, which is a matter of beka and honor. It is similar to the third form of gas, which has no color or smell, but it is very poisonous and sneaky, it has diapers in every comb, it enters every mold. The environment of such organisations, the roots and branches they cling to, should also be analyzed, not tolerate any structure that gnaws at our government from the inside. The strategic state concept must continue to fight. Another part of the fight against terrorism is the fight against PKK/PD. This struggle continues successfully, both domestically and across the border, with all military, administrative and forensic vehicles. Turkey is struggling with its own and other supporters in civil society, political structure and media. Through our southern borders, terror sites and dens are being destroyed, terrorists are being neutralized. In this direction, the Firat Shield, Operation Olive Branch and Peace Fountains took place in Syria; Operation Claws was signed in Iraq; the goal is to establish Turkey's security. With cross-border operations, Turkey is establishing its national security while fighting terrorist organisations, and on the other hand, eliminating threats towards the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries, fulfilling its obligations to international peace and security. In particular, our determination to emphasise the Peace Fountain was a set against imperialist projects. Foreign forces, which have no other purpose in the region than political and economic interests, have appeared one after another with threats. But we're right and we're strong. We showed our determination regardless of threats. With the United States and the agreements signed with Russia, we also accepted our rights to seven heifers. Right now, everyone acknowledges that this organisation is not just a threat to Turkey, but also to all countries in the region, especially Syria. In this case, it is now the responsibility of the international community to fight terrorist organizations that threaten Syria's territorial integrity. The countries who are entitled to speak about Syria today, especially the United States, Russia and Iran, should take attitudes to destroy Syrian territorial integrity and terrorist organisations, and must see Turkey's cross-border operations in this framework and surely support them. Another dimension of the fight against terrorism is the fight against DEASH. Turkey is the only country in the world that has ever fought the DEAŞ most effectively and successfully in the context of both the field and social and financial resources. It is possible, Mr. President, that in foreign policy, there is independence and national sovereignty, the establishment of a sovereign political field independent of social, economic and political forces and the recognition and respect of sovereignty in this area are internationally recognised and respected. The concrete indicator of independent foreign policy is to be strong in the field and at the table. Today, Turkey has been decisive in foreign policy, on the field and on the table. Success in the field in Operation Fountain of Peace was a powerful way for us to sit at the table. With these moves, Turkey protects and strengthens its national interests; Turkey becomes a territorial state in its region. Consolidation represents the power and authority of the responsibility to collect and collect. The presence of constructive politics and dignity in this task is insufficient, although it is consolidating -- its ability -- to establish consent. Reza is a reflection of power, and power is your presence in the field. Turkey has established the role of the state with regional and global consent built by its power in the field and at the table. We must act in accordance with the logic of history and geography in foreign policy; we must continue independent foreign policy, depending on the thousands of years of Turkish state tradition, national culture, foreign policy experience. Despite all positive developments in bilateral relations, we have to be suspicious and alert and also intelligent and assertive. Turkey is successfully fighting the subsidiaries of imperialist countries across the border and across the border, while on the other hand, it is dealing with refugee crises; on the one hand, it is trying to carry out our national interests in international institutions, which it is a member of. Our foreign policy as the National Movement Party is based on a multidimensional basis that also considers historical, social and cultural elements, based on the fact that Turkey is a powerful country with a long and long-standing state tradition. By turning our country and geography into strategic power, holding on to the East, the West, with the other will be the greatest response to those who want to squeeze Turkey into international policy. The international policy of the 21st century compels fast and effective diplomacy, a strong government behind national will. There is a close link between foreign policy and government management systems. In the world's conjunctural foreign policy, countries are usually involved in two types of issues that concern them: you are either condemned or dominated by issues. Turkey has passed from prison relations to judicial relations, which has been achieved by improving and strengthening the management system. The presidency has powered Turkey's power with the government system. The Republic of Turkey has become a more tidy state with this system. I'm proud to say that Turkey is more effective and decisive in foreign policy with this system. In recent years, we've achieved significant foreign policy gains. Let us not forget that we are now a country that determines the bed of water in our region and in international politics, setting the bed of water in the middle of the water; it is undoubtedly due to a foreign policy administration that has been able to make sure that the opportunities and opportunities that come with this new system are right and timely, in good time, and in a strong way. We have to underline two things here. First, we are now able to act effectively and quickly in foreign policy. The second was the division of political responsibility in the former government model. When it comes to foreign policy, the political system works effectively, and political stability in domestic policy is positively reflected in foreign policy. Behind our foreign policy is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has strong representation, along with strong national will and executive and national will. Dear lawmakers, in the past three and a half years, we've had difficult times in the economy, and we've been subjected to economic operations in the continuation of July 15th. Especially in the last two years, we've faced attacks that we haven't seen before. As a financial and economic war has been waged against Turkey in 2000 and 2001, so today we pass the same days and times. The games of the crisis apostles have haunted us since then. They came with weapons of love, they threatened foreign trade, they played with the markets, and they coveted the food in our nation's throats; we did not give up, nor were we destroyed. The subcontractors, local collaborators, were not ashamed to declare Turkey a non-investigative, non-investigative country, but our nation did not honor it. Now everyone realizes that in unity and unity, Turkey is a country that protects its rights and interests with all its material spiritual power, and has gained psychological superiority over all crisis crises. We're acting with the awareness that seeking help from the crisis is a betrayal of Turkey. We have no choice but to show the same national and collective reaction to the threat and sneaky operations of global traders and robbers. Of course, we cannot close our eyes to problems in Turkey's economy; we will discuss structural problems, reforms, and we need to talk. We'll discuss macroeconomic problems from unemployment to debt, agriculture to industry, interest to inflation. But remember, when an avalanche falls into the economy, there is no one who will be exempt from this avalanche. The origin of the word "Economis" means "housework" as a word. So we're saying that we need to start mobilising the national economy and focus on production. It is a necessity to implement structural reforms aimed at building the production economy. Our nation's future can't be handed over to hot money wrecks, rant lobbys, labor thieves. We need to have the economy that's producing, developing, planning investment and consumption measures in rational thresholds, powering from their own dynamics and sustaining their national and spiritual properties. The economy must be based on national savings and national resources. The economy must be saved from debt and debt, from wastefulness. We need to bring our industry, science and technology to an advanced level fast. The problem of employment must be resolved, and agriculture and animalism must be strengthened. His employee, pensioner, officer must be brought to a peaceful and secure economic environment. It is necessary to fight poverty with steps to improve the distribution of revenues and eliminate inequality. This area is not only a human wish, but also the conditions for sustainable economic growth and stable democracy. A pensioner, a worker, a farmer, a tradesman should be allowed to get more shares from the growing economy. There's no point in numbers growing unless people grow up. Members of parliament, national culture is an area that tends to disappear between the dense elements of the agenda, but is a sign of a national identity from yesterday to tomorrow. The ability of a nation to maintain its own identity depends on the creation and existence of a national cultural consciousness in individuals. In addition to the rise of technological and social prosperity, our presence in powerful and prosperous countries will be possible by maintaining and taking it further by maintaining our national culture. Today, the way to overcome the depressions of our country, to live as a great nation and a great state, is to be established on the national cultural axis of our national unity and integrity. Art is the most efficient way to process national culture. Art becomes an identity and a way of life with nationality. A culture that doesn't feed on art is doomed to extinction. In all areas of art, unique works of nationalism must be encouraged. In our sense of art, we must apply the Grandpa Kork style; in addition to entertainment, an art based on knowledge, participation, interrogation, cultural roots, which represents the depth of folklore; in this way, with all the resources of modern technology, we must work with all the arts; many countries do it. Our culture must be equipped according to the needs of the 21st century, with works of art that take its origin from our cultural fountains. Members of parliament, in Turkey's defence, in its foreign policy and in the fight against terrorism, in the effort to block our country from cross-border operations, are the first anti-weapons and equipment sales to be blocked by states that have been surrounded for years. We understand the importance of the national defence industry once again every day. The defence force is one of the most important factors in a nation's life as an independent, powerful, prosperous country. Turkey has made significant progress in this area. The locality rate in our defence industry has reached 70 percent. In the success of counterterrorism and cross-border operations, domestic weapons and equipment are clearly important. Turkey's security will be strengthened by our local and national defence industry, as well as the heroism and sacrifice of our Mehmetchik. Our goal is 100 percent domestic production, and we will achieve that goal. Honourable MPs, we're building the great and powerful Turkey. We're going to dig the foundation of this building, we're going to go up the pier, we're going to move stones because this country is ours, we're all living in this nest. We will ride upon injustice, injustice, injustice, economic woes, cultural corruption, beca threats. We will tirelessly clean up all obstacles for the beautiful tomorrows of the Turkish nation, without looking back. We will rule morality, virtue, knowledge, science, production, labor, respect, and love. We must adopt a way of fighting like our Salvation War. Until then, in classical war doctrines, the line defenses, the battle for position, the armies retreated from the position they had lost and another judge settled on the hill. There's no defence, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no defense, there's no He said, "The sale is the whole country." And he turned the national struggle into a myth of total resistance and heroism. And today we're going to build a total sales defense against the enemy, not with his rifle, subcontractors, collaborators, economic weapons, cultural imperialism, alienation and corruption fairs. History invites the Turkish nation to rise again. This is the case of the people of the world, asking the oppressor for his wife. Our call is to peace, prosperity, peace, solidarity; our call is to Turkish pride and consciousness, to Islam's morality and virtue, to war with poverty, to race with justice, to unity, to brotherhood, to the path of truth, to the path of truth; our call is to the language, to the consensus, to the union. Long live Turkey! May you live forever, Turkish nation! [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] As I end my speech, I wish that the budget of 2020 would bring blessings for our country, and I salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0018par0101	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker, Deputy Director of the Group, and Mr. Muhammad Levent Nightingale of Sakarya. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0019par0106	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party over the 2020 Central Management Budget Law and the 2018 Central Management Act Proposal. I salute your grand delegation and the mighty Turkish nation. Mr. President, the proposed budget law we're discussing is the 97th and 2nd budget of the Republic of Turkey's government system. As the National Movement Party, we would like to say that we support the 2nd budget of the presidential government system, which has made significant contributions to its emergence. The state of the Republic of Turkey, ruled by the government system from 9 July 2018, soon faced serious issues that would affect our country, our region, and even the world, and produced fast and effective solutions to the problems it faced. The actions of our state, acting on the axis of national policies, have also been met by our nation, supported by great humility. Our government has made its transition to the new system smoothly and continues to do so. Of course, no government system can be expected to be perfect and complete at the moment it's being implemented, but praise be to God, the presidential government system began to yield results as soon as it was implemented. After the elections on June 24, 2018, the president's oath formed and began his work without any chapter. The post-election government debates, political crises, and attempts to block possible democracy, which we're used to in the previous system, have become a thing of history. With national issues that concern the security and independence of our country, proactive solutions and effective measures were created by the government against global economic attacks on our country right after the June 24th elections. The impact and accuracy of these measures can be much better understood today. Of course, the opportunities and abilities that the executive has gained by the presidential government system have played an important role in taking positions against these problems and attacks. The July 15th treasonous coup attempt is an unprecedented and unprecedented attack on Turkey's back. The Turkish state had no idea that one day the Turkish nation would be attacked by its own army, its planes, its helicopters, its tanks, and its weapons, that 251 martyrs and 2.196 citizens would be injured; this, in this respect, is an unprecedented betrayal. Until July 15th, our country has decided to destroy terrorism at its source, and has achieved a great success in fighting the Kurdistan Workers' Party/PKK/PYD, DEAŞ, CHP terror organizations in the country, with the Battle of the River Shield, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain and the Claw Movements across the border. While Turkey was fighting a relentless battle, the attacks were not limited, but in August 2018, the economy of our country was tried to collapse by foreign-source attacks on our financial system. In the process, Turkey has suffered serious financial damage. Fortunately, the economic attacks we face have been severely eliminated by our government's accurate steps and explained economic programmes. In the past, economic crises as a result of such major economic attacks have become a government crisis and have made major political changes in our country. The focus that carried out the attack was the same way in Turkey that they had planned political and social chaos, but this time our government has left the desires of the chaos traders in successful moves by taking faster and more effective measures with the resources provided by the new government system. Although the state of the Republic of Turkey faces many negativitys, its high support from its citizens has increased its determination to become an undisputed, untestable state in the international community, with a high reputation, a decisive state in its region. While Turkey remains financially fragile in its current situation, it is understood that it has entered a process of positive developments. The economic data, which were inverted in a moment by economic attacks, soon began to balance, with positive changes in currency, interest and inflation figures. Inflation rose to 25.2 per cent in October 2018, to 10.6 per cent in November 2019. The interest has been reduced by 10 points in four months. Those who said in 2018 that Turkey had gone to an economic chasm with the IMF, that it could not survive the crisis without the agreement with the IMF, and that Turkey could not become herself financially without a constitutional amendment to change the presidency's administration system, are unable to find a say against it today. The IMF, OECD, the World Bank, the European Union Commission and international credit rating agencies had to revised their assessments of Turkey in a positive way; 2020-2021 corrected growth projections at 3.1 per cent to 4 per cent, saying the Turkish economy would be significantly smaller in 2019. It is confirmed by international organisations where Turkey entered a rapid recovery process during the year 2019 and left the difficult and difficult days behind. The Economic Trust Index has increased in this process, and the Real Kesim Trust Index has risen to 105.9 in November and has reached the highest level since May 2018. As the National Movement Party, we consider Turkey's economic struggle to be part of our fight. In this sense, we would like to say that we are with our government and our government against any operations against Turkey, that we support any steps that might help our people to address their economic problems, increase their prosperity. Mr. President, after this general assessment, we would like to make an assessment of the targets set under the New Economy Programme and budget of 2020. Before the budget talks in 2019, the Central Time Program, which covered 2019-2021, was created on 20 September 2018, with the understanding of balancing, discipline and change in the New Economic Programme. After the programme was announced, there have been a number of global, regional improvements that will negatively affect the economic goals, but the goals that have been set have been seen to be realistic and consistent. The Central Future Programme, which covered 2020-2022, was also called the New Economic Programme, which was announced on September 30, 2019. The programme, aimed at cost stability, financial stability, protection and development of gains achieved in the balance of current transactions over the past year, is a key and realistic goal for economic transformation and change to fair sharing with sustainable growth focused on production and efficiency. According to this, 2019 each annual income was estimated to be $9,093 dollars from the previous year, with an increase in the last year of the programme, in 2022, it was intended to increase to $10,534. After our economy's narrowing down in the last quarter, in the third quarter of 2019, it has been announced that our economy has grown by 0.9 per cent compared to the same quarter of the previous year. This will allow our country to close 2019 years with 0.5 per cent economic growth. Markets consider this a positive development. As of the first quarter of 2020, global interest reductions and the decline of tension in trade wars are expected to increase the number of growth in Turkey's economy with the support of export figures. As the programme is assessed, it is understood that from 2020 until 2022, growth of 5 per cent per year has been targeted. Exports are intended to be $190 billion in 2020, with an increase of 4.7 per cent, while imports are intended to be 231.5 billion in 2020. With the recovery of the economy, the prospect of increasing domestic demand leads to higher import growth than export growth. Tourism revenues are expected to be $29 billion in 2019. Tourism revenues, which are very important to our economy, are the basis of its goal of resetting the current deficit at the end of three years. Other than that, increasing the use of domestic goods in the manufacturing industry, providing increased exports of high-intensity goods, is seen as the main factors to ensure a decline in current deficits each year. Production is expected to increase in the industrial sector by more than 6 per cent in 2020, above the GDP growth rate, and during the programme period, this increase is expected to continue. Unemployment has risen to 14 per cent as of August 2019, especially at 27.4 per cent of young unemployment, and the proportion of young 15-24-year-olds with neither education nor employment is 30.1%; these numbers are quite high. The programme is expected to reduce the unemployment rate of 12.9% for 2019 to 11.8 per cent in 2020 and 9.8 per cent in 2022. TÜFE is expected to be 12 per cent in 2019, 8.5 per cent in 2020, 6 per cent in 2021, and 4.9 per cent of TÜFE in 2022. The central management budget of 2020 aims to fulfil the economic transformation towards sustainable growth and fair sharing, sustaining financial discipline, improving public balances, monitoring the sustainability of financial policy, and the future protection of the public finance field's achievements. The largest share of central management budget funds in 2020 is the current transfers and personnel costs, respectively. In 2020, current transfers are estimated to be 451.1 billion dollars, while personnel expenditures are estimated to be 282 billion 488 million dollars. Given inflation rates, it is understood that in January, the January 4 per cent increase in salary in July would not be enough, while the public staff's salary increase would be behind inflation. The budget is expected to raise interest costs of $103 billion in 2019 to $138.9 billion in 2020. There is a high increase in interest costs here. Turkey's expectations and goals, both in the medium-term programme and in the 2020 budget, are of great importance as planned. As our country deals with critical issues ahead of it, it should be able to maintain discipline in economic and financial policies; it should be able to provide economic growth and development based on production based on structural measures in areas such as production, labour market, education and agriculture. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the presidential administration system in our country, which has been in effect and officially implemented since July 9, 2018, has proved its maturity during its brief period of dealing with the difficulties we have expressed above, while the attack on our government system has been seen to be unfair, non-consequential and even the size of slander. The presidential governance system is a system that meets the Turkish nation's understanding of state, the philosophy of governance. These countries face political crises, systemic obstructions during the present period, as much as the world has been modeled, praised, and praised. In the 21st century, which is shaped according to the needs of Turkey, the presidential system in our country is a system specific to Turkey, which will make Turkey strong and democratically developed. The evaluation of this system through the applications of other presidential systems that are being implemented around the world is never accurate, causing our citizen to get misinformation. From the referendum process on April 16, 2017 to date, we have seen a number of slanders, lies and distortions in connection with the presidential administration system. But the facts are clear, given the seventeen-month period of implementation, the injustice of criticism against the system is revealed. It was intended that the separation of forces between the adopted and implemented system and the law, the execution and the judiciary would become more specific, and that purpose would be fulfilled. Today, the administration takes direct authority from the nation. The head of the administration, the President, is able to form his cabinet at the time of his election, and with the oath ceremony, the government begins its mandate. As in the previous system, government negotiations, coalition talks, there is no possibility of re-election. There is no confusion between the President and the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister and the two entities. Political stability is emerging in a strong way, the possibility of custody and intermediary regime is reduced to minimum, and our country is more protected from external interference. The president is not irresponsible, but politically and criminally responsible. With 50+1 per cent public support, the President, whose legitimacy is at the highest, has been able to maintain a stable and strong government. The decision-making process has been accelerated, effective and strong on the issues. We see that the presidential government system provides significant benefits in the government's fight against terrorist attacks and financial manipulation against our country. Dear lawmakers, we believe that the most unfair institution in the presidential government system is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the new system in place, parliament has been stronger in representation as part of its understanding of justice. Turkey's Grand National Assembly currently represents nine political parties, five political parties. The voter's political preference is reflected at the highest level in parliament. If this diversity were in the old system, coalition obligations would be mentioned, and it would be impossible for the administration to be established in a stable manner. However, in the presidential government system, even with such diversity in parliament, it is possible to achieve monolith and stability. Although legislation and control functions have become independent, our House is described as worthless and dysfunctional -- involuntary and unfairly -- without judgment. For the first time, the Parliament, which is alleged to be weak and dysfunctional against the president, has the right to investigate and eventually refer the President to the Supreme Court for a alleged crime. Again, the Parliament, which is not in other presidential systems, has the right to renew the presidential election, along with parliamentary elections, is a strong Parliament. From the moment the new system began to be implemented, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has demonstrated a intensive legislative performance so far. Those who claim that Turkey will be governed by presidential decrees have also witnessed that our state is governed by the laws of the Veteran Assembly. The period is now over, under the power vested in the Council of Ministers, and the adoption of the Parliament by the executive authority of the legislature has ended. Laws are submitted to parliament by lawmakers' proposals, met in commissions and the General Assembly, and are legalised. The opportunity for the Council of Ministers to submit the bill has been eliminated. The House has its own agenda. A number of proposals to parliament during the 17-month implementation process have been made significant changes, considering the criticism of the opposition as a result of talks in both the commissions and the General Assembly. So these proposals, as presented to the Parliament, are not motomots without being touched by the letter, but by significant changes in the outcome of the major negotiations and debates, have been passed in parliament. This should be considered a sign of health in terms of our democracy. Our nation, Turkey, sees the Grand National Assembly as a cure for all its troubles, victims, and injustice, as well as its hope here. Every day, parliament is flooded with citizens who have come to parliament to express their troubles and demands. The demands and expectations of our citizens are being evaluated by our lawmakers, and the proposals of the law are being offered to resolve matters. In accordance with the issues we have expressed, it will be impossible to say that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been neutralized and it has no judgment. Of course, there are some studies that must be done in order for the legislature of our parliament to carry out its legislature in accordance with the spirit of the presidency's government system. At the beginning of this, a change in the Civil Code. In view of the practice experience coming up in two years, lawmakers need internal regulations to activate legislative activities. We believe that the quality of legislation should be improved, effective commissions in legislation and audit processes, an effective analysis of the law proposals, and the creation of a system or infrastructure that will report them, and that there should be a separate permanent residency commission in which certain account and audit reports will be discussed as part of the activation of the audit. It is our sincere expectation that the amendment to the Civil Code, which we expressed in the previous budget talks, will take place during this year's legislature. As the National Movement Party, we would like to state that we are ready to contribute to any positive efforts to change the Civil Code. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were announced by our President on May 30, 2019, as a result of their efforts to restore trust in the judiciary. This document, which shows confidence and an accessible vision of justice, is crucial to the rise of the judiciary to the dignity it deserves in our society. Increased trust in the judiciary, improved the understanding of human-oriented service, improved and improved rights and freedoms more effectively, improved judicial independence and neutrality, strengthening legal security, facilitating access to justice, monitoring the right to trial on reasonable time, principle and values of judicial reform. In this framework, specific goals and goals have been declared. Under the Judicial Reform Strategy Document, the first judicial package was adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 24 October 2019, when legal regulations and amendments could come to parliament in packages. It is important to ensure that the Supreme Court has the opportunity to appeal to the Supreme Court in cases related to certain crimes which have been sentenced to five years in prison with the first judicial package. The fact that arrest deadlines are subject to a serious limit in the investigation process will allow our prosecutors to conduct the investigation much faster and more effectively. In this way, the fact that the arrest does not become a means of punishment is literally a measure. Again, we consider the introduction of compromise, prepayment, simple judicial procedure and a series of judicial procedures an important development. We see the restoration of the Academy of Justice as a positive development. We find it best that the entrance exam to the legal professions has always been reached in this package as a matter of public debate. The fact that the testimony and statements of children or victims were provided in private, in the judicial interview rooms has satisfied a significant lack. The first judicial package, which we support as the National Movement Party, certainly does not include all the issues laid out in the strategy document. Although this situation is well known to everyone, we would also like to express that we do not find the criticism of the amendments, as if judicial reform was the first package. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, Turkey is struggling against its presence from within and outside, with many threats and attacks on its back. Reckless treatment of these threats and dangers can lead to fatal consequences. In this context, Turkey is engaged in an active and decisive struggle within the country with elements that threaten the peace and security of our nation. There is no religion, language, race, religion, or gender of terrorism, as it is said. Terror is terror and its goal is all humanity. In our geography, Turkey has unfortunately had to fight trials, terrorism, and attempts at each period. In this period, terrorist organisations such as ا, PKK/YPG-PYD, DEAŞ, DHKP-C have taken over the subcontractorship of major forces in Turkey. Our state struggles and results in the most effective methods against these terrorist organizations, which, God willing, will continue until the last terrorist is neutralized. Those who use universal values such as freedom, democracy, human rights in Turkey and in the world as cover to cover up their terrorist act, will eventually be exposed to the wrath of the Turkish state and Turkish nation. An irregular migration, refugee and asylum -- one of the most important agendas in the world -- is also an important issue for Turkey. Turkey hosts nearly 4 million refugees and asylum seekers. There is no other country in the world that values asylum seekers and refugees like Turkey and provides the minimum conditions for human life. Unfortunately, the world is not in the same sensitivity. However, it is not possible for Turkey to accept any more mass migration or refugee raids. The maximum effort must be made for the refugees we have hosted in our country to return to their homes safely and voluntarily. In this context, the policy that our government has established is extremely important. In order to ensure the return of the Syrian asylum seekers in our country, it is a very humane solution to the creation of and placing of these refugees in a safe zone that has been de-terrorised. In northern Syria, 400,000 Syrians have thus far returned to the safe zones of Operation Firat Shield, Operation Olive Mountain, and Operation Peace Fountain. In the case of Turkey's declared safe zone in the international community, the first step will be to ensure that 1 million refugees will be settled in this territory, along with the second phase. As the National Movement Party, we value and support this project, which Turkey has announced. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are in the middle of the Balkans, the Caucasus and the Middle East, the three most conflicting and disarrayed regions in the world throughout the world. It is undisputed that living in such an important geography requires great sacrifices. The Turkish nation, who have given many martyrs throughout history to be in this land, is still paying for the blood of this land today. The developments in the Middle East have led millions of innocent people to die in civil wars; countries such as Syria, Iraq, have become uninhabitable. The lack of authority in these states led to terrorist organizations nesting in this land and boosting their power. In particular, a corridor of terror has been created by these terrorist organizations that have been established and established on the borders of our country. These organizations have attacked our citizens, causing our people to lose their lives, to be injured. In 2018, around 4,500 PKK/PYD-YPG terrorists have been neutralized, launched on 9 October 2019, and have been neutralized by the Battle of the Peace Pin of Peace (OHR). Turkey has used its right to self-defense under Article 51 of the United Nations Condition. Again, the PKK's terrorist organization has been hit by Operation Claws, which we carried out in northern Iraq. Turkey has achieved significant success in destroying terror at its source. We, the National Movement Party, would like to say once again that we strongly support the operations and operations of terror that have been carried out and carried out. In addition to Turkey's achievements in the field with the Armed Forces and security forces, its diplomatic achievements are admirable. Under such difficult circumstances, it's important to be able to carry out a plan of its own in a Geography, where all the major forces in the world are in operation, to achieve rights and law without anyone else's need; Turkey is able to do so. Besides, the political solution to the process of Astana, Sochi and Geneva, in the context of the future of the neighbouring and sister Syrian people and the protection of the country's territorial integrity, and the continuation of constitutional studies with the participation of all parties are studies that Turkey stands on and care about. Mr. President, the state of the Republic of Turkey does not allow the establishment of a corridor of terror on the southern borders, nor does it allow the rights of the Turkish Cypriot people and Turkey to be ignored in the Eastern Mediterranean. The Turkish Republic of Turkey operates drilling operations in the eastern Mediterranean by the Greek Cypriot part of Egypt, Israel and Greece, while the Turkish Cypriot state is conducting seismic research with the Oruç Reis and Barbaros Iştin Pasha ships, as well as with their drilling licenses from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Our ships are accompanied by the marine and air elements of our army for seven days and 24 hours. Turkey has no joke about the eastern Mediterranean, and it is not a bluff. The hydrocarbon deposits, described as existing in this area, are vital to both Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The Covenant of Covenant for Limiting Marine Authority Areas signed with Libya in the battle of dominance in the Mediterranean province should be seen as a very important diplomatic achievement for our country. Unfortunately, our country is heavily dependent on energy, providing most of its energy needs through imports. To reduce external dependence on energy, the maximum assessment of coal and renewable energy sources, the diversity of resources and resources in energy imports, an effective demand method, and the energy supply must be carried out in an uninterrupted and adequate manner. Turkey is supplying its natural gas from Russia, Iran and Azerbaijan, and is buying liquefied gas from Algeria and Nigeria. Given the limited number of countries we import natural gas, it is important that Turkey considers alternatives to resource diversification, the number of storage sites, the capacity and the increase of daily injection opportunities in the country. In this way, significant measures against extraordinary situations and seasonal fluctuations will be developed. Turkey's geopolitical position has become an indispensable country in energy transmission lines. In addition to existing oil and gas pipelines, the TANAP European connection, which will transport Azerbaijan gas to Europe, was launched on November 30th. Again, the Black Sea section has been crossed in the Turkish Media Project, a natural gas pipeline project that was implemented with Russia, and the pipeline has reached Turkey. Thanks to these pipelines, Turkey's strategic and geopolitical importance has increased further. Turkey has high potential for renewable energy, especially solar and wind energy. It is a pleasure to see our country's interest in investments in this area in recent years. In the mining industry, our country should be able to emerge from the state of a raw materials-making state and become a country that is integrated with industry, producing high-integration products and marketing them to the world. In this scope, gold, thorium, boron, and so on should be converted into high-tech add-up products and marketed for these products. There is a great benefit in taking the necessary steps under a national policy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are national education, construction of futures, guarantees of future. Nationality represents the tradition of thousands of years of state and nation. The nationalism of education and defence points to the combination of values that make the nation a nation. Our education policy should be to raise generations of cultured, religious, social sensibilities, who have pride and awareness of Turkish nationalism, who depend on our moral and moral values, who are open to the scientific developments of our age, analyze, produce, and solve problems. In addition to implementing and implementing the needs of modern - day planning for a national education, the teaching of knowledge and wisdom that arises in this land against the corruption of our values should be made available to young generations. In this case, we would like to express our concern for the 2023 Education Vision Document, which has been announced by our Ministry of National Education. In the 2023 Education Vision Document, a separate title has been opened on the subject of Turkish language competence, and the protection and development of Turkish education has been discussed as the backbone of basic education and has been implemented by the Turkish Word Presence Project. We would like to state that we find this development valuable as a nationalist movement party. Also, some innovations and regulations have been made in elementary schools and secondary schools, as stated in the 2023 Education Vision Document. At the end of September, the children who completed 69 months were enrolled in elementary school. It's a good development that our children who have completed 60 months have been given up on the previous arrangement where they can start primary school. It is also because of the improvements we find positive in the opening of around 3,000 draft skills workshops in our schools and raising the number of workshops to 10,000 in order to develop hand, algorithms, robotics and artistic design skills. Students are still deeply affected and affected by the frequent changes in the curriculum and the examination system today. In this case, it is important to ensure stability. The identification of individuals in need of special education and the prevalence of educational institutions in this area and the regulation of the programmes of educational institutions must be in line with the needs of the day. Teaching programmes should be considered as a goal for the development of compatible individuals who are central to thinking and learning, who have access to information, who evaluate it, who are in line with the work of a team. Students should be able to improve themselves in primary education and secondary schools, with their knowledge, skills, and abilities, and their will, and in areas that are appropriate, and in higher education, they should be able to study in these areas. In terms of teachers, it is imperative that the teacher's profession be rushed and the teaching profession's reputation be raised. Paid, proxy, contract teachers must be terminated, teachers must be secured as a staff at a single status. Mr. President, good lawmakers, agriculture and livestock are a matter we must address with great precision until 2023. It is vital that our country be strengthened by a national and domestic understanding and to reach the level targeted for agriculture and animalism in order to increase its prosperity. In 2018 and 2019, agricultural growth is estimated to be at an average of 2 per cent, and the share of agricultural growth within the illegal domestic product is expected to be 6.1 per cent in 2020. In 2019, our farmer had to close the year with harm, especially in other products - corn and cotton - even though the prices in such products as nuts, tea, especially did comfort the farmer. Although we find it positive that agricultural support will rise to 22 billion levels in 2020, that zero interest practices in agricultural and animal loans will continue, we think it is necessary for the support to be carried out in a higher and more efficient way. Reconstruction of our farmers' loans is a great need. Again, our farmer must be supported at the prices of diesel, medicine, and fertilizer, the most important inputs of our farmers. Finally, I emphasise the importance of national agricultural policy in Turkey on agriculture and livestock.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0020par0160	Mr. Nightingale, I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0019par0161	Finally, we would like to state that we attribute national agricultural policy in Turkey to the utmost importance as the National Movement Party. In this policy, Turkey, hopefully, in agriculture, seeds, medicines, fertilizers, and so on, I think, will also ensure nationalization, domesticization, and free dependency. I, with these feelings and thoughts, salute your high delegation with respect to the 2020 Year Budget Law Proposal, and the Proposal for the Final Account Law of 2018.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0020par0164	Thank you. Dear friends, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first speaker, Co-Chair and Istanbul MP Mr. Pervin Buldan. Here you go, Mr. Buldan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 40 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0021par0169	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I express our views as the People's Democratic Party on the budget of 2020, I salute you and all the people who are watching us on their screens. While in active democratic politics, I salute and cherish all our friends who are held hostage in the prisons of the city, the beloved Selçuk Baluken, the beloved MP, Selma Irmaki, Sebahat Tuncel, Çağlar Demireli, Gülser Yıldırım, Abdullah Zeydan, Gülten Kışanak, Gülten Küzanak, Aysel Tuğluk, Selç Balraklı, and all the people whose names I can't count. The politicians who should be at the moment are within four walls. Do not think that HDP is the only one in prison; democracy and freedoms are in the person of HDP (HDP). Justice is under arrest, peace seekers are under arrest. We live in an authoritarian order, not in the people, but in the hands of the powerful. It's been almost a century since the assembly was established, but the republic hasn't met democracy in a hundred years. That's why the crisis in this country hasn't stopped for over a century. Remember, when Parliament was founded in 1920, it was based on pluralism. The 1921 Constitution pointed to the Parliament in representational democracy and the direct democracy in the region, which is the direct rule of the public itself. In his speech at Erzurum Congress, Mustafa Kemal was emphasising the rights, rights and laws of the republic, saying that we, the Turkish and Kurdish nation, were two peoples, the nation's rights, the law. With the Constitution of 1924, there was a historic break, and the number one nationalist nation system, based on rejection and denial of identities, beliefs, whose effects continue at the most today. If the founding mind and pluralism of 1920 had not been abandoned, the rights of the founding peoples would have been handed over today, we would be living in a decentralisation order under the democratic republic; there would not have been crises, peoples would not have been separated; Kurds, Alevis, Sunnis, Armenians, Arabs, Serbs, Suridians, tyrants, Lazlers, we would have lived together equally and freely together with our own identities, culture, beliefs, and languages. Unfortunately, we're not in this environment, but it's just a graffiti of sovereignty in the public. There's something else going on behind those walls. A single, centralist, nationalist, authoritarian system has been trying to stand up for over a century. A system that doesn't trust the public, doesn't believe, suppresses the people's demands, doesn't answer, only sees the people as voters. And the whole community is paying for it. It's the sense of justice that keeps society together, peace, equal citizenship, freedom, true democracy. These values never divide, they combine. It's an environment that separates things that don't exist. If the Kurdish has as much right as the Turk, and the Alevi have not as much as the Sunni, and the poor as the poor as the rich, and the worker has not as much right as the boss, then social consciences and emotions will be broken, and they will be broken. If the 1920 Parliament is listed as the Kurdish language, which the Kurds who are known for their presence speak in today's Parliament, then this is where breaking happens. If Roboski doesn't do justice for the villagers who were killed by airplanes, then there's a sense of disintegration here. If a mother is forced to keep her 10-year-old daughter, Cemile,'s lifeless body in the refrigerator, the biggest fracture is here. The 60-year-old Emine, who died in prison because she wasn't treated, is not given a condolence house, and if the condolence tent is prevented, even if it is discriminated against in death, there will be a break here. The biggest break will be here if the municipality chosen by Kurd with a thousand labours, by paying the price, is gassed by trustees. If there is no justice for the miners who die hundreds of feet below the ground in Soma, then this is where breaking happens. If the Alekis who were slain in Maraş, who were burned in Sivas, are excluded, their rights are not delivered, and they are still placed in their homes with a cross sign, then this is where the breaking happens. If there are no Ayse Tubas, Emine Clouds, Özgecans, Cerens, a state to protect the Shules, and no justice to be broken, then this is the place to live. If there is no justice for those who slay the prophets, and for Kemal Kurkuts, and for Berkini, and for the Ceylans, and for those who slay Ali Ismails, then the breaking is here. The government's reputation is not to be saved. If it is stolen from the people's table, the laborer's sweat, the breaking will be here. If the law that works for the Almighty doesn't come to our people on the street, if everyone cries out for justice, then this is a place where Turkey has suffered a major break. As this breach deepens, the collapse will accelerate. Yes, lawmakers, if there are a lot of people fighting for justice in a country, building justice has turned into a struggle for people, it is necessary to question the purpose of the state's existence and what it actually serves at this point. Because it's the government's primary duty to maintain justice. Justice is not a burden on society, it shouldn't be. If justice is sought by candle in the power of a party called justice, it is of course the government's responsibility. This is the power that tells bureaucrats to leave law and legislation aside when it is necessary. I don't have to know the Constitutional Court's decision, I don't have to trust it. It's the government's Minister. I do not respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. He is the President of this country. When Demirtaş's release comes to the agenda, he is again the AKP's President who decides to replace the judiciary by saying, "We can't let go." It is the Speaker of the President who judges for our co-chairs who have been removed from their duties, saying, "They are to be judged, they are to be punished." He is the prosecutor, judge of this power, police, who sees himself above the will of Parliament, seeking custody of the chosen. Now, what justice are we going to talk about in which system of law? Demirel said the state sometimes goes out of order for silence. In AKP rule, it's become a routine tradition to go outside of the law. Anyone who opens their mouth, criticizes power, tweets, and says "crisis." They're being thrown in. We've never seen a single public official, a politician, who steals, commits hate crimes, insults differences, tortures, corrupts the tender. On February 28th, even the kebabists on the street were listed as internal enemies. In 17 years of AKP rule, he became an onion, a potato, and a terrorist even with a dollar. On February 28th, everyone was tagged, and now it's being tagged. So many terrorists have been produced that their per capita income has exceeded. The AKP was so similar to the order it came to power on the charge of changing its status and status that it never dropped its flag. Nine out of the ten words used by power are the language of the authoritarian state: "Beka" is the language of the enemy, the enemy, the traitor, etc., etc., and so on and so forth. There's no words, no words, no words of peace, no words of justice. You've deformed all the values, you've made all the abnormals normal. The way to break the law is to eliminate the law. That's exactly what's happening right now. See, those who prepare the proceedings and indictments of HDP MPs including Demirtaş and Yüksekdağ are the prosecutors and judges of the congregation and others are currently in prison. Who has prevented Demirtaş, who was arrested by the prosecution of the people? He is the head of the AKP himself. Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ and all the elected prisoners must be released immediately and this unlawfulness must be stopped. The congregation is being tried for building parallel states, for attempted coups, but the violations of that parallel structure are continuing. 10,000 Kurdish politicians have been arrested in the parallel state of the congregation from 2009 to 2012, while the number of HDP MPs detained since 2015 is 15,000, while 5,000 are under arrest. So, what changed? The State of Emergency regime, which was declared after the July 15 coup attempt, continues with the practice against Kurds, social opposition, democratic strugglers, which does not investigate the coup. Congressmans, we are witnessing the existence of a system that ignores the Constitution and the law with its daily example. Where do we see it? He's in the trustee's office. A total of 34 of our municipalities, which have not been given a court of six, have been illegally confiscated and handed over to the trustee. Our 17 elected mayors are now under arrest. The trustee municipalities have been transformed into military barracks, and the municipalities of the people are closed to the public. What does Article 67 of the Constitution say? In accordance with the conditions shown in the law, citizens have the right to choose, choose, and participate in political activities or publicisation in an independent or political party, he says. With the order of trustees, the people's right to choose, which is recognised in the Constitution, has been officially eliminated; the voter will and the Constitution have been ruled out. Isn't it a coup to ignore 6 million people's games and plant the trustee in front of the people's will, even if you choose? And the trustee is not just a regime for our municipalities, but for the entire country's sath. Everyone must see the presence of an understanding that eliminates the local, local democracy, wants to bring the single, centrifugal system into action in the locals. The government claims that the mayors of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) have been terrorized and sent money to the mountain. There is not a single document, there is not a single evidence, it's all talk, it's all lies. There's not a single investigation of our co-chairs who have been removed from duty and arrested. A trustee appointment is a political operation. The AKP has seized what it couldn't get by election by force of trustees. The municipalities are already in debt and foreclosure due to the theft of trustees, corruption. The staff salary is barely paid. Do you know where the money went? And I'll tell you -- and that's already been determined -- by the trustees, by the pistachio frames, by the gifts they get for sucking up to the ministers. The charges of corruption of trustees are consistent with the Court's reports. The locals are practically corrupt. If you must seek support for terrorism, you must seek what you have asked the congregation to do. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Corruption should be sought in trustees if it is sought illegally, not in Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) municipalities that have uncovered the thefts of trustees. Congressmans, the sole goal of the trustee is co-chair. The co-chair system is an alternative model developed against the male monogamous system. The co-chair system has become a major achievement for all women in Turkey's history of democracy. Co-chair is the political language of democratic, moral and political society. The co-chair is the foundation of the free, equal, democratic director of society. The antidote to the sole presidency, the one-man administration, is co-chair. In the coup d'état, which began on August 19th, the main target was our co-chair system. The co-mayors of our trustee-appointed municipalities are now under arrest. The main reason for the target of co-chairing is the insistence on the male regime. The trustee is political violence directed at the will of women. As soon as the previous trustees were appointed, they first shut down women's institutions in our local administrations, women's centers for working against violence. Women's hostility is sustained by a trustee regime. Political violence targeting women in the street and political co-existence in the political field is a reflection of the same male power mentality. We, the HDP, will not call it 'failah'; we will never give up the co-chair; we will not back down a millimetre; we will continue to call it's co-chair'; we will continue to call it's co-chair'. We will continue to expose the extortionist trustee mentality of power everywhere. It's an honor to uphold the will of the people, and we will uphold it. We're not going to give up until we send in the trustees, we're going to make our legal democratic struggle even bigger. Power will never succeed with trustees. If he had succeeded, the public investigators would have succeeded. They've lost, and today's trustees will lose. If the polls were put in front of the public tomorrow, the trustees would get the biggest slap in history. We urge all those who favor democracy, public will, all those who lead democratic politics not to remain silent in the face of the coup d'état of power. We also urge this Parliament, which represents the will of the people, to take a stand against the law of trustees. The Parliament must determine where the will of the people stands next to the will of the chosen ones, along with the illegal trustees. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the view of the country, unfortunately, is not pleasant. The AKP, which ended the law, the elected will, the freedoms, has brought the country to its worst crises. Seventeen years ago he came to power with the promise of work, work without work. Now, not every university graduate has to find a job for anyone who wants a job. If you eat 3 meals a day of bagels with minimum wage below the hunger limit, your salary will increase. Unemployment, poverty, hunger, poverty, injustice are all over the place. Of course, the crisis can't be seen from the palace window. No money for the YITs. No money for the disposable kitchen set. You can't see the poverty of the people from the palace, which spends $1.4 trillion, 1.5 trillion for the cutlery, 3.8 trillion for the cutlery, 6.1 trillion for the clothes, $2 trillion for the gifts. Its economy is a broken order, the order of corruption, poverty, exhaustion. On the one hand, society quickly loses its human standard of living, while on the other hand, a group of supporters have been cut off by the rights of the poor. In every field, from a ball of paper to a needle that was bought, a scheme of fraud was completely alive, where robbers, looters, were in charge. As a result, the tragic picture of poverty, hunger, despair, which has been dragged into the millions. People in despair are trying to free themselves from this cruel wheel. As a matter of fact, there is only one cheap and easy thing in the country today: death. The society has been left with a massive destruction that has never been seen in the history of Turkey. The government asked the public for authority in every election, took it, but didn't solve any problems. There's a problem with the system, let the authorities meet in one person, we'll solve all problems. It's been said that the single man system has become the biggest problem. Turkey will rise to the throne and fly. He said, "The expenses of the palace are wasted, wasteful, inflation, dollar has gone up, dollar has gone up." Mass unemployment, starving and poor by the KHK, labourers, non-employees, closing jobs, society in debt, increased suicides, increased increases, taxes; this is the summation of the presidential government system, a country that has been destroyed. There's not a single person left who can look forward to tomorrow, who can dream about the future, who's been stolen from people's dreams of the future. No justice to be trusted, no legal system left. The society was divided, polarized, and we said, "They and they." People were unable to look at each other's faces. In 17 years, from economy to democracy, from human rights to religious problems, there's not a single problem that this power solves. You said, "Reform." You deformed all the values until you got to the people's faith. You called torture zero tolerance, you tolerated the torturers. You said the rule of law is not the law of the superior, but the rule of court. You said independent judgment, you buttoned the court. You called it a democratic state, you formed a police state. The freedoms will rise. You said there's an economic crisis. Even those who say, "You've put handcuffs on their hands." The Alevis have been waiting for a solution for years, and the solution you have found is Alevilik without Ali. We will solve the Kurdish problem. You said, "You will appoint a trustee to the head of almost every Kurdish person." Women want equality, they want freedom, they want the right to live; your solution is that I do not believe in equality between men and women. You've turned health into a pile of concrete, city hospitals, contractors, community, cult foundations. You've turned social security into social insecurity. We will prevent unemployment. You said, you have created unemployed people. We're going to build factory. You said, you've built prisons. We removed the State of Emergency. You said, you brought the State of Emergency back. We're going to increase the green area. You said, "You've increased the green in your safe." From Mount Kaz to Hasankeyf, from Munzur to the forests of the north, you had the companies raiding all over the land. You said there were zero problems with neighbors, not one country you didn't have trouble with on land, and now it's time for the seas, and you've carried the tension to the sea. Your only friend, Putin, and the SOC and other jihadist groups, unfortunately. The membership of the European Union is our strategic goal. You said, you threw the bridges, and now you're trying to enter the Eurasian Union. We have no eyes on anyone's land. You said, "You are trying to settle down in northern Syria, to take the people out of their homeland." You did what you promised, you said the opposite of what you did. Yes, lawmakers, Turkey has been seeking to establish sovereignty in northern and eastern Syria since 9 October, against international law, but not a pebble has been thrown from that side of the border. What the government does not say is that the Kurds should not build a democratic future there with the people of northern Syria, and not have a say in it. That is the whole issue. Even a five-year-old boy in Turkey sees and knows the power that tries to block the will of Kurds through operations in northern Syria with trustee appointments. You're going to Moscow. You say Kurds shouldn't have willpower in Syria. You're going to Washington, you're going to Kurds. You're going to a NATO meeting, the Kurds are your agenda. Because in and out, you've built all your policies on anti-Kurdishism. As long as the Kurds don't have any say in the world, all your efforts and efforts are aimed at it. So, I ask you, when the Kurds lose, does Turkey win? When the Kurds are from their homeland in northern Syria, do they solve the problems of Edirne, Ardahan, and Tripoli? When Kurds lose in Syria, is unemployment reduced in Turkey, poverty reduced, minimum wage increased, inflation decreases? Every policy to lose Kurds is losing to Kurdish people, Turkish people; Turkish people need to see this. Yes, if the Kurds lose, ISIS will revive in northern Syria. Is the growth of ISIS so desirable? When ISIS loses the darkness, Turkey also loses? Unfortunately, since the Kurdish problem has not been resolved, Kurds and Turks have lost all geography because they have not given up Kurdish hostility. Yes, from 2013 to 15 Mr. Ocalan had taken historical steps to resolve the solution. Inside and in Syria, a democratic process would proceed, and the matter would be resolved inside. Because of the ruling accounts, the government rejected the Dolmabahçe Covenant, overturned the table, and launched İmralı isolation from April 5, 2015. Today, with Imran isolation, the hopes of democracy, peace and resolution are in isolation, the democratic future of the peoples is in isolation. Remember, what did Mr. Erdogan say in 2010? ▪ Who will gain from bringing security concerns to the forefront? Are there any winners in these events that have been going on for twenty-six years? If we give up democratic openings, Turkey will lose, we won't give up; war is easy, peace is hard, we demand the difficult. It's not peace that's hard, it's standing up for it. The easy thing is to go back on the line, which is easy, unfortunately. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) 10 years ago, there was no winner in the introduction of security concerns. Where is he now? So he's gaining power, which means the security guard is firmly wrapped up in politics. Once again, there will be no gains in irresolutability, isolation, war policies. All the forces that approached the Kurdish issue with security policies have broken down and gone, and the AKP will eventually join that caravan. You haven't solved the Kurdish problem, but the Kurdish problem will solve you. Unfortunately, society always pays the price for indecision, pays with its life and its economics. In the 2020 budget, 141.1 billion dollars were earmarked for defence spending. The people's taxes are falling on the mountain as a bomb. The Turkish people's tax is being spent on dislodging northern Syrian people from their homes, and the public's tax goes as a salary to the ESO gangs. Last week, in the bombing in Tel Rifat district, eight children were killed by 10 civilians. Roboski and Tel Rifat went through the same tragedy. 478 civilians have lost their lives since October 9th. Of course, the Kurdish people will not forget what they have experienced or who have experienced it, nor will history forget it. You created the biggest break in history in Kurdish people. This fracture will reflect on you, and it will break in your power, which has already begun. The Fountain of Peace will not give you power. And never forget that you can't develop a policy without recognizing the will of the Kurdish people, making peace with Kurds inside and out, and even if you develop it, you can't succeed. This will be a century in which the Kurdish people will win and live freely and honorably with their identity, language, culture, like all the peoples of the world. No one, no one, will be able to stop it. Yes, Mr. President, we will continue to oppose the war with insistence and stubbornness of the HDP and continue to defend the peace. The only hope and courage of the peoples of Turkey in a period when democracy, the sense of justice, is to be eliminated. It is the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) that unites its people in common emotions, in the will of change, in the solidarity of fighting and in its aim for the future of freedom. From June 7th to March 31st and June 23rd, our party has created a democratic option in all elections. It has strengthened the belief that power can go, that change is possible. We insist on this option, we are determined. That's why we're at the goal of power. I'm speaking now as co-Chair of a party where thousands of elected, executive, member are being held. It's almost an enemy law against our party. By order of the government, the police and the judiciary have gone on HDPlı hunt. In the last month, 350 parties have been taken into custody, most of whom have been arrested. Every day a city and county organisation is raided, and our executives are taken into custody. The government uses the state, the judiciary and police force under its command to avenge its loss in the 31st and 23 June elections. It doesn't fit with political courage, it doesn't fit with political morality. Look, our last Elbia county manager, 70-year-old Ali Short and his wife Elif Short were arrested. Moreover, they have two disabled children to care for, and now they have no mother, no father. The 70-year-old was a party manager. What is it, not enemy law to put a 70-year-old in prison? Suruç Co-Chair Hatice Avik has been arrested. ISIS massacred her daughter in the Ankara Station massacre; ISIS massacres her daughter, and her mother is arrested by this power. What is this, not a law of hostility? How can one family be the common goal of ISIS and power? The power has to answer that. We are aware of the plan against HDP. The HDP is trying to purge the democratic political area altogether. We see the government's plans to live without HDP (HDP) parliament, HDP (HDP) non-governmental municipalities, Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) politics, HDP (HDP) non-profits. The non-Kurdish northern Syrian plan has a foothold here in Turkey without HDP, but the government is wrong, Turkey without AKP, but it can't do without HDP. (Applause from HDP rows) Because the HDP is an inter-public bridge, the only political force that unites the people. Not without HDP, but without AKP, we would now like to remind you that Turkey is not far away. HDP will continue to disrupt political games, political accounts. HDP will not be finished, it will not be finished; HDP will not kneel or kneel. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) If there were only one HDP (HDP) member, HDP's principles would face democratic struggle. We are a political movement that takes our power from the people, from the democratic struggle, and from the principles we believe in. The position that holds us together is not rank, it's determination to fight, it's solidarity, it's dedication to the people, freedom, peace, democracy. In 1994, the DeP MPs were thrown out of this parliament, where are the shooters now? They've all been thrown aside, politically destroyed, but we're here again. We come to magic, multiplying and multiplying, and those who seek to destroy us have gone to a lesser place, and will continue to go to a lesser place. He who goes must be let go, and if he is not given the way, he is made to go the way. No one in this power has any hope of a solution because this power has no credibility left. AKP's political story is over; it can't, can't, can't. There is no structure left, but there is a trustee's palace, and he is a goner. The established presidential trustee system is on the verge of political bankruptcy. Let our people be at ease; we are the solution; we are the hope; we are the people; it is Turkey's democratic conscience; it is social opposition; it is oppressed; it is workers; it is women. Those who crush the oppressed can't solve the problem of the exploited. Justice can't be brought to justice by those who cause injustice. Those who ignore the hands of the people, and the will of the people, cannot hold them. Good can't bring evil, light can't bring darkness. Poverty can't be ended by corrupters. Only those who think of the people's problems as a people understand them, not in palaces, but in people. As he said, if we look at our problems from the same angle and from the same pain, we can find a cure for our problems. Those who are proud, those who worship power, those who look down upon the people will not understand, nor will they be able to help themselves. Turkey is at a complete crossroads, it can't be managed, it's going to continue to collapse like this, it's going to fall off a cliff, or it's going to find another way out. There is a way out, it is the public itself, it is democracy, it is a lasting peace inside and out, it is a real justice, it is freedom that surrounds everyone; it is a democratic, pluralist new constitution, it is democratic decentralisations and a strengthened democratic parliamentary system, and it is co-chair in central government, in local governments. For that, this power must be sent at once. With the largest democratic social alliance, the alliance of the people, the alliance of women, the alliance of workers and workers, we can do it, we can do it. That's why we're calling for an early election. The chest must be put before the public at once. The early general election should be the urgent agenda of the entire political institution and society. Let's not allow a government that would lose power tomorrow to mortgage our next ten years. June is hope, June is courage, June is success and victory, dear friends. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the woman who makes up half the community, are not in this budget, as she is excluded and ignored in every field. The main goal of budgets is to contribute to the removal of inequality in society through equal distribution of resources. The 2020 budget -- like before -- does not lift the inequality, it increases the inequality. The link between street violence and budget is obvious. When you can't achieve social gender equality in the budget, if you don't strengthen women, you open the way for economic violence, and then for physical violence. Yes, this budget involves economic violence. The increase in male and state violence against women and the slaughter of dozens of women daily are the result of the sexist, nationalist, sectarian policies of AKP power, which sustain and legitimize violence and power. In the first 11 months of 2019, 439 women were slaughtered and 39 women -- most of them by their wives and family members -- were murdered in November. Every day when you go to bed and sleep, at least five women are killed that day; you sleep, women die. The last time a 20-year-old college student, dear Ceren Özdemir, was murdered. Ceren was murdered in the wake of the government's heavy negligence by an attack by a killer whose path to the massacre was opened. Now, there's some people out there bragging about the police's success. I'd like to ask: How is it possible for a murderer to be arrested after he committed the 2nd murder, after he extinguished another life? A government that declares it does not believe in gender equality cannot, of course, demonstrate the ability to overcome all kinds of problems, barriers, and violence that women face. There's no right to a woman and no law in any state level from top to bottom. In all the political rhetoric and actions of the government, both rights and law are for men. In the government's field, women are subject to men's words, power, judgment. Women should know that a ruling mentality that prevents commissions from being established in parliament to prevent women's killings from destroying the Istanbul Convention and the women's right to child support does not prevent violence. These resources are reserved for security, and all expenses are made for security. But to whose safety! Because we also know that there is no security in this country, not a single person in this country is safe. Both the child who has been abused daily and the woman who has been abused daily and the worker who works in an unsecured, unsecured environment are not safe either in the polls or in the polls. In a country where the government itself has made itself the source of the dangers and the prime minister of the government, this is the safety of the baton, this is the gun, this is the security of the ammunition, only to ensure the safety of the Beka of this political power, and not for anything else.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0022par0200	Mr. Buldan, I'll add one minute, please complete.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0021par0201	This understanding tries to take over the country with fascism - young, old, women, babies - everyone is being crushed under these pressures. As of today, hundreds of babies grow up in prisons where they stay with their mothers. The negative conditions they're exposed to are pathetic. A country where children grow up in prisons is without a future. As women against the future created by power, if we fight as a society, we can create the common future, the bright future together. It's the women's common struggle to free women from inequality, violence, oppression. I call all women to a common challenge in this sense. I believe women will succeed because women will come, women will come. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I want to put an end to Gandhi's words: "Injustice must be brought to an end with justice. " He says that injustice will surely end with justice, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0022par0205	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0023par0206	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0022par0207	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0023par0210	Mr. President, thank you. We listened to Mr. Buldan. In his speech, he mentioned the Court report on appointed municipalities. True, there are these reports, but there is an explanation not related to trustees, but of the practices of earlier times, as does the Court's president. In that regard, you need to pay attention. Secondly, Mr. Buldan has identified the anti-Kurdish opposition as, he's right, he's right, he's right, he's right, there's such a thing, but you have to look at who's making Kurdish hostility. Kurds naturally exist in every political party in the House. So if these parties and the politics in Turkey were against the Kurds, if there was an atmosphere, an attitude, the Kurds had a mind, and they acted differently, they didn't go to different parties. First, let's remember that all the parties have Kurds. The second thing is, who is the Kurdish enemy? There is a terrorist organization that has been hostile to Kurds and Turks since 1984: PKK. The PKK also spilled the blood of the Kurds the most. If we had any sensitivity to Kurds' rights and law, first of all, it would have to be an attitude, an attitude towards this terrorist organization, a reproach, a reproach. Why did the PKK do this? To build an ethnic identityist policy, the PKK did so to incite enemies against one another. If we're talking about the brotherhood, the peace, the freedom of the people, we should be objecting to this dirty strategy and the blood spilled on politics over terrorism; it wasn't, it was tolerated. So the Kurdish hostility has been tolerated. Who is the 2nd Kurdish enemy?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0024par0215	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0023par0216	The 2nd Kurdish enemy is the PYD, sir. The PYD hit the Kurds head north of Syria. Have those who talk about Kurdish rights and law opened their mouths and said anything about the rights and the law of the Kurds there? They didn't. What was PYD doing? In northern Syria, the PYD was a gang, a terrorist organization that worked as a tool for a strategy that would bring the Turks, Kurds, Arabs and Persians together in this Middle Eastern geography and open them up into imperial dreams. Those who talked about the rights of Kurds, the law of peace, should have objected to this dirty politics; they didn't. There's a Kurdish hostility. The Kurdish enemy is Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Those who object should also object to these dirty games. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0024par0219	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0025par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, for the record, I'd like to make a very brief statement on two matters. The first is about the Court reports. We've read the Court reports, not just the ones in this budget period, but the ones before. Court reports have made it very clear from the first term of trustees, from the period of trustees appointed in 2016 to the period of the drafting of those Court reports, that corruption, irregular spending, and the Court reports are in the middle. Second: During this period, when the Plan and Budget Commission was debated, the Court's president pointed to criminal complaints concerning 2017, 2018, and 2019. In 2017, 31 criminal complaints were filed -- if I can't remember correctly -- had been filed and had been questioned as to the term of trustees. That's the point I wanted to point at. The reports are there, we can all look at them together again, and we'll discuss them in the coming days. Second, it's about Kurdish hostility; we discuss it a lot, we express it with various concepts. The issue for us, sir, is that the trustee appointment continues, so it hasn't stopped, and so far, 27 of our municipalities have been appointed trustees. Now, whoever is giving up the Kurdish people's will in the election, who is destroying the Kurdish people's right to choose and be elected, who is ignoring the law and justice of the polls, they are actually taking a step towards not recognizing the people's law. We're basically pointing to this and...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0026par0225	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0025par0226	...go to the question today, Diyarbakır, Mardin, Turkey, Hakkari, Şırnak, everywhere. Ask who is applying enemy law to you, who is giving you your rights? Ask them, I assure you, who will point to power regardless of whether or not there are any party voters; this is the mood on the street. We carry the street's mood, the Kurdish people feel, hear, and tell you that we want to give up these hostile policies and practices, that's what we're really arguing about. Today's practices are our interests. We're developing policies against the practices of power. We're trying to tell you that we don't know what power does, that we don't accept it, because that's the spirit of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0026par0233	Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the second speaker, Co-Chair and Van MP Mr. Sezai Temelli. Here you go, Mr. Permanent. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0027par0237	Mr. President, before I begin to talk about the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018-Year Central Management Computing Law Proposal, first of all, I salute all my friends, especially Dear Figen Yüksekdağ and Denizhattin Demirtaş, who were not among us today due to a coup against democratic politics. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I salute our co-mayors, city council members, and members of the city's general assembly, who have been unfairly, unlawfully, held hostage in the Gultan Kışanak and Selçuk Mizrak person supported by the Kurdish people with their strong will. Again, on behalf of Sebahat Tuncel and Aysel Tugluk, I give my regards to all of our party leaders, who are being held hostage to disregard the will of the Kurdish people, to our members here on behalf of our party and our people. Yes, the answer to the dispute of Kurdish hostility is our friends who are in prison today. Once again, I greet all my friends in prison with love and respect. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the 2020 central management budget is a withdrawal budget, yes, a withdrawal budget. The budget is not just an account plan, it's essentially an economic political text. When you look at the 2020 budget, you see the lack of peace, of social peace. If you look at this budget, you'll see that we've been deprived of your common wealth, total poverty. When you look at this text, which has lost its ability to be budgeted, you see the lack of democracy. We do not accept the 2020 central management budget and the mentality behind it in order to build social peace, democratize the republic, defeat poverty, produce and share your common wealth with justice. First of all, this budget, which has been brought before parliament, ignoring the will of Parliament, has been prepared by a fundamental approach that makes the problems grow, makes them unresolved, unresolved, let alone contribute to the solution of existing structural and historical problems. Today's government is seeking to mortgage the will of the Assembly, which has become a trustee's approach to the will of the people. This Parliament must carry the right of budget to its consciousness, most of all, that it is a social and constitutional right that cannot be transferred. Without a doubt, this House consists of representatives of the peoples. Representatives, these are the people who need to be the most sensitive to this right-to-be. Today's system continues to attack the most fundamental rights and democratic politics, ignoring this right. The budget has been drafted outside parliament and transferred to Parliament, including the right to choose and be elected. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, first of all, we need to have the most basic function of creating a Parliament; this is the right to budget. Without this, it is not possible to talk about the definition of our responsibility to society. Today, the will and the mind behind the 2020 budget seek to sever this representation relationship. This mindset, which ignores all democratic mechanisms in its longing for a ruling regime, has destroyed the main function of parliament with a new system; it has severed the parliamentary-budget bond. The House can't give up that right and responsibility. Today's government has suspended budget law -- as in other legal regulations -- to flee the legal state, constitutional state, and democratic politics. Peace, social peace, political peace and economic peace can be found primarily by taking care of parliamentary law, budget law. We must stand together against war, poverty, violence. It's the greatest responsibility and duty that stands before the chosen ones under this roof. Remember, we must defend society against war, poverty, violence. For peace and social peace, we must reclaim the principle of peace and peace. In the dorm, in the region, we must all get rid of the controversial understanding of peace. Turkey has no foreign policy today, I'm afraid. Yes, Turkey needs foreign policy today. Turkey's lack of foreign policy is typical nudity on the Syrian issue today. Today foreign policy and domestic policy must be produced from a place that sees one another. Today, unfortunately, Turkey's lack of foreign policy also creates the most important blockages of domestic politics in Turkey. Turkey also lacks foreign policy; it is geostrategic and insensitive to geopolitical developments, unable to produce politics against all these developments. Today's understanding, which approaches Syria with the code of a hundred years ago, with the understanding of a hundred years ago, has actually led Turkey to a serious deadlock. When we look at it today, it is Turkey's biggest problem that violence in state monopoly under the name of security policies has become a concept of lawlessness or even a sense of governance; we must prevent it. We must create the legal state, the constitutional state, the balance control mechanisms together without wasting time. We have to overcome the end of domestic and foreign politics, the failure of power, the inability to govern. Tekchi, the trustee is the time to save this House and this community from understanding. Finding the way and the way to do this is a co-worker's assignment for us. We must maintain pluralism and act with a free sense of politics. Remember, this path to disaster is not fate, but the result of the bad policies and strategies of today's government. Mr. President, good lawmakers, if the agenda of politics and society in a country is constant lawlessness, injustice, and authoritarianity, then that country is no longer governable. This failure crisis deepened with the presidential system, and in just a year and a half, Turkey pushed the country into the category of non-democratic regimes and transformed the country into an open prison. In addition to this political crisis, the economic crisis has deepened, a bureaucratic monster has been created and institutional capacity has collapsed. After this collapse, the rising court regime is stepping forward for the eternal presidency. This deepened bilateral law, which began with the Istiklal Courts, which continued with the state security courts, and made the understanding of the State of Emergency permanent. On one side of this bilateral law is the continuation of the state of emergency, and on the other side, the country is living under an endless OHR regime. The court regime uses extraordinary law to silence opponents, suppress their rights demands. This extraordinary state of law has made civil coups permanent, and as long as this extraordinary law continues, Turkey will never be able to escape coup mechanics. Mr. President, you can't bring to the people anything other than pain and hunger in the sense of the state, who opposes the court's regime, who expresss its opinion, who wants to be organized, who writes in its column, and who objects because it is the target of violence because it is the target of discrimination and practice. Because of the presidential government system and bilateral law, trust in the judiciary in Turkey is at the lowest level in its history. The system that turns the rule of law to the upper hand of the fittest has nothing left to give to society in the name of justice and judgment. And we're clearly saying that if there's no justice in a country, there's no government. No justice in a country, no dream of living together. As the French thinker Pascal put it, the power that does not endure justice is cruel. • The insatiable political ambitions of this regime destroy the state of law and make all areas of democratic life in Turkey a target. Turkey fell to the 110th place in the democracy index today. Yes, Turkey is number 110. Today the press is under a great deal of pressure. Since the trip, the public has continued to watch pelican documentaries. Presses for journalists in Turkey are increasing day by day. Journalists in Turkey receive their awards in prison, you know. We're in the 157th place on the freedom of the press index. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the pro-capital policies of the court regime are more anti-employee than anyone in history has ever seen in power. This understanding, which prohibits workers' right to strike, has made Turkey one of the 10 worst countries in the world in terms of workers' rights. Every worker who has been encouraged to work unsecured and flexible, has been attacked by a massive attack on the streets, life has been turned to hell for the poor, the oppressed, and the workers. Labor killings have become the statistic of everyday life. In November, at least 126 workers died in the first 11 months of 2019. Only 1,754 workers were killed in the mines during the AKP period. This understanding has as much misogynism in its capillaries as it does in the enemy of workers. Social gender inequality is increasing day by day. Death or slavery imposed on women? The dilemma of the presidency is the sign of the government system. These male, sexist, and misogynistic policies, which increase male violence against women, are our primary responsibility to throw them in history's garbage bin. [[Applause from HDP rows]] This system is also an enemy of nature. Nature, culture, and historical infamy have gone to extremes, turned into looting. From the Kaz Mountains to Hasankeyf, from Afrin to Munzur, forests, mountains, flowing beds, underground riches, lakes are plundered in accordance with the economic and political interests of power, and no natural resources left to plunder. Social, economic and cultural values of our people who have lived in harmony with nature for centuries have faced serious destruction as a result of the policies of power. Since the April 16th referendum, power has made fun of our minds. The AKP, where Erdogan is President-General in this country, has made law on thermal power plants with lawmakers belonging to its party. Yes, then AKP President Erdogan vetoed it. All those who gave the bill proposal in the vote cheered for the apocalypse and the veto. It's not a joke; it's not a comedy; it's a tragedy. The last tragic story of the fact that the people and institutions of Turkey cannot be managed is this case of thermal power plants. Furthermore, when we look back on these thermal power plants, we also see that Turkey does not actually have an energy policy. While energy policies worldwide are restructuring to cure the climate crisis, Turkey's energy policies are stuck in a looting mind; they continue to plunder nature, Turkey, and the world. Mr. President, the presidential government system is a system built against freedom. Yes, and unfortunately, according to the freedom index for all the states of the world, we're number 114. While creating an unfree Turkey, this system wrapped up the decrees of the law, saying, "Allah's grace!" These decrees were used to protect the political foot of the coup and silence anyone who opposes the court regime. The language of hatred for peace-seeking academics was not enough, and they wanted to be expelled and destroyed. The honor of these people who were expelled from their jobs in order to show mercy to the 12th of September algebra practices was intended to be dishonored. However, they continued to survive and fight as the honor of this people. Peace academics are the bright faces of the peace demand and the struggle to live together. The court's regime must know that as persecution grows, defeat approaches, as persecution grows, so does resistance. There's no way that this political environment could continue, where so many people were victimised by pressure policies. This cruelty and rant will not go on. There is not a day left for the people of Turkey to lose with this system. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, isolation practice, war policies and trustee appointments are illegal and illegal policies that the government wants to prolong its life span. It is not coincidental that these three printing policies should be implemented simultaneously. These three pressure policies, which have become a device for the continuation of the current power, are futile mouth-to-mouths for power to continue its political life. The current political power is trying to survive on these three applications today. Lockdown is an act that ignores the state of law. The isolation policy is a sign of the suspension of the law, the continuation of the state of emergency. This practice is the actual practice of the suspension of laws in Turkey. Therefore, isolation is directly linked to all the illegal policies and practices of this government. Lockdown has become an important instrument of power in the normalisation of rights violations, injustices, war policies. Therefore, the removal of the lockdown means opening the way for the re-establishment of law in Turkey. Justice can't be established in this country unless law enforcement is questioned as a basis for isolation. The law, which has been annulled by isolation, also eliminates the democratic legitimacy of power. Continued war policies and finally the attack on northern and eastern Syria are nothing more than insistence on unresolving the Kurdish problem. The last attack on northern and eastern Syria is also the last example of the unresolved policies that power exports to the Middle East. Together with power, international forces, who have played a role in this attack, are similarly unable to form a policy other than the war on the Middle East. The current government, which insists on isolation, looks forward to a war where this state is the quarterback. However, the solution to wars and conflicts that continue in Turkey and the region is not in Sochi, nor in Washington, where the Kurds are ignored; the solution is in this land, as long as the koster works. [[Applause from HDP rows]] When the impulse collapses, the possibility of negotiation is no longer available. When this power collapses, it will again dominate this country, this geography, and the solution will surely emerge through a democratic negotiation process. The last attack of power is nothing more than an attempt to transform the democratic structure of Rojava, along with the colonial imperialist forces around here, which have displaced the peoples like they did in Afrin. These policies are the basis for inter-governmental conflicts. The statement that power will build a safe zone and place refugees here has been read by the world as an effort by the world to carry out the invasion of northern and eastern Syria autonomy. The entire world, especially Kurds, sees the Kurdish hostility of the current government as the main reason the civil war in Syria remains unresolved. Mr. President, valued MPs, the only solution to the Syrian crisis is political dialogue and negotiation. The people must decide what kind of solution will be developed in Syria. Imperialists and monogamous, sectarian states must respect this solution. The understanding of governance found in northern and eastern Syria is an important model for the construction of peaceful life together in Syria, which has been the center of war for eight years, and in the Middle East, under the rule of oppressive authoritarian states. This will, and the new model of life that emerges here, is also a model of Middle Eastern peoples living together in equal, democratic and peaceful ways. Dear MPs, trustee appointments are the most evident indicator of the totalitarian regime, which the AKP's government, which wants to consolidate its new regime in the region, wants to implement throughout Turkey. The appointment of trustees is not an administrative and legal procedure, but an ideological orientation, a management technique, an understanding of governance and a totalitarian regime. With the appointment of trustees, the people's will was sought to be seized, the basic principle of democracy, the right to choose and be elected has been suspended. Thus, the practice of trustees is not only a gain of will, but also a violation of city rights. This extortion and right violation is a process that extends from the Shark Islahat Plan to the public inspectorial office, from the State of Emergency to the governorship of the district, and finally to the trustee appointment. We've made several statements about the corruption of trustees. We have documented everything from the royal wannabe of the trustee in Diyarbakır to the gift received by the trustee in Mardin. There's still no explanation for the gifts. Besides, they're just cartoons. The extent of corruption is far beyond our projections, but you have blocked your ears and continued to deceive the people. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, your destination with absolute isolation, occupation and trustee policies is nothing more than to play mapping on the imperial forces' desks. The Kurdish people cannot afford to be without status for another century. The Kurdish problem is now a global problem. Therefore, the solution to this problem now requires realistic foreign policy and a will that can solve this process, which does not exist in today's power. Mr. President, valued MPs, the economic crisis is deepening. Our reduced bread and taxes we pay and bills we can't pay, debt papers, bankruptcy, executions, each one of them describing the great disaster of this system. The presidential government system is a plague. This unmanageable understanding has spread its plague on each and every one of us as an economic crisis. With the crisis deepening, Turkey's economy of corruption and irregularity has emerged. Today is December 9th, World War Against Corruption Day. Turkey is ranked 78th in the Corruption Index of 2018. Turkey is not fighting corruption, it is making corruption a rule. The crisis on one hand, corruption on the other, has left citizens facing more debt and cost of life. Today there is no one left in Turkey who does not owe money. As of 2019, citizens' debt to banks reached $575 billion. Today, in the last year, 1,250,000 citizens have been executed. The total number of execution files has reached 22 million. With public-special partnership, this country's resources are being looted. The city hospitals, which were presented as a big commitment to the name of the hospital -- which is a subject we should be ashamed of -- could be guaranteed a patient -- with the three-year budget of these partnerships, there might not be a county without a hospital. The citizen is in debt, the citizen will be sick, of course, with this debt, so you're making that guarantee very comfortable. City hospitals receive 10 billion, 610 million liras in 2020. In the last three years, it has risen to $19 billion, $300 million, and a total of $870 billion that city hospitals have been carrying on in 25 years. This notion that's hijacking your health rights is nothing more than a grand theft, corruption. The roads and bridges are different; no. Those who pass the Osmangazi Bridge pay, and those who don't. If you're going all the way to Izmir, the amount you're going to pay points to a mental eclipse. This system is such a system that if you pass, you won't have to worry about it. Half the 100 lira electricity bill you pay is tax. We're almost world champions in tax injustice. Tax injustice has reached an unprecedented level in the country. The percentage of indirect taxes is 70 percent. There's no OECD country where you can find that number. The OECD average is 40 per cent -- in this sense, indirect taxes are being discussed in the world -- and we have reached 70 per cent. There's no justice in taxes, there's no horizontal justice, there's no vertical justice. What is horizontal and vertical justice? Now you will look at one another. Yeah, because you don't know the tax release technique. The inequality of the court's regime has become the ament of the regime. Turkey has a terrible income and an inequality of wealth. In 2000, the richest one-percent slice has 38 per cent of national wealth, while now it has 54 per cent. When you look at the revenue distribution, Turkey's 20 per cent group with the highest income has 48 per cent of the total income. So, what does the minimum 20 percent of my slice get? 6.1 percent. Yes, you see a very serious injustice. This is injustice in the tax underlying injustice, a tax system that does not provide horizontal and vertical justice. Extortion of taxes and public resources returns to this country's people as inflation, and power does nothing but create poverty queues against inflation. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, there's debt, taxes, executions on one side of the economic crisis, and there's waste, interest economy and pro bonoism on the other. You know that story about the interest falling, he's been coming since he figured it out? The interest rates are going down, interest costs are going up. Yes, we have reduced interest rates by 10 points. After saying, we see a dramatic increase in both the budget and the interest loads paid by citizens. You're doing a conversion, but since you're increasing the loads, you're actually dragging the entire country's future into a bigger debt pit because you don't know the cost of resources being uploaded to society. Economic management has become a world of lies, a world of plunder. See, inflation has dropped 15 points. The lie explains the world very well. How can inflation drop 15 points in a country where everything's price is up? You have to ask yourself that question one more time. The interest is rising in the budget. We're looking at the costs of the budget, we're looking at the structure of the budget, and interest rates are dropping and inflation is dropping, but despite all these decreases, we're still a fragile economy. We can never get out of the fragile five. The other fragile four are changing from time to time, but Turkey is the most stable country in the matter, never leaving the fragile five. Why couldn't you get past the middle income squeeze? Because since you're holding the whole economy hostage to corruption and looting, you can't get past the middle income squeeze. Remember, no economic justice, no social peace, no economic peace. Mr. President, when you look at the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, you see a huge discrepancy. Yes, the accounts are incoherent, there are errors in the accounts, there are projection errors, but beyond all that, there are actually very serious errors and inconsistencies in the approach, in the political sense. The presidential government system would have to be filmed. After the 31st March coup, after the coup of democracy on March 31st, the system suffered a concussion. The ruling party said they were going to do an MRI, and the results of the MRI are still not out, but if you look at the 2020 budget, you'll see this MRI. Yes, the 2020 budget is the MRI of the presidential government system. This budget, which lacks public consent, also shows how deep economic and political crises have reached. Look, there's talk of black holes. Do you know when the black holes were mentioned? In 2005, when the Social Security Agency Act came out, it was said: "We're going to close black holes. We're going to look at the social security system where we are today, there's no black hole, there's no black hole, there's no black hole. So today, the reality that we're facing today is actually a black pit reality, where we're facing 2020 budget proposals. We're dealing with a sense of power that prioritizes the war budget, spreads violence into every area. This idea of power is reflected in this budget. Your destination with drones, SIHAs, bombs, pepper gasses will be nothing more than to deepen tensions and dissolution in the Middle East and Turkey. The 2020 budget is also a looting budget. It's full of pens that don't know where or how to spend them. Yes, there are some pens, such as these $2 billion, $735 million in covered funds, funds for non-profits, and so on in this budget. For example, the budget of the Judges and Prosecutors' Council has 410,000 liras in the transfer pen for nonprofits. Why? There's no explanation. You can't supervise this. These and similar expenditures that violate the principle of transparency require explanation. Backup funds have a 2% limit, reaching 7.2 per cent in 2018. Overpayment has been dramatically increased. Do you know when you can spend on the grant? What does Law 5018 say? You haven't read it. ▪ You can do it during the war, he says. You spend overpaid for war, people say there's war. You take people into custody and arrest them. Well, you're doing it. Here's the document. If you look back at it, you'll see the war. This budget has culminated in tax injustice. This budget, in fact, has attacked every resource in the country without prejudice. I'd like to remind you, valuable lawmakers: There were 107 funds in the Motherland Party, and the funds had created huge losses on the country's economy because it was out of control; it had been a blessing to you to eliminate the funds, to reduce the funds. Yes, and you're very proud of it. You've narrowed down the funds, but you've deceived the public again, you've extended the funds to huge sizes. You have a lot bigger funds than those 107 funds. There's an unemployment benefit; it's a fund for unemployed people, and it's used for capital. There's an asset fund; the asset fund's capacity is 200 billion dollars. Not 107 funds, 1.107 funds can't handle the asset fund. And what law do you do that based on? In fact, funds are about avoiding budget control. The funds are to smuggle the people's resources out of the control of representatives of the public. This is the economy of corruption; this is the economy of plunder. All this tells us is that the state's financial crisis is growing. When you look at the budget deficit, when you look at the cash deficit, when you look at the cash deficit, when you look at the debt figures, you see that the government's financial crisis is growing. That's the economic understanding that raised the state's financial crisis, that's the war policies, that's the trustee regime. Thus, it is not possible to correct this economy unless it opposes the trustee regime, opposes war policies. The serious size of the budget deficit is actually showing us where the economy and society will be dragged for the next term. You were bragging about the extra interest, which was something that made society poor, and now you're giving out extra interest. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we will claim the budget rights first to claim all our rights. So in order to maintain our budget rights, we invite all our people here today to fight together. We're going to have to work with workers who have been exploited and whose work has not been paid back; the unemployed and desperate young people; the farmers who are becoming increasingly poor and in debt; the farmers who have been living in retirement for years because they've been paid more and more waste; those who have to work every day, even after a lifetime of retirement; those who are living and studying under the worst conditions and trying to read; those who are trying to read the government's loan; those who have become unemployed; those who can't afford to pay their bills; those who are living in retirement; those who can't pay their bills; those who have to work in different forms; those who have to work for years; those who are forced to work, and those who have been denied their jobs, and those who are left behind by the government, and those who are left behind by the law, and those who are left behind by the law, and those who are left behind by the same means of the law, and those who are left behind by the law, and those who are left behind by the law, and those who are left behind; those who are left behind by the same means of those who are left behind; those who are left behind; those who are left behind by the same means of the law, and those who are left behind; those who are forced by the law, and those who are forced by the law, and those who are sufferings, and those who are forced by the law, and those who are forced by the law, and those who are forced by the same means, and those who are forced by the same means, and those who are forced, and those who are forced, and those who are forced, and those who are forced by the same means, and those who are forced by the same means, and those who are forced by the same means; those who are forced, and those who are forced by the same means of the same means of the same means, and those who are forced by the same means by the same means of the same means of the same means of the same means of the same means; those who have been forced by the same means; those who have been forced by the law, and those who are forced by the same means of the law; those who have been forced by the same means of the law; those who are forced by the same means of the law; those who are forced by the same Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we repeat once again our call for democratic politics to create conditions for discussion and solutions. We want to once again emphasize that politics is not hostility and short-term vote hunting, that these narrow and simple accounts jeopardize the future of the people of Turkey. The only way to solve problems in this country is democratic politics. Therefore, for social peace, political peace and economic peace, we, the HDP, repeat our call for democratic politics to all social and political parties in front of Parliament once again. The 12 September Constitution, written to mortgage the future of the people of Turkey, is still alive today. This constitution is a constitution that is separated from the reality of the people, calling it one man, one sect. Today, the AKP's government is constantly trying to stand by patching this Constitution. People of different languages and religions in this country, the nature, water, rights and law of this country, need another partnership agreement, a social agreement. The name of this contract is the (democratic) constitution. To reach the democratic republic, where Turkish is Kurdish, Kurdish is Arab, Arab is not superior to Armenian, the people's budget is not averted by anyone, justice, politics is based on democracy, will is owned by the people, the Constitution must be created in order to change social understanding.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0028par0285	For good, I'll add one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0027par0287	We, in order to implement the democratic constitution, to live in the common country and democratic republic, versus the trustee's understanding of all kinds of pressure and custody over the democratic political institution, once again, we call the challenge here, we repeat our call for early elections. [[Applause from HDP rows]] If this Parliament does not want to deny itself and wants to retain its will, it must immediately bring to the public this understanding of power, which is the biggest obstacle to the people of Turkey. As HDP, we believe in the sovereignty, justice of the peoples of Turkey and the demand for democracy against all pressures of power. Those who have a problem with this country, who think about the democratic future of this country, realize that it is time to implement the democratic constitution and build the democratic republic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0029par0292	Complete, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0027par0293	For all these reasons, with all these feelings, I say once again that we will vote no to the 2020 central management budget, and I salute everyone once again with respect and hope.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit03spe0029par0295	Thank you. Dear friends, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0029par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party group, the president and Izmir MP Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu are in charge. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0007	Thank you, Mr. President, dear lawmakers. My dear friends, in fact, we need to sit down and settle a reckoning as Parliament. What are we doing right, what are we doing wrong? What is parliament, what is its function, what is its authority, and shall we or shall we not transfer these powers to someone else? What is democracy, what is law, what is rule of law, what is justice? Sometimes we don't get enough of the truth to reflect on each other in vicious debates. But we are all human beings, and we all have a conscience, no one wants a child to starve, no one wants poverty, no one wants poverty; everyone wants happiness in every house. In fact, it has to be the common goal of all lawmakers who form Parliament, and so it is. But sometimes we get to the point where we can't use our will, our free will. And because we can't use it, we're also under pressure and influence, unfortunately, to place the Parliament's mandates elsewhere. My dear friends, the emergence of democracy begins with a very simple question: who will exercise sovereignty? Will the king use it, use it as a king, use it as a king, use it as a family, use it as a family, use it as a person, or do sovereignty belong to the nation? After long fights and heavy costs have been paid, democracy is our unconditional condition of the nation. That's what we've already done, we've written to Parliament, it's a sovereign nation. In the Constitution of 1921, in other constitutions, in the constitutions of coups, and in the last Constitution, it's the nation's unconditionalness. And who, in the name of the people, will wield this sovereignty, and how? Is he going to use one person for the sake of the people, or is he going to use the powers that balance each other? In all modern democracies -- no matter what the regime -- there is a rule known: authority is given to three bodies that control each other in the name of the nation; legislation, judgment, execution. It's the duty of the law to live. The task of the executive body is to monitor whether or not the laws we make are being implemented in accordance with its purpose. What about the judicial body? The judicial body will also conduct and oversee us. Thus, a balance of powers is created, so authority does not default on one person. When authority defaults on one person, it's authoritarian, it's been said since Montesquieu. No matter what you open the book on constitutional law, that's where you see it. In our case, the use of authority in the Constitution shall not be left to any person, group or class, in any case, in accordance with Article 6 of the Constitution. No one or the body can use a government authority that does not take its source from the Constitution. Is it true? Right. Is it supposed to be? Yeah, it's supposed to be. My dear friends, let me begin with a small matter. We're giving one of the Parliament's powers to the executive body, and we're going to have to monitor and monitor whether the executive body is acting according to our laws. How do we check it? Let me read from the Constitution again, my dear friends. The question inscribed in Article 98 of the Constitution is the simplest of them all. Lawmakers make written motions for information from the executive body or for the executive body to transmit accurate information to them. The orals are up, no more verbal questions, we've given you one more authority. We're filing a written question motion. According to the Constitution, the executive body must answer the written question motions within 15 days at the latest. It's not me, it's the Constitution, it's the people, it's the will of the people. If the congressman asks you a question, you'll answer it in 15 days. My dear friends, the number of motions answered during the 26th term has not been answered by 10.99 per cent, or 90 per cent. The number of questions answered during the 27th term is 8.19 per cent. So the executive body says, "O Parliament, I'm sorry, I don't care about you, I don't even answer your questions." Now, to your conscience, I say: "Have you not accepted this Constitution?" Did we not accept this Constitution? According to this Constitution, shouldn't the executive body respond in 15 days? Why aren't they answering? Why isn't it given? Then what value do you have as a congressman? If you're not even being answered by the executive body, tell me, what is the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? I must object to that too, and the MPs from each party must object. ▪ There should be no such disgrace. He should be able to say it. It's true, I admit, in 15 days, there may not be an answer, there may be some questions that may not be available in 15 days, but then the relevant body, the relevant ministry, writes an article to the Turkish National Assembly, saying: "We can't answer in the process because we need to gather this information, give us some time. It comes after that, it doesn't come after that, my friends. Another important matter: My dear friends, what we call "budget" is a serious event. So Parliament says to the executive body using budgetary rights: you're going to collect this much tax, you're going to spend this much, I'm going to draw your limits in budget law. Why? The Constitution gave that authority to Parliament. The authority to impose taxes is the Parliament's because the tax, according to the Constitution, is laid down by law, is lifted by law. Well, in that case, they'll get paid, and they'll be able to borrow money. Parliament has set the limit of your debt, so how much will you owe? A declaration like that, as your head says, can't borrow an executive organ. He says, he paints it, too. They come here and tell us where the money is spent: we're going to spend this much money here, here, here, here. We're going to put our hands on our conscience and say yes to this budget if he's spending the money there. If they don't fit in, then Parliament will exercise its control once it gets here. With what? Not by budget, but by precise account law. Because we've given the budget the authority, which shows us exactly where the money is spent, but our misfortune is that this Parliament, the previous parliaments, will discuss the budget, they will not discuss the exact account law. But it's the exact law of accounting that needs to be discussed. How much did the executive body use that I gave him, did he use it in his place, did he use it right, or did he use it wrong? We throw the exact law of accounting aside, and a year later, we sit down and argue for a long time about what to do. There is another important issue: Up until now, until the final amendments to parliament, the person who came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and offered the budget is a chosen person, behind which there is national will. The national will can only say: "If you stand on this stand, you will speak." Why? He will answer the chosen ones to the most important element of national will. The person who came here to offer the budget is a government official, not elected, not a will behind it. Does your conscience accept that, my dear friends? Do you allow a public servant to come to this stand and tell you about the 2020 budget, to tell you about the 2018 Bill of Accounts, to ask you for votes? (CHP cheers) Well, what about democracy? What about the national will? I thought we were talking about people's will. Normally, Mr. President has to come here, his own budget, to present the budget. A civil servant offers the budget, but Mr. Erdogan is outside, speaking at another meeting. What does it mean? I have lead soldiers in Parliament. Whatever I say, they raise their hands and lower their hands, so I've even got the authority to go to the House, and I don't even want to go. Why should I go, I'll stand there for hours. He says so. Who? That's for Parliament. If you have a conscience, you need to call it pause. Whose budget is this? The budget for 82 million. You're going to get service for 82 million, you're going to collect taxes at 82 million, but a government official is going to come in here and present this budget; no. In the history of this bench, government officials have not come to offer a budget. What do we say? We call it the Veteran Assembly. Why the Veteran Assembly? It is the Parliament that rules the National Liberation War. Gazi Mustafa Kemal has even given Ataturk the power of commander-in-chief three months. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk comes and speaks after winning the war from this council bench, my dear friends. You know what he says? On October 4, 1922, I was glad to have you back, after a profound parting in my heart. Praise be to the Lord, the saint and the holy cause, which we have entrusted to the arms of our armies, has come to a happy end, which shows that the place of your desire for safety and your trust is ruined. In our darkest and most unfortunate days, the determination and conviction of our House, like a steep and treacherous rock, have always preserved the opportunity to achieve this bright development. I am pleased that I have carried out your commandments with loyalty and obedience, as a soldier at the head of our Parliament's armies, who places the people's destiny in the direction of hope, order instead of despair, determination and faith instead of hesitation, and a whole body of creation out of absence. How does he glorify the House? Now, it's been so long, there's no one elected to come to this Veteran Assembly and present the budget. What happened to democracy? Where is this democracy? Where's the respect for the will of this nation? My dear friends, there's something else, we say the appointed ones don't have custody. We've always complained about the guardianship of the appointed, and the most complaints have been made by the AK PARTY Group. Custody... none of us can accept any custody over this Parliament. There may be differences in opinion between us, there may be arguments, there may be different solutions to different events, to solving problems, but we can never accept custody over this Parliament. Here today, a government official's budget has reduced the executive body's custody to Parliament. That's not true, guys. A chosen man sits here like a hero, defends his own budget, tells him how to bring it. Another matter, my dear friends, is also very important: We have changed the regime; it doesn't matter whether you call it the system or the regime. What used to happen? When the president went abroad, he was represented by another chosen person. Who? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Who is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? He is chosen by the vote of the nation and sits in the office by the will of Parliament. But now, when the President goes somewhere, who represents him? He's a civil servant. Where's the will? Where's the national will? Where's the respect? So where is he? That's not true either. Our President, the President of Parliament, is elected by national will. It can't be as natural for the president to represent him when he goes somewhere, at least until he gets back, to run his business, but it doesn't happen, so we have to maintain our sensitivity. My dear friends, the budget has arrived and the audit of the budget... so when I say 2018, the final results of the account, 2020, the projected targets, budgetary targets... how much taxes will be collected here, how much expenses will be made, all of that is clear. I have just stated that Parliament considers constitutional and legal boundaries when it gives this authority to its executive body. There is a clause in the Constitution concerning the final account and budget law, Article 161, which says: The grant given with the central management budget shows the limit of the amount available. The budget law cannot be judged as to how much can be spent on the presidential decree. Why? The Constitution also restricts the President's authority, says: "Yes, I'm giving you money, you're spending it, but you can't afford to borrow it, you can't pay for it." It says the Constitution. And then there's Law 5018. This is defined as the constitution of the financial system. All the financiers, all the people who run the state, every bureaucrat who handles finances, knows Law 5018. There's a clause there about the use of funds, which says the 20th article: ▪ Public administration can't spend on the funds in its budgets. So the more authority that Parliament has given you, the more funds you can use to the Ministry of Finance, Justice, Internal Affairs, Health, the more funds you can't spend on. The 70th article tells the bureaucrat that if you spend on funds, I'll give you these fines. My dear friends, the Constitution brings the border, Law number 5018 arranges in accordance with the Constitution, and a bureaucrat provides punishment for it if it goes against the regulation. Who did all this? We did it, the legislature. So, my dear friends, what is the Court of Justice in the year 2018, the Court of Justice? The Court, which is called the Supreme National Assembly of Turkey, oversees budget spending on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or does the executive body use the authority we have given it correctly or not? Where? Turkey writes to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly. Therefore, the Court must act jointly with the World Courts, and must follow the same course and method. An event determined by the Court in accordance with the final account law on the 2018 budget states that 63 billion 295 million, 717,486 euros in spending on the government budget of the central administration of 2018 have been determined, and it has been submitted to the discretion of the Supreme Assembly. What do you mean? My dear friends, what did we just say? The Constitution brings limits, says you can't spend overpaid. Law number 5018 brings the same line, and says, "I will punish you if overexpensive spending is done." How much did they spend? How much did they spend outside the will of the nation, outside the will of Parliament? 63 billion -- 63 quadrillion dollars -- 295 million 717,486 liras. What does that mean? What do you mean, National Assembly? Who is this National Assembly? I spend money as I please, and no one can answer to me. He says so. Now, I address your conscience. You're going home tonight. Where is this money being spent? Don't you want to ask your own conscience? The money that is collected is the money of the poor, the money of the unfinished orphan. Where was this money spent? Why was Parliament's will thrown into the garbage bin? Why was $63 billion spent? The Court says I can't punish the executive body. It belongs to the House of Appreciation, Turkey belongs to the Grand National Assembly. I've determined that there's a lot of poor people in this country when you go home and put your head on the pillow, just think about them, just do a conscience accounting. (Cheers and applause from chp rows.) It's not just that, if it's an event, there may be an additional need outside the budget, there may be debt, there may be law. He can spend more than 2%, not more than 2 percent. How many have been overcome? 7.21 percent. Now, we're going to ask the executive agency, but what am I going to ask them? What are we gonna ask them? (CHP clapping in rows) And the chosen one didn't come, so I'll ask on behalf of the people! What am I gonna ask? I'm telling you, I'm calling on your conscience. There is a 7.21 per cent increase in non-constitutional grants. Well, aren't you going to make a noise about it? Aren't you going to say: either friend, we sat here and argued while we were making this law, and we argued for days at the Plan and Budget Commission. What's happening to us? How is it possible that the executive body is ignoring our will? You should object to it. My dear friends, I'd like to talk to you about another freak. If we're going to have an intimate conversation, yes, since we're going to maintain the dignity of this Parliament, the Veteran Assembly, we need to do something else. For the sake of the law, they said: "We have changed the constitution; the executive body will no longer bring a bill, the MPs will draft the law." Whatever regimes there are, lawmakers in no country in the world do not make laws; bureaucrats draft laws in the legitimate state, which is based on righteousness. How are they ready? The instruction on the draft goes out of political authority, and it says: "Make me a draft of the law on this matter. " What does the bureaucrat do? He gets the target; not just the Treasury, not the Finance, but the Ministry of Justice, not him, but the Ministry of Health, not him, but another planning organization; all of these, bureaucrats sit down and make a draft. They present the manuscript to the minister, the minister looks, goes higher, goes to the appointee, and says: "Is this the right arrangement for the purpose of our party?" Why is there such an app? The reason, my dear friends, is that the legislature does not care about everyday, hot issues, we are lawmakers. Where there was a march, where the children were hungry, where the income distribution was broken, etcetera, and so on, we'll question, we'll discuss, but the legislative body won't take the precaution. The legislature makes the law, and it is the duty of the executive body to supervise if they obey the law we do. So the executive body prepares the draft of the law and brings it to us, and we sit down and discuss it. Dear friends, look, last week the 98-point law passed the legislature. How many laws does it involve? 29 laws are a matter of ruling on 1 law. I know for a fact that there aren't a single MP in Parliament who knows 29 laws, and it's only natural that there aren't, friends, and I don't know. Why don't I know? In order to connect 29 laws, I need to sit down and talk to people in the government who know how to do this, who put their lives on the job. It's not like Parliament can't do it otherwise. A draft law comes to Parliament, sits down, argues about it. 29 laws... well, how did we make the Constitution? Here, let's write the penal code together, see how we write it. My dear friends, whether you go to Japan, whether you go to Papua New Guinea, America, Canada, Russia, or Russia; the reason for righteousness in the state is the direction of bureaucracy in line with the goal given by political power. Bureaucracy prepares, brings, and presents appropriate drafts for him. Ha, whether political will likes it or dislikes it, it's the recognition of political will. But there's a technique called law-writing. I'm saying that as an old bureaucrat who's given years of his life to this job. We don't know everything, and I don't know the penal code, I know the tax code, but the tax code, the tax code, the income tax bill, it's the bureaucrats who know how to connect the institutional tax. You make an arrangement, you have to ask the relevant bureaucrat what the reflections of that arrangement are in other laws. Well, do you want the congressman's executive body to do all this? No, it's the legislature. Therefore, we must preserve the reputation of Parliament. Look, the law comes here, I'm asking my friends. My congressman friends are going to defend the law, they signed it, we're supposed to be doing it, but we're stealing a role from the executive body, because we did it. We don't do that. There he is, getting ready again, and from there he comes to you, and we know that we don't know it, and you sign under it, and we give it to you. That's where he's preparing it. They have to prepare because they are the ones who face the problem directly, not us. They face the problem, and they make the legal arrangement for the solution to the problem, the preliminary arrangement, and they come to you, and the minister goes up to this stand and says, "We've made this arrangement to solve this problem." There's bureaucrats behind it, you see in the Plan and Budget Commission, where bureaucrats get memos all the time. Why? The Minister doesn't know everything either, guys. If a person says I know everything, he doesn't know anything. My dear friends, let me rephrase something else, which states that the President of the Constitution is the head of the State. That's right, the President represents the president and continues: Is it true that the President represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish Nation as the President? That's right. Well, my dear friends, in accordance with this description, there is also the text of the oath, article 103, which says what: I swear on my honor and honor in the presence of the Great Turkish Nation and in the presence of history, that I will work with all my might to preserve, honor, and honor the dignity of the Republic of Turkey. Dear friends, let's not kid each other, President, if the nation is going to be President, it has to be neutral, not party president. You can say, "The President of the AKP PARTY." You remove the title of President, he doesn't use it; there's no problem, the President of the EC PARTY." You've authorized it. Over. But I am the president of the community. If he says so, he must be neutral. Why does the President have to be impartial? For my dear friends, the president is state insurance, neutral. Neutrality does not mean that he will not be inclined to a political party or party, of course he will go to the chest, and of course he will vote. We just don't expect 100% neutrality, he has a political opinion, and we respect that. But in the end, if the President is sworn in on neutrality, he can't be president of a political party, my friends. If he is the head of a political party, then he is in violation of his oath, which means the Constitution does not apply. What else? In order to become president, he has to treat all his citizens equally, equal to all political parties. It's supposed to be a hugging language in terms of language, it's supposed to be an inclusive language. He needs to hug everyone, give them warm messages, even if he doesn't like them, his name is the President. You look at it in the morning, noon, evening, an anger, a grudge, an aggression; that's not going to happen, that's wrong. There's never been an app like this, and it shouldn't be. Why is the presidency titled neutral? Because the President will appoint a judge. The president of a party cannot appoint a judge, my friends. If the president of a party appoints a judge, we all look at that judge with different glasses. Now, he's appointing judges to the Supreme Court, other places. Who? The chairman of the EC PARTY is appointing a judge. That's not true. Neutrality, thank you; you'll be seated, thank you. But not if you appoint a judge as president of a party. Think of a judge I've appointed, and think of you as being tried in that court. Come on, you don't believe me, don't you? Ya, the president of the CHP has appointed it. This will definitely decide against us. You'll say. Is it natural to think like that? Yes, it's natural to think that way. Because the leader of a political party can't appoint a judge, if the judge appoints a judge, there's no principle of separation of forces, there's no force, there's no force. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Protecting the dignity and glory of the Republic of Turkey... I don't know if it's been hard on you or not, but as a citizen, it's been hard on me. The letter Trump wrote was never acceptable, never acceptable. No one has the right or authority to insult this nation. The day that letter arrived, either it would be delivered into the hands of the ambassador, or the ambassador of the Republic of Turkey from Washington would be invited from Washington to say, "Take this letter, brother Al, and return it in the same way." What do you mean, I'll put it in my pocket, and I'll return it there? And you won't say anything. What happened to keeping the glory and glory of the Republic of Turkey and the glory of the Turkish nation? This is going too far for me. And I speak to your conscience, that you should take it easy. That's not true, we should all object to such things as Parliament. We can fight amongst ourselves; our flag is one, our country one. We may have different political views, different identities, different beliefs, but we live in this country. We can never allow another person to look at our country differently. You know what saddens me? Not a single sentence came out. This is going too far for me. It should be judged by the harshest and harshest sentences. My dear friends, we've talked about judges - legislation, judgment and execution; the legislature - malum - and the judicial body. There is a decree in the Constitution: the judges are independent in their duties. He says, "Yes, they are independent." In accordance with the constitution, law and law, they judge according to their consciences. It is true and goes on: No body -- no body -- authority or person -- can give orders or instructions to the courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; it cannot send them to the general; it cannot offer advice and advice. It is so clear, it is so clear, the Constitution is so clear. Well, my friends, after the regime changed, the judge was badly injured, very badly injured. You'll say, "What kind of wound did he get? Again, it's a matter of public debate in Turkey, and I'm talking about Father Brunson. Mr. Erdogan came out, gave a speech, said at a meeting of the AK PARTI. He said: "You can't have that terrorist as long as this person is in this body." After using this word, the hall was falling out of applause, friends, all the AK PARTI Års were applauding, the hall was falling out of applause. So what happened? The soul stops, the skin stops, and the minister stops; where's Brunson? Why'd you quit? On what grounds did you quit? (HPP cheers) Now you're going to call me independent of justice in the Republic of Turkey? No, friends, we can all stand before judges tomorrow, but if those judges are not impartial, if they are not conscientious, if they do not believe in the rule of law, how am I supposed to trust that judge? Is it a judge or a judge who gives advice? Look, I'll tell you another example. A German journalist of Turkish origin was in prison for a long time, his indictment was filed overnight, one night; the next day, his trial was discussed, he was released. When he was released, another court's arrest warrant was issued. He was waiting for a plane at the airport, got on a plane, and went to Germany. Now you're going to call me independent of the courts. Now, don't the Germans know, the Americans don't know, the French don't know, the Japanese don't know, the Papua New Guineans don't know? Who's he thanking, Trump? Mr. Erdogan thanks you, not the Turkish courts, but Erdogan thanks you for letting him go. Now, he's gone, he's got a NASA official, he's got people working at NASA, and they're gonna send him away soon, he says. Why? Well, you have your word. My dear friends, are these the only ones? No. On the night of July 15th, this Parliament fell into history. Once again, on the night of July 15th, this Parliament fell into history with a note that fit the title of "Gazilik." While the bombs were falling, while the bullets were raining, Parliament did not close. A lot of people were let in. In that mess, it may be unfair, it may not be legal, but there is one thing: after that, a stock exchange was established, friends. Where's the stock market set up? It's built in law; it's built in lawyers, judges, businessmen. I didn't say it, we were hearing it, but we couldn't say anything because we didn't have the data. A columnist from the morning newspaper says that the bailout exchange has been established, that the cost of release has been determined according to the prisoner's importance and economic power, and that there are private lawyers working on it. When? My dear friends in 2017, on July 14, 2017. Who's singing? Says the author of the Morning newspaper, which we described as the pool media. Then, one of you, an MP, says in 2018, says that Gaziantep has a stock market, that millions of dollars have been returned, that businessmen have been released under the name of the confessor, which is in many parts of Turkey. While the AK PARTY vice president was in custody at his home, while under house arrest, two police officers came, executed him, killed him because he confessed a lot about the stock market. So what's a stock exchange, guys? You give him money, you pay him according to his power and his importance, you release him. I gave an example many times: The bank took away those who passed before Asia, and they put away the one who sent his son to the school of the congregation; and after July 15th, you made the chief king of the man who went and came to Pennsylvania, and helped him, and made money for Bank Asia; and you made the crown. I gave you a name, I gave you a place, you didn't do anything. The prosecutor didn't even file an indictment out of fear, prosecutor. Yeah, what kind of order is that, what kind of thing? Well, I'm not going to argue with that, but I know you guys object to that. That's not true. If it's law, it should apply to all of us, and if it's law, it should apply to all of us. There's nothing for the money, the poor man with no money will go to jail. Why? What justice, what law, what conscience would accept that? My dear friends, one more thing: Mr. Erdoğan's lawyers... I'm calling in loud and clear from here to the Minister of Justice in front of all lawmakers: investigate Erdoğan's attorneys' assets, investigate their millions of dollars. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Once again, saving a man from a trial, with money... it's a shame, it's a sin! Indeed, it is a loss, a sin. They're appointing a judge. They're the most influential people on the Board of Judges and Prosecutors. How can you bring a lawyer to the Attorney General this ashtray, and I'll spill my cigarette? And the Attorney General will come running and put the ashtray in front of you. Is that it, fellas? Is this the right or the right or the wrong? We rebel against it. Who's it for? It's not for CHP, guys, it's not about a party. It's a question of justice, and my problem is your problem, but you keep quiet. At least, if you're not saying anything very clearly, go ahead and talk, go ahead and say it. My dear friends, there are serious lapses in judgment, very serious distortions. Look, I'll give you an example: there's a Law 298, which says: "Everyone can participate in the election; the judge can participate, the lawyer can participate, and the prosecutor can. He wins the election, he becomes a congressman, and if he doesn't win, he goes back to his old job, but the law says that the members of the Supreme Court, the judges, the prosecutors, and those of this profession, if they don't win the election, they can't go back to their jobs. Why? His political identity has now been revealed. Since his political identity has been revealed, you can't go back to your profession. Who? He says it's the law. Who decided that? You guys. So, how is it that a lawyer or a lawyer in the county administration of a party, a lawyer registered to the party, is being appointed a judge? So, what's this law? There are dozens of examples, I'd like to name them, but I don't count them here just because I respect the judiciary. I've got dozens of names. What if you make someone with a party, you, the party, someone with an ID, that's not true. Then change that law, everyone in the election, winner wins, winner goes back to his old place. You're violating the logic of the law, you're corrupting it, you're corroding the judicial body. That's not true, guys. No one can give instructions to judges or prosecutors. The Constitution says so, but I shared a brochure with the public. What does it say in the brochure? Make sure you decide what that means after consultation with the Judges and Prosecutors' Board. I thought no one could give the judge instructions. Make a decision after consulting on the trial. So, if the political authority doesn't allow it, don't evacuate, if the political authority allows it. Dear friends, this has been distributed to dozens, hundreds of judges and prosecutors. It must have come to you, and you must have seen it. In the first place, the Minister of Justice must object. The Council of Judges and Prosecutors must oppose it, but they, sir, we brought it up to this purpose...... for whatever purpose you take it out, don't make decisions without consulting me about it. You're saying it's against the Constitution. My dear friends, another part of the dissolution of the judiciary: If the judge is powered by politics and not by rule, he is the greatest danger. The judge has to decide by law, by constitution, by universal law, by the rule of law, by human rights, by taking power from universal law, by measuring and weighing the scales in his conscience, by making decisions, but if the judge is powered by political authority, we have a serious problem there, my friends. Look, I'll give you an example: I don't have the safety of anyone's life and property in Turkey. I use it very often, and you get angry very often. Because there's no law enforcement. It has to be legal security. It is the independence of the judiciary that ensures the safety of life and property. No one has safety of life and property if the judgment isn't independent. Why? When a judge decides on one person's orders, we have a problem there. Look, dear friends, whether we like it or not, the peace declaration has been signed. How many? 486 academics. They've been kicked out of colleges under a decree of law. The Constitutional Court said it was freedom of expression, and they were all acquitted. Now the executive body won't return them to their duties. Why? I don't enforce judgment, he says. Why? Then what is the function of this court? Why did he make that decision? We all need to sit down and think about it, my dear friends. Look, friends here have also talked about trustee practices. Whether you like it or not, if we have a conscience, if we are on the side of democracy, if we respect the will of the nation, the democracy is an area that we all stand for in common. [[Applause from CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY]] Is the person running for mayor? It's happening. He goes to the prosecutor's office, and he says, "Give me a good attitude paper." The prosecutor looks at it, gives me a good attitude, says, "Yes, you can." He's applying, he's going to the Supreme Election Board. The Supreme Election Board says, OK, you can take the election, there are no obstacles. I'm running for office, I'm winning; wow, you're the winner, and the next day you're suspended. Why are you taking it? On what grounds? Who's buying? It's not a judgment, it's an executive body. The person who comes in with an election is relieved of duty. What were we saying? Wasn't that what we said about custody of the appointed ones? Didn't you say that we should get rid of the guardianship of the appointed? So, how is it that a mayor who comes with the election, who gets the vote of the nation, is relieved of his position, is brought in by the will of the appointed, and he's given the job? So, why did these people go to the box, why did they vote, for what reason? We're angry.....sir, this is from the party or whatever. Whatever party he's from, friends, we have to have a common rebellion, we have to have a common rebellion as a legislature, we have to say it's wrong. There is no judgment, but the court has decided. On the contrary, the judge says, "You can enter my election." Well, we object to that now, that's wrong. The same mistake I said when you, the mayors of the city, were forced to resign. The people of Balıkesir chose him there. You can't force him to resign. We objected to that, too. Why? We defend democracy, friends, democracy is the common denominator for all of us. Without democracy, we wouldn't be here, and if we didn't respect the will of the nation, we wouldn't be here anyway, it wouldn't mean anything. So we have to work together, obviously, on the basics, it's not a party. My dear friends, look, I'm going to read you a paragraph from a speech by the Supreme Court on the anniversary of the Constitutional Court on April 27, 2015. The reason I read this paragraph is that the Constitutional Court's view of the event in an environment where justice is debated has been passed to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. He says that the extent of his judgment to be influenced by institutional political organs and to be separated from the axis of political debates is a great danger. In this sense, the politicalisation of the judiciary will be the end of the legal state. On the other hand, it is dangerous for the judiciary to make decisions that need to be taken politically by acting as a custody body. The judicialisation of politics is the end of democracy. Thus, the politicalisation of the judiciary and the judicialisation of politics are equally dangerous to the democratic state of law. One of the most important constitutional tools to normalize the relationship between custody and politics of the judiciary and ensure judicial independence is undoubtedly the principle of separation of powers. The idea of separation of powers requires limiting the essence of constitutionalism. Where power is not limited to law, fundamental rights and freedoms are at stake. For him we say that no one has safety of life and property, and for this text we say so. That's not what I'm saying, it's the President of the Constitutional Court. As Montesquieu puts it, the sole collection of law, executive and judicial powers would be the end of freedom. My dear friends, we have a serious threat to the economy, so we have a crisis in the economy. There's always this criticism from the ruling wing: "Sir, there's this CHP, the CHP... "E, so what?" We sat with our friends at the very beginning of the crisis, the former bureaucrats who knew how to do it, the people from the academic world. Yeah, this crisis is gonna hit us all. The party of the people the crisis will hit, the "A" party, the "B" party... This crisis is going to hit everyone. ▪ How can this crisis be overcome? Let's sit down and think... We sat down, we thought about it, and we prepared a 13-point text. In Istanbul, I went and shared it with the public at a press conference. 13 articles... What was the first article? In the state, the merit system must be rebuilt. In the state, the merits have been corrupted. Liyat is different, loyalty is different. Liyat is the expert, he's the best expert, which means handing it over to the authorities, which is what I told the government to do. I didn't just say it here, it was the first thing I said when I went to the palace after July 15th. I said, you're finished with the government. Article 2: We said we must move on to democracy, to ensure the rule of law and the security of law. Nobody trusts, investors don't come, investors don't invest. Turkey needs to get out of this atmosphere, and we suggested that. Article 3, ensure the independence of the Central Bank. World financial circles believe the Central Bank of Turkey is not independent. Change this perception, say: The Central Bank is independent, the government gives it a target, using the Central Bank's tools to achieve these goals; that's it. Article four: A rational external resource management must be adopted, a rational external resource management. Don't borrow money from anyone, we've told you that. Article 5: Turn the tenders into Turkish lira immediately with dollar indexes. You said to the citizen: "Turn the dollar into Turkish lira. " Citizens ran, propaganda was made so much that televisions broadcast every day, we go into crisis; so, if everyone is willing to make sacrifices, make the biggest sacrifice. We said turn them into Turkish liras. Article 6: Change the Public Contraction Act. According to his man, there are no tenders, no laws according to his man, no tenders. Well, there's a rule in the government, there's a law, there's a justice, there's a right, it's done according to it. 187 times in 17 years, the bidding laws have changed, 187 times, and we said, "Don't do that." Article 7: We asked the Court to supervise according to international standards, to check on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, not interfere with the Court. Article 8: Maintain budget discipline, there will be no funding outside the budget, because the control of each money will come to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Article 9: This foreign policy has brought us no, change foreign policy. Why are we fighting with our neighbors? Why are we fighting? We had a fight with Egypt. Our ro-ro flights aren't working. Why? Who profited from Syrian politics? The question is, for God's sake, ask your conscience: What state profited from Syrian politics, what state? Two states: America and Russia. What did we do? We brought 3,600,000 Syrians. We've missed the shrine of Solomon Shah. We fled from our own land, our own land, and there is no army against us. We escaped ISIS terror. Yeah, does a government leave their own land? (CHEERING) We left, ran away, and sold it to the nation as a hero. We're running away from our own land, and we're selling it as a hero. God help you! Sir, we've spent $40 billion, and we'll spend $40 billion more if we have to. We said it wouldn't do us any good, change foreign policy, sit down and talk. Why don't we turn this area into a peace zone? Besides, they're all Muslims, all of them, and our relatives. There's Kurds there, there's Kurds there. There's Arabs there, there's Arabs there. There's Turkmen there, there's Turkmen there. There's the Crushers, there's the Crushers. Why did we come to the game of the dominant forces and turn that area into a pool of blood? We said change that. Article 10: Avoid unregistered debts that mortgage our future. Look, they've established the general manager of loans. What was his name in the Ottoman Empire? I mean, the public administration, the debt management, now we've established the general manager of debt. Article 11: Dear friends, correct unfair tax policy, unfair tax policy. My future is now an example of unfair tax policy. Article 12: Switch to production policy. Direct budget policy, monetary policy, tax policy into production, support whoever's producing it. If you move here, if you move towards production, employment, Turkey will be saved, brother, at least we'll be able to overcome the crisis by a little bit, before we face even greater challenges. Article 13: Let Turkey avoid waste, save money. I explained these. You might say: "Sir, 13 articles are missing. Thank you. Sir, 7 of the 13 articles is not true. I would say that's okay, but your President, I explained the 13 articles, and on the same day he's making statements, he's calling out to me: "O Kılıçdaroğlu, now you're with the foreign exchange barons." Who acted with the foreign currency baron? I'm defending Turkey's interests. Who's with the foreign currency barons? I say turn your dollar bids into dollars, your guarantees into Turkish dollars. Who's moving with the barons? [[Applause from CHP rows]] What were we saying? Sir, the CHP is always critical and does not bring suggestions. I believe all of this is true, all of it. Look, dear friends, do you ever wonder how many people get their monthly salary under $2,020 a month? I'll give you the number: 2 million, 136 thousand people. It's their research, not mine. Two million, 136 thousand people get paid under minimum wage. How are they going to get by? The pensioner, the widow, and the orphan, receives 847,643 pensioners, 847,643 widows, and orphans, for less than a thousand liras. How many people have a monthly income under $673 per person, with a monthly income under $673 per person? 8 million, 647, 283 people. He has a pension of less than 2,000 liras, under $2,000, which is 6,850,513 people who have a pension under the hunger limit. Under a thousand lira pensions don't exist yet, yes, but they don't benefit from the raises you give to pensioners. Because their pensions are so low, they don't take advantage of those raises because the raise doesn't cover a thousand lira. I don't know if you know about this. So it goes up to a thousand liras, and we insist and insist on saying... there is no pension under a thousand liras. You said, there is one. Now, if you go to the social security website, you'll see the numbers there, my dear friends. The government's in debt, you've authorized it, but it's in debt. He who borrows gets orders; it's true, he's already taking orders, he's taking orders. Look, dear friends, not to the banks in Turkey, which were paid to foreigners in 2002-2019 -- interest is $173 billion, 55 million; citizens of the Republic of Turkey paid interest to foreigners, a handful of loan sharks in London. Does your conscience agree? My conscience doesn't agree. Why are we paying so much interest? On what grounds? I took out interest payments -- do you know when -- from the beginning of 2019, so this year -- so far. The interest paid in one second -- $596 per second -- the state of the Republic of Turkey pays $596 interest per second, $3,362. The interest paid in a month -- I have it in a minute, I have it in an hour, I have it in a day -- 1 billion 545 million, 209,370 dollars, 8 billion, 700 million dollars in Turkish money, interest is paid in a month. Where's the money going? Why do I ask that question? For 17 years, the executive body that's been running the country has collected $2 trillion in taxes -- right, it's collected the right tax -- has privatized $70 billion -- we have no objection to that, and that's 500 billion in debt. So, where'd the money go? My dear friends, a valued MP, spoke of Zafer Airport. I'll tell you where the money went. Kütahya Victory Airport... the numbers don't belong to me, from the Court report. The airport's built, thanks. We don't call it building an airport. It's done, but it's guaranteed, it's guaranteed. The number of passengers guaranteed from the beginning of 2012 to the end of 2017 is 5,210,383. So, how many people are on the plane? 221,562 people -- only 4 per cent of the projected target, 96 per cent guaranteed. How much is paid, guaranteed money? 26 million 691, 626 euros are being paid. For whom, whose money is paid? Who's getting paid? You're not going to ask me that, for God's sake. Who's going to ask me that? How did you do the math? Who will ask? You're going home tonight and you're going to bed. How do you pay 26 million, 691,626 euros for the money collected from this poor wretch? Do you know how long the warranty period lasts? Twenty-nine years, eleven months, twenty-nine years, eleven months. Oh, what conscience, for God's sake! What am I supposed to say? What do you want me to say? So you won't rebel against it, but what will you rebel against? You won't object, but what will you object to? Pity, isn't it, for the poor wretch's money? [[Applause from CHP rows]] They say: "HPP is always critical." Brother, you're building a hospital, did we object? No, you can do it. You're building an airport, did we object? Yes, you can. You say city hospital, you say bridge, you can do it. We don't object to that. [[You've heard them all from the AK PARTY rows. The voices, the noise from the CHP rows.]] Wait a minute, guys... What's the question we're asking? The question is, how much do you do it for, my friend? Yeah, okay, how much are you doing? Sir, it's a state secret. What do you mean it's a state secret? You gave me a guarantee, and if I don't fill it, the citizen will pay, so you'll pay with my tax. Don't I know that? Then the state secret. What does that mean? Do you know where we learned the cost of city hospitals? We found out on the website of a consulting firm in London. They published it there, so we can give that website to the friends who want it. Then a report was made to the presidency, and the numbers were one-on-one. I don't know, and neither do you. I'm not told, and you're not, but the British know, they know all the numbers.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0031par0077	Well, people knew what they needed to know.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0078	My dear friends, look, when I ask this question about city hospitals, Erdogan says: "What is it, no one knows the cost of city hospitals?" We don't pay from our own pockets. We put years, months, days in here. By running all this time, we're saying you're going to build this hospital. It's called a do-work-development, Mr. Kemal. City hospitals don't know what kind of model they're made with. I mean, we don't pay from our own pockets. It says so. That's right, Mr. Erdogan, you don't pay for it; you pay for it out of people's pockets, out of people's pockets. How much is it paid? In 2018, 6 billion 200 million liras, 9 billion 700 million liras in 2019, 2020 euros -- 18 billion 900 million liras in budgets -- 10 billion for city hospitals. You pay my taxes, you pay my taxes. I ask you, how much did you cost? No, it's confidential. Why is it secret? The more you blow up the bill, the more you rip off the government, that's the do-and-do model. As a former financier, I've bought 100 liras worth of goods for 500. You say, "You put 500 plus profit in the government and you get the money." Isn't it a shame about people? It's a shame about this country, isn't it? My dear friends, you're bidding on dollars, you're guaranteeing dollars, you're charging dollars. Turn it into Turkish lira. We say, "You cooperate with the barons." We are accused. Dear friends, why don't you do it with Turkish lira? Now, they know, it's power gone. You'll be replaced by a publicist power. (CHP) A power that protects the rights of the orphan will come. There will come a power that protects the rights of an unfinished orphan. We'll accept an honest duty to answer to everyone, an honest duty; we'll announce to the world that accountability is an honor, and when we're in power, we'll set up a final account commission, someone from the opposition will come to the head of the final account commission because we'll answer. (CHEERING) We won't be afraid to answer. Do you know what they did because they knew that? If there's a disagreement, I mean, tomorrow, when we ask the city hospitals how do you do it, they'll end up in London, in the English courts, and that's how they did the contract. You know, those were locals, and they were nationals. No natives, no nationals! (HPP) Judge, British judge, court, British court, the case will be held there. Either the contractor is from us, from us, from Turkey, everything is in Turkey, the case will be discussed there. Why? If these go away, what will be our interests? I tell you from here, these will go away, and I will consider it an honest duty to protect the interests of 82 million in this country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, the YIT people have problems, it's true. Do you know how you passed a law from this Parliament? You said we're going to reform social security. We have objected: either it is not reform, but it destroys people. I don't count a lot of things. Since I'm running out of time, I just want you to know that the number of bonuses is full of days, and those who hang out with age can't work, and they can't work, even if they do. Why? Because according to your so-called reform, when they work harder and pay more bonuses, they'll get less salary when they're old enough to retire, less months, do you realize that? You work harder, you pay more bonuses, but when you retire, you get less pensions, which is why they rebel. It's solved with family insurance. Most of you may not have heard of family insurance, but do you know when this Parliament approved the family insurance? 1974. To keep no family from starving, so do you know what family insurance means? You shall not see what the right hand gives you, nor shall you expose the poverty of anyone. We defend it, we defend it for years. And it's not something we found, it's one of the nine insurance branches that the International Labour Organization has agreed to. We'll do that, too, my dear friends. Dear friends, unemployment... we have the Treasury and Finance Minister, who most of the time we describe as the son-in-law to society. Why the debutante groom? Because he's got one hand in the oil, one hand in the honey. He does not know what poverty is, nor what poverty is; neither does he know what hunger is, what is cold, what is heat; he is content, and he has lived like this. At the beginning of this year, he explains: "In 2019, we will carry out 2.5 million new jobs. Today, Turkey is experiencing a revolution in employment. What happened? Do you know how many packages he explained? Ten packs, increase of employment package. He announced each package, unemployment increased, each package announced, unemployment increased. In 2019, we are making a revolution. We are creating jobs for 2.5 million people. There are 8 million unemployed people. The society groom doesn't know how to do it. Instead of explaining that package, I'm asking you to pack up that gentleman, get him out of the Ministry. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, unemployment... there are those who come to the walls of the House and burn themselves, and there are those who want to go up on the roof of the House and commit suicide. My late father used to say, "May God not discipline anyone with hunger." Do you know what unemployment is? Do you know what poverty is, poverty is? How many people know the drama of a father not being able to bring bread into his house? My dear friends, it's not the legislature that's responsible, it's the executive body that's responsible. You give the money, collect the tax. You say. I just gave you the numbers. So, what's it gonna be? You'll have to check him out. When you ask him about his account, that's when Turkey will truly taste democracy. I gave you money, my friend, and what is this hunger, and what is this unemployment? We have to ask together. My dear friends, there is no rule that they will find a job to finish every university. It is a very unfortunate promise. The gentlemen's children may not be a problem when they finish college, but we all know what problems a family has in Anatolia when sending a poor family's child to college, and let him finish that university and have a better life than I do. He won't get a job, but who will? The unemployed who finished college... My dear friends, do you see that person? This is the person who graduated from the Physics Department of Inönu University. That's where this government, this executive body, brings Turkey, that's where it brings Turkey. My dear friends have ruled the country for 17 years, not a year, not five, but 17 years. I showed him a picture of a woman at a group meeting picking up paper from the trash. A woman from the AK PARTY came out of Eskişehir. She said, "Oh, I have apartments." Turns out it wasn't her. Why do you say that? Here are the people who collect paper from the garbage and eat food from the garbage. You all see it when you drive away. They're visible, but invisible; they're visible, but no one cares about their problems. We're dealing with their problems, we have to deal with them. What's the executive organ doing? They don't see it, guys. Why? Gentlemen live in the palace, there's nothing wrong with the palace. Well, how about this? The unemployment lines. See, I asked the executive body the question: How many places have you tested? How many have applied for a job? It's such a simple question, isn't it? We haven't been able to answer that question in months, there's going to be a real number of unemployed, we haven't had an answer in months. And then you say, "Trust in this executive body." No, sir, it's an organ that can't protect people's money, it's an organ that can't defend the people's rights. This executive organ leads thousands of children to go to bed hungry, thousands of children. My dear friends, today is World War Against Corruption Day. I explained Man's Island. What was Man's Island? It was: You start a company in Man Island to avoid taxes in Turkey; then you buy it, you sell a commercial firm to this company for $15 million. A one-pound company buys $15 million worth of goods. Where's the money going? The money is in Turkey. The money goes to the bank, the reference goes to the bank in New York, the bank completes the transaction, comes to Turkey after the transaction has been completed.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0032par0092	You're a prisoner there.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0093	I know, I'll tell you about them. SWIFT records are called the SWIFT recording, where money goes abroad and is processed. The referendum is called SWIFT recording, which is processed in the bank. No bank's record of SWIFT is a fake. No bank is saying it's fake. It doesn't say it's fake. It doesn't say it's fake. We asked the question, "What's been done?" Mr. Erdoğan said: "There is a business sale here." We asked: "What company did you sell?" What company was sold? The groom is there, his son is there, his brother is there, the nephew is there, all there. How is that possible? You know what this is? There was a lawsuit, a restraining order was made on the news first. Why are you making a restraining order? The bank doesn't say it's a fake; the prosecutor did it, it's a fake. Because of the SWIFT recording, the bank abroad does not say that the bank is a fake. All the transactions, as my name is Kemal, are true, but the gag order has come in, and the case has been filed. You know what? The three judges of that trial have been changed, and I have been sentenced to the highest compensation in the history of the Republic of Turkey, but I defend the right of the subject, my friends. Even if I'm not the richest man in the world, even if I'm not the richest man in the world, even if I'm not a rich man, even if I don't have a nickel, I'm not going to be able to eat anything that's forbidden down my throat, and I'm going to defend the rights of an orphan until the end. No court, no office, will ever take away my right to defend the rights of an untamed orphan.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0033par0095	Defend the rights of the workers who have been fired at Bolu City Hall.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0096	You know why? The reason is this: The 7th quarter of the 30th article of the Tax Act of the Institutions was; open it, look. The profits from commercial transactions in the tax gardens are not taxed when they come to Turkey, but the legislative body said: "We will tax it, but the Council of Ministers will publish the tax gardens where money comes from." He said we're going to tax 30 percent. When? Companies tax, 2006, friends, we're in 2019. The Council of Ministers won't release this list. And you don't get a dime of taxes from the 15 million dollars that come in. When you press the electric button, you pay four kinds of taxes, citizen, five kinds of taxes when you turn on the tap, you pay taxes when you take the shroud, you pay taxes when you drink water, you pay taxes when you're loaded, you pay taxes when you take the bread; $15 million comes, you don't pay five cents, and you sit in the palaces, and I won't object. Oh, my God, it's God's right. If they don't, they'll be humiliated, and if they don't, look, if they don't, they'll be damned. I'll defend it to the end. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There are martyrs and veterans, relatives and veterans of July 15th... friends, money gathered. We're asking, what happened to the money? First they threw them at each other, and then in the Bank of One Treasure... do you know what the Bank of One Treasure means? We've transferred the money to the treasure. I thought this was your martyr's money. I thought you said it was someone's. Look, my friends searched the foundation first, they didn't find the foundation; then they set up the foundation after we forced it; then we looked, and the foundation's address was wrong. They said, "Sir, the foundation is at this address. We went to that address, there is no foundation." Where did we get the address? By court order. Then they said: "The court was wrong, and the address was elsewhere." They drew a tarp on the district office. They wrote on it, "The Foundation of Veterans and Martyrs on July 15th." Yeah, there's a little decency in a man, fellas! Look, there's Internet news, it says there's $310 million in money, collected, put in interest, 338 million.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0034par0102	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, I'll give you an extension. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0104	2016-2019, interest in three years is 28.735 lira, interest in three years is 28.735 lira. Yeah, is that a 1% interest? I mean, what's the point of living off a martyr, guys? What the hell is going on? When we ask you that, we don't have to ask you guys, you have to ask me that first. Why don't you ask him? Likewise, in Beşiktas, the charity campaign... has gathered 52 million. How much is 52 million, according to the official's information? It's 58 million, so it's $6,233 lira interest. Yeah, guys, 6 million 233 lira interest. Oh, my friends, how could this happen? Yeah, the martyr's got a point! So, how do you use this money? Last, Mr. President, Tank Palete... I'm just going to ask you a question, one question, one question, one question to your conscience. The largest tank palette factory in Europe is its largest factory. It's worth $20 billion.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0035par0108	Where?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0109	Mr. President, my friends are wondering if you'd be so kind as to give me five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0036par0110	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0111	Look, my dear friends, there's a tank auction going on, so thank you, we have no objection. The first tender is being cancelled, thank you. The second tender is opened; three companies are invited, and one is winning. Did we object? We didn't. They provided extraordinary opportunities for that firm -- the Official Newspaper -- customs exemption, VAT exemption, institutional tax exemption, tax exemption for wages, technical staffing for them; everything was paid by the state. Did we ever object? No. The company that received the tender suddenly left its assigned space, and the Tank Palette Factory was assigned to it. The question is, you're opening the contract. If this is the sentence, I have no objection to the tender agreement: we will give the company who won the contract the right to produce for 25 years at the Tank Palet Factory in Sakarya. I have no objection. Is there such a substance? No. Why not?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0036par0113	Mr. President, I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0114	I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0036par0115	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0030par0116	And what do I object to? Look, dear friends, who asked you about Talip Ozturk? I asked you that question. Look, the person who told me about the incident at the defence industry meeting said to me: "He means Erdoğan, because this meeting is being held under Erdoğan's protection; he tells me how he got the BMC. Can you do it?" I will do as you command. But I may not be able to afford it. With Qatar, we became almost one nation, two states. I thought if you made me partner with Qatar's government and the Armed Forces, we could pull this off. Thank God he called Mr. Emir, and he didn't break it. I sold 50 minus 1 percent of BMC to the Qatar army. I didn't want to do it alone. A crazy Laz partner like me -- Erdoğan recommends me -- Mr. President, I took him with me. -Talip Ozturk - we split it evenly." One tank pallet factory is given to another firm, no contract, according to what law? That's what I'm asking, that's all I'm asking. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not just that, it's not that, dear friends, there's something more painful, there's something more painful, my dear friends. This is the Tank Palet Factory, then signed an agreement on August 21, 2019 -- look, you don't know it, we know it all -- guaranteed profits -- they guarantee profit here, too. Whatever you bring in, you get 12.5 percent profit margin, zero damage. He's doing it with the government's money, plus an advance of 20%. You give the factory, you guarantee the profits, you pay 20 percent advance, you give away all military secrets according to the contract. So, what in God's name is this? I won't say it, but you tell me. Sir, this should all be discussed in the budget. Look, none of this has anything to do with a party, it's all about Turkey, it's about the interests of Turkey. If we're nationalists, we're nationalists when we claim the Tank Palet, we're nationalists when we take care of our army. That's what we think. My sincerest greetings to all of you, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0037par0125	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0038par0129	Mr. President, thank you. We've heard Mr. President's assessment of the budget in a period of 80 or so minutes. If I hadn't listened, he would have taken 40 minutes of these eighty-something minutes directly to criticize the President, and he would have continued indirect criticism at the rest of the time, but the budget, of course, was his own discretion, but he would have wanted the heart to talk about the budget here -- especially because he was always talking to our group -- and if we could listen directly to the budget assessments, we would have listened to them, but in other places, we would have listened to them, but in other ways, we'd already been a little odd to the fact that the polymics could be mentioned here in a certain language of politics.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0039par0131	Did you have a hard time, teacher?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0040par0132	Don't answer that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0041par0133	So far, everyone has listened, please, without interrupting every orator who's ever taken the stand.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0042par0134	Second: Treasury and Finance Minister is a Minister of the government of the Republic of Turkey. Of course, it is the President's right to make criticisms of his public affairs, not just the People's Republicans, but the statement of the son-in-law of the People's People's People's People's People's People's Party (HDP) was not appropriate. I'd like to say that we object to that, and we'd like to hope that this will be considered primarily by Mr. President President.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0041par0136	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0043par0137	Don't you mind so much corruption, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0044par0138	The President-General is sitting there, don't talk!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0041par0139	Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0045par0140	Mr. President has made a very important emphasis on the will of the House. We certainly agree with his theoretical words about the will of the House. Here, I think, all political parties have a common opinion on the importance of the will of the House, but during budget talks, I have my lead soldiers, I don't need to come to the TBMM. We find the assessment very odd. The MPs here are elected by the nation, and are not lead soldiers of the President, but companions of the road. I'm sure Mr. President can come to the budget, come to the opening on October 1st, but Mr. President can always come because of the intensity of his schedule, he can't come to the debate. Here, the Vice Presidents and Friends of the Precious Group perform their duties. In fact, we've never seen the friends here as the general president's soldiers, we've seen them as the representatives of the nation, we've looked at them in that frame, and we can't think of any other way to look at them.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0046par0142	He thinks it's his party!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0045par0143	Another issue is whether the president should be in the budget. In Article 62, the budget can be offered by the Vice President or a appointed minister. We've made that change as a partner, and I'd like to bring that to your attention. Mr. President-General told us to vote for the poor poor when we lay our heads on the pillow at night. Just so you know, the AK PARTY Group, but not just the AK PARTY Group, but all the MPs here...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0047par0146	Let's finish, please, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0048par0147	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0045par0148	...even though their political position differs, in the end, when they continue these negotiations, not only do they put their heads on the pillow at night, but when they work here during the day, they act thinking about each and every member of this country, they vote in that frame, they decide. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, I'd like to report two things: the issue of the president's neutrality has been discussed a lot. He stated that the members of the Constitutional Court were appointed by the President, Mr. President-General. Members of the same Constitutional Court, appointed by Mr. President, have made a different decision on the declaration of academics. We must never forget that the identity of the people assigned to the Supreme Courts is in accordance with that acquish and that those people have an autonomous will. Finally, I'm going to say this Trump and the letter issue: The honour of Turkey is to return that letter to Trump. It's to be returned from a distance of 1 meter to his face, Mr. President. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0049par0154	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0050par0156	Sir, I'm paying my respects. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, Mr. President has spoken of a change in regime. Mr. Speaker says he criticised Mr. President in the budget. Before the regime changed, the Finance Minister was present in each budget, where the prime minister and ministers of this republic would be present in this empty area. They were people elected by the will of the nation and represented the nation, and as a result of this regime change, they were here today not to represent the Minister of Finance, not to represent the nation, unfortunately, but to inform the Parliament of the state. What would Mr. President be critical of if he didn't criticize it? Today you are either the President of the EC PARTY or the President of the Republic of Turkey. If you are the head of the EC PARTY, take the head of the EC PARTY, make him president; if you are the president, then, at the head of the presidential office, act as the neutral president of the nation. Mr. President wasn't going to say that, but what was he going to say? In the EC PARTY, the President of the Republican People's Party, if you bring in your son-in-law from 82 million in the Republic of Turkey, when there are a lot of people who sincerely want to be useful to the state and the nation that this country raises, to be educated, to be useful to the state and to the nation, and if you put him in charge of finances, then the President of the Republican People's Party will say it, and it is a criticism, and it is a criticism, and it is right. No one can deny that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0051par0162	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0050par0163	Besides, you're the one who said that my son-in-law and his son-in-law met in America about the president of the United States, the co-chair of the Middle East Project that you loved so much. Didn't you say that on the air? Can't something you say happen when the President says it and the President of the Republican People's Party tells it? My fellow lawmakers, we watched Mr. General President speak for about 80 minutes; he spoke of unemployment, he spoke of poverty, he spoke of suicides, he spoke of pain, he spoke of factories that were harvested in the name of nationalism in Turkey. You're not offended by any of them, and you're only offended by criticism of the President? (HIP rows) The poor man of this land did not hurt you, nor hurt you, nor hurt you for corruption, nor hurt you for nationalization, but hurt you by a criticism of the President? If that's the case, we'll continue to be on the side of the nation, you stay on the side of the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0051par0170	Dear MPs, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker is İstanbul MP Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you all. I wish the 2020 budget was a blessing, and I want to thank all the friends who have worked so hard. The budget is really important, in every way. There was the Old Law 1050 that defined the budget as poetry, a law that authorises expenditures and expenditures and authorises the collection of revenues. In fact, it's an old, Ottoman expression, a law that demonstrates the virtue of the state's devair and its establishment's fieft and the embassies and the practice of its practices. He used to say, "I've never forgotten." Then Law 1050 changed, and the Law on Financial Management and Control came. Indeed, it is, and the budget allows the administration to spend, and the administration does, according to this mandate, spend, because driving means spending, and there is no spending without managing. Now, there's been an app that's been going on for about forty-fifty years, and it's been overfunded for staff spending. So there's been this practice for forty-fifty years, it's just overpaid for staff expenses, staff costs, and this extra spending is demanded by the Parliament as a grant to complete with the final account law. Mr. Kilicdaroglu has just quoted the Court's statement, which is that it is the House of Appreciation on completion funds. He talked about a $63 billion amount of spending, as if an unexplored money had been spent or spent in the wrong places, and a money had been spent under a mandate that hadn't been given. It's not like that. The money spent on the staff is an app that's been going on for forty-fifty years.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0053par0178	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0179	That's right, yes, it's an application that's been going on for forty-fifty years, and because of the expense of personnel, that overpaid grant is also taken under the strict account law, and the legal process, the legislature process, is completed. That's the whole point. So we need to clarify. Now, of course, there has come to be a very serious issue here about the President's powers, and a statement has just been made, especially when the President is on leave, or when he goes abroad in any way, that he should be the one who will be appointed to be acting as chairman of the House. There's a very serious logical error here. You know, we always say that the legislature must be separate from the executives; the Speaker of Parliament is the head of the law, the head of the President's administration. So you can't give the presidency power of attorneyship to anyone, so it'll be a mix-up. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I'd like to say that I'm genuinely surprised that such a simple logic error has been made. Just a moment ago, actually, Mr. Naci told me, but I want to stress that it's easy to send that letter to Trump, through the embassy channel or in some other way. The main thing is to put it in front of him, to look him in the face, to look him in the eye, and show him that you don't accept him. That's what our President did.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0054par0183	Any witnesses, any witnesses?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0055par0184	Guys, please...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0185	Now, look, again, there's been talk of the stock market. What I understand is that Mr. Kilicdaroglu has some information about the stock exchange, so again, based on his own statement: you have information, documents, which say that there are some transactions being made over the President's attorneys and that there are transactions being made here. And Mr. Kilicdaroglu, did you file a complaint with the attorney general's office of the Republic? I'm curious. So if there is such a thing, if you've learned that someone committed a crime, if you've learned that someone acted against the law, what do you do? Of course you will, you will, and I won't say anything to him, but you will, as the most basic civic duty, file a criminal complaint against the Republic's attorney. This is the most basic civic duty, but as far as I can tell, there's no such application. What is this?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0056par0186	His file at the Izmir Public Prosecutor's Office.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0187	Dear friends, not like this. If you actually have information, documents -- you may have complaints -- you may have something -- you may take the state's attorney's office -- which they don't have protection from, and they don't have a shield, the lawyers there, the people mentioned -- but we understand that Mr. Kilicdaroglu didn't do this civic duty, he neglected. This is a great flaw, and our wish is that he completes it and fulfills it as soon as possible. That's right, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, where he's really going, there's no life and property security in Turkey. He said it here today, and he said it when he went abroad, and he says it all the time, but the nice thing is, no one does. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Why? Last year, 45 million people arrived in Turkey, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. If there is no safety of lives or property or even the slightest hesitation about it, 45 million tourists will not come to Turkey. Tens of thousands of people buy houses from Turkey, abroad, all over the world. And 511,000 people came to Turkey last year to buy health care; America, Germany, Britain, France, countries in the region, all of them. I'm sorry, no one's listening to you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I'm glad he won't listen. Look, I won't go into too much detail. A do-it-all is a model of financing. Again, it is raced within the rules of competition, and it is tendered to him, and it is that simple, and all of this is subject to the Court's review. Look, not just from a legal point of view, you know, the Law 6085 was changed in 2010, and we passed amazing powers to the Court there, and many other institutions outside the Court's scope were taken under the supervision of the Court. You remember, before that date, for example, the CITs were not subject to the Court's supervision. Maybe a lot of people don't know that. The Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board was incumbent on the Prime Minister's office, audited by their auditors. In the same way, the administrative establishments of municipalities were not subject to the Court's supervision. There are others, and all of them, with the Law number 6085, in 2010, by the AK PARTY, the entire Assembly supported, but as a result, the AK PARTY Group is responsible for running the Assembly, so the group that has the most support is responsible. Thus, Law 6085 was introduced in 2010, and the Court's control was opened to all institutions. That goes for the do-and-do model, too. The Court has gone through all these files. There are some criticisms he's found, but they've shared it with the public, not with the main criticism. You've already brought this up in previous parliamentary hearings. I'm not going to go into a lot of detail here, but I'm just going to say that, until September 8, 1999, people could retire without looking for the age limit. Until when? Until September 8, 1999. At this time, Law 4447 came out, and even though they filled the number of bonus days, the situation was that they could not retire until a certain age. When did that law come out? The late Mr. Bulent Ecevit period. Who made this law, who made it? Mr. Kilicdaroğlu, you have statements as well, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, when you were head of the USSR.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0057par0192	It's not true, you're giving false information! Tell me about the ABO in 2008!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0193	Yeah, yeah. Look, the drafting of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0057par0194	Tell me about ABO, the 2008 ABO!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0195	It was passed on September 8, 1999.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0058par0196	Friends, there was no such procedure as your honor. Where did this come from?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0197	Mr. Kilicdaroglu has an explanation again, much more than that; I'm not going into them. On September 8, 1999, the law came out, but on him... when a law is being drafted, who prepares it? Mr. Kilicdaroglu just told me that the relevant bureaucrats will prepare it. What bureaucrats? The SEC General Directorate prepared this law and this law months and years ago. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Oh, let me tell you, was it wrong? No, it wasn't wrong, it was right, it was the right law; I have no objection to that, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0059par0201	Retired, retired.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0202	What's wrong is that the law you're making is now you're hitting the ground and you're trying to make sense out of it...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0060par0203	The president was retired then; he didn't, he didn't!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0061par0204	Mr. President wasn't on duty then!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0052par0205	...you're abusing people's feelings; that's what's wrong, our objection to him.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0061par0207	He wasn't on duty, you're wrong!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0062par0208	Retired, retired, then. Speak on purpose!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0063par0209	Friends, everyone listened respectfully to the speaker on the stand. What the hell is going on?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0061par0210	You always give false information!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0064par0211	Mr. President, we listened to their preacher.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0212	I don't insult anyone, I don't insult anyone, so I'm just conveying my thoughts, my beliefs.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0066par0213	But he was retired!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0067par0214	Mr. Canikli, retired, retired!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0215	Of course you will accept it, and you will not accept it; it is yours to do. Dear friends, the Tank Palette Factory is dedicated to the production of our tanks, our ALTAY tanks -- look, I'm stressing -- to the production of individual ALTAY tanks, that's all, nothing else. I mean, there's no real estate or anything. I know the number, I know the price, I know the number, but I can't explain it here, I know the number.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0068par0218	Why don't you explain, why? Explain.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0219	It's military information, so I won't explain it. I also know the price that should be paid by the hour if the factory is being used, and it's way above the world's standards.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0069par0221	Say it, say it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0222	There's no such thing as a commoner, and there's definitely no such thing as a means to an end. It provides money for the production of the company and the ALTAY tank, nothing else. We need the ALTAY tank, we need the ALTAY tank. We've been needing it for a while. Why? Because the tanks we bought from the Germans, or the ones we bought from other countries, although they didn't give it to us in the last operation, and they don't sell it anymore. You can't use the old ones there, you can't use them in operations. They're trying to block them, and so are others. So there is no wrong situation here. Finally, I want to come to the Man's Island case. Why did you lose the court, Mr. Kilicdaroglu? You lost it for this...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0070par0224	The Supreme Court broke it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0225	I'll explain, and you know it. You said: "There is a transfer of money out of the country." The system or your accusation is based on money transfer abroad. But it turns out that there was no money transfer abroad, that these SWIFTs were domestic movements, is that correct, Mr. Kilicdaroglu?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0070par0227	No.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0071par0228	No, no. Court dismissed it, court dismissed it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0229	I know you know the file, you know it better than I do, you know it better than I do.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0071par0230	No, tell me the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0072par0231	Did the money go to Bank of New York?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0232	Don't, don't, you have to tell the truth about everything here.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0072par0233	Did the money go to Bony?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0234	Actually, those weren't on my schedule.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0072par0235	Master, you don't know, you don't know. Has the money gone to Bank of New York?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0236	Actually, there's one thing I'm going to say at the end, and I'd like to take it from the top, about Kanal Istanbul. Since it's connected to him, it's the throats. You know, the current status of the throats has been registered with the Treaty of the Montrö Straits of 1936. According to this agreement, Turkey is free to intervene in commercial ships that will cross its throats. There's no interference, look, no interference with commercial ships, and he can't charge any fee. This is the Treaty of the Montrö Straits in 1936. At that time, a total of 12 to 13,000 ships were passing yearly, over 50,000 today. 13,000 tankers pass through the Bosphorus of Istanbul. This 13,000 tankers carry explosives, flammable, troubled, bomb-like products that can be used or bomb-made, 13,000. Remember, in recent years, there have been accidents and explosions that have really scared Istanbul, even in some places that have caused the windows of buildings to be broken, and in those accidents, oil burned for days in the Bosphorus of Istanbul, off the coast of Istanbul. There are countless specimens, and I'm not going to go into detail. Istanbul is in grave danger. Each ship -- this tanker -- has a bomb on it, it has a chemical on it, it's got nuclear on it, we don't even have to get a pilot, because that's the deal, it's an international deal, and now there's no way to sustain it, guys. Istanbul is under threat, Istanbul. Istanbul is really on edge every day, whether it will be today or not. Those who know it know it, they follow it, and our hearts are in our mouths. Now, what are we trying to do? We need to get Istanbul out of this danger. The Montrö Bosphorus Convention doesn't apply when Canal İstanbul and Canal Istanbul are built, so we'll charge ships to cross it, yes, that's right, we'll get paid. And now we can close the throats for security, but it's not realistic, all countries stand up because 50,000 ships pass by, without an alternative proposal, without offering an alternative model. What's the alternative? Canal İstanbul, yes, Canal Istanbul will be built. Now, some countries are disturbed, especially Greek Cypriot ships with many ships, many Greek-band ships, yes, many, many, exactly. Last time I looked at traffic, I looked at the numbers, and most of it's made up of these flagships, my friends. They're uncomfortable because they're currently under no control, without any limitation, without paying a fee.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0073par0239	Those with boats are uncomfortable too!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0240	Danger is the danger of Istanbul. The danger is Turkey's danger. Now, they're uncomfortable, they're screaming everywhere, maybe you're following them. It's normal to yell because they didn't pay before, and now they're going to pay $6 billion in total, $6 billion. We understand their cries, we understand their opposition, but why do some friends oppose him, dear friends, why? What's happening to them? Look, I'll tell you this: if there's a debate, a do-and-do model that's going to build this place, because there are claims that are going to do this -- there's a number of concessions around the canal that are going to win some concessions, get some rights there, get the people's property, and get the people's property, and make an unfair profit, it can be done by the state. Look, I'm just saying, there's no need to do this, it can be financed by the government after it's found. Well, there's no such danger, but it's just to create perception. But it could easily be done by the government to take this gun away from them, and there would be no problem, and the ships passing by would crack up to Turkey. Because it is our kingdom, and the straits are ours, and we face so many threats, but we get no wages.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0074par0242	We're taking it. There's a document.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0243	So what needs to be done here is definitely to support this project. I will not, sir, I will not allow it. Such threatening explanations, such as these, have no validity; this project will be carried out by the will of God and will continue to serve the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, governments implement their policies, their goals through budgets because every year, about 30 percent of the national income is collected and distributed through budgets. Thus, governments make their policies, social policies, economic policies realised and implemented through the budget. What's the main goal in economics? The primary goal is to increase prosperity, increase the production of goods and services, and to distribute these goods and services more fairly; this is the main goal in the economy. So everything can be talked about in detail, it can be, but it's what needs to be investigated, what needs to be studied, what needs to be analyzed. The EC PARTY is our 18th budget so far. What happened in the last 17 budgets? Where are you on approaching these goals? How long have these goals been achieved, and how long have they not been reached? They need to be evaluated, analyzed. I mean, really, was Turkey able to achieve its prosperity level in that sense, in that sense, the goal expected from governments? What are the elements of prosperity? The elements of prosperity are the house we live in, the car we drive, what we eat, what we drink, what we walk, whatever, that's all of it. Isn't that right? These are the elements of prosperity. So what we're saying is that in the last 17 years, real income has literally increased by three times, so from $236 billion to $789 billion --net, undisputed -- the multinational income per person is over $10,000, but people can't make it very concrete, they can't visualize it. What does that mean? Okay, it's up, it's up, but what does it mean? These critiques are coming, they're right, they're right. For him, what we have to do is put it in the flesh, embody it. So, what are the elements of prosperity? The elements of prosperity are the elements I just counted. One of the most important elements of prosperity is to own a dwelling. The Turkish people also love the dwelling, and even the place in the world slogans it as faith in the afterlife. So from a housing point of view, over 10 million homes have been produced and sold in 17 years, so in 17 years 10 million families have acquired housing in Turkey; concrete, clear. Look around you, talk, you'll see everyone; 10 million dwellings in 17 years. What does that mean? In this sense, the welfare of people -- the most important, most obvious, dominant element of prosperity -- is to have a home -- has been built to increase the prosperity of 10 million families. Second: the car, the automobile, and the light commercial vehicle, are used as automobiles. In 17 years, our people, our citizens, bought 11 million 800,000 vehicles, increased their well-being. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So let's move on to the elements of prosperity, look, we need to make it concrete. An important part of the dwellings are the standard housing that people in the middle and lower income group can buy. The luxury housing rate is 7 to 8 per cent, and all others are owned by citizens in the middle and lower income group. Now, look, smart devices, the computer, the tablet, the cell phone, that's what our people like. In 17 years, 197 million smart devices were sold, people bought it, used it, bought it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0075par0254	They're giving it away for free.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0256	So it's an element of prosperity, yes, that's one of the key indicators of prosperity, especially with developing technology. I don't know, can you imagine, in 17 years, 197 million meats wrapped in bone, bought, bought, bought, bought, acquired, and used them. 103 million white objects consumed by our people, 103 million. So if you try to count it like this, you probably won't be able to count it in a month, so our citizen took 103 million white items and used them. It's all there, I won't go into detail.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0076par0258	26 million performances!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0259	Consider what we eat: The amount of red meat consumed per person in 17 years increased from 8 kilos to 12 kilos. Yeah, I mean, no, it's about welfare, right? We talk about it all the time. The consumption of red meat per person has increased from 8 kilos to 12 kilos. In the same way, white meat consumption has increased from 20 pounds to 60 pounds. So that's what prosperity is: what we wear, what we sit, what we use, what we take.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0077par0260	You've eaten!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0261	All other products, I've only given you two examples. So in olives, olives, milk, tea -- I mean, in all of them, as a very serious consumption -- from chocolate to ice cream, the same way, electricity, natural gas, fuel, shoes, all the clothing items have actually increased per capitaly. Let's look at the services. So one of the two key elements of prosperity is health care, one is education. If not, one of the key factors that completes prosperity is health care. The quality of health care, whether it is taken or not, or the quality of education is also a key factor that determines the level of prosperity. Look, the number of patients in the clinic has increased from 209 million to 800 million per year. 800 million patients are currently being taken care of in Turkey, 800 million; they come from 209 million. And the number of surgeries went from 3 million to 15 million. Now, maybe some of them will say, "Ya, you've made people sick." I know.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0078par0263	You've made them sick.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0264	No, it's not like that. Everyone knows Mr. Kilicdaroglu knows very well that in previous times -- in the 1990s, anyway -- if it was urgent, the patient would be given a day after six months for the day of surgery, and if it wasn't urgent, the patient would be dead in less than six months. We've been through this, open up the newspapers that day; I'm not imagining, look, the newspapers of that day are full of such dramatic events. So people couldn't reach it. The doctor said that six months later, you would have to operate immediately. A system like this is now truly one of the world's finest health systems. We don't just say it, the whole world says it, dear friends, the whole world says it. And let me tell you something about this: In the 1990s, health care was given in a closed space of five and a half million square metres, and many of these buildings were troubled. Now, 25 and a half million square feet, five-star hotel standards are trying to provide this service in closed areas, that's why I'm saying. We're not the only ones saying it, the whole world is saying it. How does he say it? Friends, there are 546000 foreign nationals who came to Turkey last year to buy health care, 546 thousand, and it's growing geometrically. There are people from all over, Eastern Europe, our region, the Middle East, Iran, Iraq and America, England, France...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0078par0266	They're getting a hair transplant.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0267	No, I'll get to that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0079par0268	There are foreigners, there are no Turks.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0269	This may sound strange, but you know what most of it is? They're coming in for sophisticated operations, including open-heart surgery. So obviously, when I'm doing this research, what I've got is, usually, you know, I've got hair plugs, women to get pretty, not like that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0080par0270	How many people have gone to America? I'll tell you in a moment. How many have gone from here to America?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0271	So just because it's cheap, no one goes to a country to get health care, so they don't trust their lives, they don't have open-heart surgery. We provide one of the world's finest health services and at a competitive price. Here's what happens next because of this transformation... and I'll tell you this: when the normal tourist comes to Turkey, he leaves about $700,750, which is an average of 3,000-3. He's leaving $500. That's why we've already started -- this area with very special incentives -- it's already happening spontaneously, so we're not doing anything. It's not directly related to him, but in the same way, film export; yes, we expect $500 million in 2019, dear friends, $500 million. This doesn't happen where you sit. So in previous times, these numbers are zero. People from all over the world are coming to get health care, and they're going to keep coming. Education is one of the key elements of prosperity that is crucial to our children's quality education. Let me give you the most vital number: The number of students per class has fallen from 36.1 to 23.4 today, do we need to explain in other words, friends? (EA/DG) Look, the number of lecturers has increased from 611,000 to 1 million 104, 109.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0081par0273	You made two-year-olds professors.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0274	Yeah, that's it, that's the number, the official figures of the state. So I'm guessing you're having a hard time accepting it, but that's one of the things that determines the level of well-being in college, the level of people going to college is up from $2 million to $7 million. Everyone goes to college if they want to. Once upon a time, when this was said, some politicians were accused of imagination in the past. Let's look at some fun, some other stuff. Of course, the elements of prosperity are not just home, wear, and drink.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0082par0276	These people are killing themselves with wealth!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0277	Look, the total number of movie audiences has risen from 23.5 million to 70 million in 2018.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0083par0278	Bravo.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0280	Yeah, yeah. The number of theatre audiences has risen from 1 million to 1,800,000. 8.7 million people are airing inland -- 8.7 million -- today 113 million people use airways a year, that's prosperity. And he's driving 11 million 800,000 cars on very comfortable roads, on great highways, with truly spectacular landscapes, and that's prosperity. It's the prosperity of his cinema, his health, his food, his drink, his clothes, whatever you say.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0084par0281	Come to the gym, Mr. President, to the gym.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0282	Yes, so Turkey has actually experienced this transformation. Now, let me tell you something some people might not like: international humanitarian aid. That's one of the key elements of prosperity, at least that's what I think. With $8.07 billion in foreign aid, Turkey is the highest foreign aider in the world -- no digital comparison of national revenues -- in 2017 and 2018. What does that have to do with welfare? Here's the thing about prosperity: Once upon a time, the Prime Minister of this country did not get credit for 1 tanker oil. Look, one tanker couldn't get oil on credit, or from a period of 200-300 million dollars -- now that it's hit the wall -- from a time when all the principles he's been defending so far have been taken to the ground -- to get a loan from the IMF -- to help nations, communities, countries, countries, every year, Turkey is number one in the world. (EC PARTY) This is not just the government's help, it's all NGOs, the Redbear, the Diet, and the help that people have done, as a nation, as a nation. Oh, I'll tell you, it's not much government help. What's really involved here is the help that the nation itself has done; the money that it's donating, the money that it's sending, the money that it's making up, and the money that it's sending through NGOs. So, sir, you're not looking at the hungry people in Turkey, you're sending them. I'm telling you in this sense, this nation is sending most of them, the Turkish nation; this is one of the most important features of the Turkish nation, yes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0085par0285	Where are the martyrs', the martyrs'?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0286	The money for the martyrs, that reminds me, thank you. What did you say before you ate the money of the martyrs? You said that, didn't you, you said that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0085par0287	I said, "Where is he?" I said, "Where is he?"
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0288	What's the matter now? The money's still there, the money's in the account, it's in the account, it's in the government records; what happened?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0086par0290	You've eaten, you've eaten, you've eaten.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0291	I mean, really, like this...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0087par0292	Where is it?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0086par0293	You ate it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0294	One of the elements of prosperity -- almost forgot -- is security; isn't it, security -- the most basic duty of the state is to ensure the safety of citizens' lives and property? We don't agree with Mr. Kilicdaroglu. But there are also some really important, amazing developments at the security point. What is this? Today, every citizen of the Republic of Turkey can easily visit 780,000 square kilometers.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0087par0295	Why can't the President just leave? Why can't the President go peacefully, with 3,000 guards? He's coming to the House with a thousand guards.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0088par0296	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0297	So today there are festivities in the mountains of Tunceli, and there are festivities in the plateaus of Hakkari, and the festivals of kites are being held, and anyone can go and see. Not only there, but the entire 780,000 square kilometers are safe, every citizen of the Republic of Turkey is able to travel on this land as he pleases, to survive as he pleases. Now, Mr. Lütfi will explain the distribution of income, but I'd like to make a brief statement about poverty. Sure, there's a lot of talk about poverty. I mean, what's the trend, where did we come from, where are we going? When an analysis is being done, there's got to be a comparison between a place and a period, and there's not much point in taking a number and saying it. Internationally used numbers are dollar-based consumption figures; there's a dollar, there's $2.15, and there's $4.3. Let alone 1 and 2 priests, where Turkey has passed that stage. The definition of poverty in the form of spending under $4.3 is defined in this way, if you want to categorize it internationally. So that's not a number that we set, that's $4.3 a day. In this regard, 19 million,500,000 people who have spent under $4.3 a day in 17 years have dropped to 1,100,000 today, not today, or rather the latest numbers of 2015. After that, TİK has already stopped watching this series. Why did he quit? Because Turkey is out of the way now.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0089par0300	It's reset.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0301	Yeah, that's right, because it resets.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0090par0303	There are more photos, Mr. President. There are photos, you haven't shown them.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0091par0304	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, please, don't interrupt the witness.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0305	It's connected to this, and it was published today, on all these conversations. The Human Development Report was published today by the United Nations Development Programme, including 2018. There's corruption, all of it, a very complete report based on all the criteria, such a system. You know what he says? Turkey rises to the 59th ranking between 189 countries. For the first time, Turkey has entered the category of very high human development, for the first time.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0092par0306	It's his first time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0307	Look, we didn't publish this report, so if we did something, you'd say a lot of things. It's being published by the United Nations, nothing to do with us, nothing to do with us.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0093par0308	Yeah, it's not the third, it's the 59th.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0309	For the first time, Turkey has reached a major league in this category, including poverty and poverty. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Guys, we all went out together, we all went out together.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0093par0312	Mr. Nurettin, 59; not 3.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0313	I mean, you can be happy, it's not just me, it's not her, it's all our friends, it's all our friends. Now, dear friends, there's also this interest issue, and I need to get in. If I remember correctly, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said that Faize is paid $596 per second. Let's assume it's true.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0094par0315	Mr. President, the citizen texted me that we can't find a gram of meat. What kind of work is this?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0316	Today, if the level of interest reached 17 years ago, its share of the budget had been preserved exactly the same way, if it had been preserved, friends, look...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0094par0317	He texted me, saying we can't find a gram of meat.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0095par0318	Looks like you're the only one!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0319	In the 1990s, about 40 per cent of budget spending had been paid for interest, and in the 1990s, when we took over, that's about 42 per cent; that's what it reached in the 1990s. In the 2019 budget, what's the rate? 10%, 10%. This means that if there had been no improvements and worsenings in this area in 17 years, 42 percent of the 2019 budget would have been transferred to interest costs, and it would have been transferred to interest. Who's getting interest revenue? Money fathers, rich men, Aghas.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0096par0320	At that time, they were raising it to 2,500 per second.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0321	403 billion dollars would be transferred, dear friends, if the same rate, as I said, no improvement, no worsening...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0097par0322	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0065par0323	Now, here's the graph, and since we've done that...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0098par0324	You said 10 percent is unrealistic, 17%.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0099par0325	By God, you're going to say that you're the one who's in power in 1999, so what can I say?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0100par0326	Friends, but everyone listened to all the oratories.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0101par0327	Friends, look, it shows its share of interest in the budget; its highest date is the end of the 1990s, the beginning of the 2000s, those years. When you look at it, it's over 40 percent in the 1990s, and it's up to 42 percent. And then there's the 17-year term. (AK PARTY) Look, regularly, steadyly, not a year, not two years, not three years, but 17 years of non-interruption interest is falling in the budget, and it's down to 10/19 in the budget, and it's down to 10/10.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0102par0328	They were trying to fix it with the travel stuff!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0101par0329	If that rate had stayed the way we did, it would have been paid 403 billion dollars from the 2019 budget today. How much is it paid now? From the 2019 budget to the interest of 103 billion. The difference is 300 billion, and it saves 300 billion in interest in a year, dear friends. This is the greatest social policy in history, yes, exactly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, where do we use these -- this is the 300 billion dollars we save in a year? Here, we transfer it to personnel, we transfer it to education, we stream it to health, the road, the bridge... here, this is where it's done, this is where it's done. Look, so far, we've spent 1 trillion 128 billion on education in 17 years. Where did the money go? We spent 6 trillion 750 billion on the budget; it's all there. 1 trillion 128 billion to education, 1 trillion to health, 183 billion to agriculture, 740 billion to investment, 375 billion to social spending...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0103par0332	Farmer's dead, education's over, health's down...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0101par0333	In the 1990s, social spending is only 1 per cent of the budget; social spending is being transferred to $1.3 billion. What's the money in the 2019 budget for this job? So, from our disabled citizens, most of them are 62 billion in cash monthly payments to homes; 1 billion, 62 billion in 17 years, my friends. 375 billion in social spending... these poor people. Again, in the 1990s, 1 million households were given this aid, while 3.5 million households were made today; 3.5 million households. That's why it's getting less poor.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0104par0336	You've put people out of work, you've left them poor.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0105par0337	Mr. Canicli, I'll add one minute to your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0339	Social security expenses-- look, we're talking. This year, in the 2019 budget, the social security system's revenues are not enough to cover their expenses, so we transfer money from the budget every year. How much this year? 192 billion liras, my dear friends, 192 billion liras. In 17 years, we've transferred 1 trillion 182 billion. Now, if our citizens are expected to... they may be right in their own way, I'm not saying anything about their demands, they'll bring up their demands -- I'm saying it for the citizens. It's not that, it's just that it's a matter of being evaluated on a rational basis and deciding whether or not it's going to be a real serious statesman move, and he thinks that we need to tell those people something. Now, we need to solve their problems, solve their problems, and if you tell them to give pensions to those who have filled their bonuses without waiting for age... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have another minute?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0107par0343	Mr. Canikli, please, I added.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0344	...Technical arrangements, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, which you made on September 8, 1999, the arrangement that the late Bkent Ecevit put into effect would be eliminated, and we'd be back in the early retirement system, and that would cost 26 billion years, and then 100 billion after that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0108par0345	How many are there, how many are there?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0346	Yes, 100 billion, it is. There are 6 million people.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0108par0347	Not 6 million, wrong information, 1 million people will retire.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0348	There are 1.5 million people who will retire immediately. Those who will retire immediately -- when the law comes out today -- cost the budget a year, 25 to 26 billion. Yes, it is, and I've worked every single penny of it, I know. After a while, it goes up to 100 billion, and we go back to the early retirement system, which is 100 billion years old and 40. I'll figure it out to those people before I put this money out. It's not gonna happen, it's not gonna happen. You give those people false hope.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0109par0349	Cut back on the cost of the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0110par0350	Yeah, and you said no holiday bonuses, so you did.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0351	Look, there are friends at the Republican People's Party and the entire Assembly who know how to do this, please, let them talk, so they can share. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just trying to get the political support of those citizens...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0111par0354	Mr. Canikli, let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0112par0355	Mr. Nurettin, you said no holiday bonuses, didn't you? The holiday bonuses...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0356	It cost 10 billion, we found it, we found it. Look, what I'm saying is, let's find the source and get it done. We found 10 billion, the source of 100 billion...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0113par0358	Leave it, we'll find it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0359	Without revealing the source...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0114par0360	In the palace, in the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0361	But it's not like this: Mr. Kilicdaroglu had already said: my name is Kemal, and I will find it. It's not like that, it's not like that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Exactly, your own testimony, and I'm sorry about that, so I have no other purpose, because it's your own testimony. I mean, the Nobel Prize winners have been working so hard to solve this resource problem for centuries, they haven't found it, but Mr. Kilicdaroglu, I found it. If he says it, it's a very valuable event, really. (EC PARTY AND CHP APPLAUSE) We'll back you up, either way, so there's no problem in that sense.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0115par0364	Bravo!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0365	But there's nothing there, nothing there.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0115par0366	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0106par0367	I mean, with an empty family insurance policy, I'll take care of it. It's not what I'm saying. Mr. President, thank you. My respects, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0116par0371	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0372	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0116par0373	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0376	Sir, thank you. First of all, Mr. Canikli, of course as an MP, has the right to criticize a speech made at the General Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, but no bureaucrat has the right to criticize the talks held here, only to give information. I've listened very carefully to Mr. Canikli's speech, and I thank him, Mr. Canikli, but I don't know what part of the conversation you're making is right, I don't know.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0118par0379	He talked to numbers, numbers.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0380	Now, for Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- referring to the period when Mr. Bulent Ecevit and Mr. National Movement Party formed in 1999 -- you wrote these tax laws at that time in Social Insurance.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0119par0382	He's right, stand by your arrangement.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0120par0383	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0384	Now, Mr. Canikli, at that time Mr. Kilicdaroglu retired, never worked. (CHP clapping in rows) I mean, does a person multiply reality and multiply it that much? Is that how much a person frames someone? Is it true that a man's face doesn't blush, but he tells such lies with such rashness? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, about the hospitals. You said: "They come from England, from America." Did you go to the United States about health a year and a half ago? Did you see any treatment there?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0121par0387	I didn't go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0388	You saw it, you saw it, you saw it. We will bring you their proofs. So you're going to have to tell the truth here a little bit. Now, I'm telling the truth one by one from here, not by twisting the facts.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0122par0391	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0392	Mr. Canikli says that the President of the United States, the President of the Republic of Turkey -- I can't even remember the name of the Republic of Turkey -- is using harsh statements -- you say, "First they say, "We threw it away, we put it here, we put it there. If you knew the state, you would have given it to the government's records. In the United States of America, I wonder how you're going to prove whether or not you gave Trump this letter.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0123par0393	He told me at the press conference.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0394	Because you never gave me that letter. You don't have the courage to give that letter, you don't have the heart. You left that letter in your pocket. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Prove to me that you're the former Secretary of State of the Tank Palet.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0124par0397	There's no answer in 64 for ten years...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0398	You gave him the letter? You'll put it in government records.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0125par0400	The whole world gave the press conference.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0126par0401	Mr. Ozkoch, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0402	You'll put it in government records. First, you will call the messenger. You will say, "Al, you will answer this letter." What is it, sir? He put it in his pocket. Look, he's still got it in his pocket. Look, he's still got that letter in his pocket. Now, look, Mr. Canikli talks about Tank Palette, and he says: "We did a very right thing, we assigned the ALTAY tank for twenty-five years. You didn't just do that because you gave out VAT exceptions, you brought in customs tax exemptions, you brought in VAT returns, you gave 100 percent off the corporate tax. You've given me ten years of insurance premiums and a share of employer's shares. You gave me a ten-year-old income tax block. You've given me $69 million worth of qualified personnel support. So our worker will work for BMC, we'll pay for it. You've sponsored interest and profit interest of 141 million liras. You've provided energy support for 50 per cent of 12 million liras of consumption.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0126par0405	Let's finish it, please. Mr. Ozkoch, let's finish.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0117par0407	Who did you give it to? You gave it to the Qatar army. We're not saying... I thought you were going to make a national tank. The Qatar army is the largest shareholder, you answer that. Why did you turn all this money to Qatar? Answer me this. Mr. President, my fellow MPs, say to Kilicdaroğlu: "No one believes you. We took Istanbul because they believed in Kılıçdaroğlu, so we took Ankara. We took Mersin for him. We did it with the National Alliance, with the support of the nation. No one believes you anymore. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0127par0411	You got it, but you're gonna put it back.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0128par0412	Give account of the mines in Africa. What about your mining companies in Africa?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0129par0413	Guys, please don't talk to each other. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0130par0415	Mr. President, he was taunting me with my name, Mr. President, and he used harsh expressions to say that he wouldn't blush.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0129par0416	Here you go. Let's not make a new tease.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0130par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. I have never been treated in America. I haven't been to any hospital, I haven't had any medical care.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0131par0423	I'll show you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0130par0424	Look, even this is one of the interesting examples of what kind of perception is actually being created. That's what I'm always saying, guys, take a good look at something.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0131par0425	I'll show you, I'll show you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0132par0426	Lies! Lies!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0131par0427	We'll show you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0133par0428	Friends, this is our friend speaking on the stand, please let him speak.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0134par0429	So the records are here, the Council's records are here, they're all here, you can look at them. I don't have a cure in the U.S., I've been treated in Turkey, Turkish doctors, and I've been treated in Istanbul.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0131par0431	I'll show you, the papers are here, the papers are here. Tell me about the president.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0135par0433	Apologize! Apologize!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0136par0434	Now, dear friends, it doesn't matter if they apologize or not. Dear friends, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is on duty on September 8th. I didn't say that. Look, look at the release date of the law - September 8, 1999. But a law, especially such a law, in the form of reform, a very important law begins to be prepared years ago. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu has a statement...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0137par0436	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0136par0437	Yes, it is, of course. Mr. Kilicdaroglu and his team have prepared as bureaucrats." I said, look, as a bureaucrat. So that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0137par0438	Shame on you! He's never been found. That's no way to lie!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0138par0439	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0139par0440	Guys, you want no one to interfere while you're talking, you don't let anyone else talk, please... No, wait. You want a word, I promise everyone. Please...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0137par0441	Tell them a little, tell them a little!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0140par0442	Friends, tank palette production has been encouraged to produce tanks. Those incentives are true, they're given, they're even given to produce chicks, they're even given to produce chicks in Turkey, open them up, look.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0137par0443	Sure!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0140par0444	Everyone knows that, concerned friends know that the value-tax exemptions are all given to those who produce chicks.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0141par0445	You gave it to the Qatars, Tank Paleti, you gave it to the Qatars.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0140par0446	Not that I despise the chick maker, but it's nothing new, nothing special. Look at all the incentives -- there are friends who are interested -- you'll see them all there. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0141par0449	Betrayal, betrayal!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0142par0450	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0143par0451	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0142par0452	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I have a say in the matter that my statements are false, that they're not true, and I'd like to answer to him.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0144par0453	What answer is that?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0143par0454	Your position?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0142par0455	My place.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0143par0456	Okay, well, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0142par0459	We don't say anything we can't prove. Speak in a manner that you can prove. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu was taken care of. He was retired at the time you called him, and he never worked on the law. You're still going out and saying that before you blush. I'm looking at your face. The support you gave the tank palette, the chick? You're giving the chick your support?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0145par0462	You equate the tank with the chick?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0142par0463	You're saying that you've done the National Defense Department with the production of chicks -- you've done the production of tanks and you've given the same incentives? All of them... you did the Ministry of National Defense, but unfortunately, you don't know that because you didn't do the Ministry of National Defense on behalf of the nation, because you did it on behalf of the United States.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0146par0465	For fuck's sake!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0147par0466	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0146par0467	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0148par0468	Wait a second.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0147par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0148par0470	Guys, I mean, we're not getting anywhere blaming each other like this. This is not in the way of the discussions we've had so far, please. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0149par0473	He hasn't asked for a word yet, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0148par0474	But what you're saying is...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0149par0475	Look, Mr. President, for the record,
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0148par0477	Wait a minute, wait a minute, no.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0150par0478	Sit down! Show some fucking respect!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0148par0479	I promised Mr. Canikli. I promised Mr. Canikli, then.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0151par0480	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0148par0481	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0152par0485	During the time of our National Defense Department, I visited a country as an invitation from the Department of Defense. It's a normal visit. I didn't ask for an appointment, the president of the country asked to meet me. So I was wondering, you know, I didn't ask for it. We had an hour and 15 minutes with the president of that country, and he spent 45 minutes asking me to sell armed drones to their country, 45 minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2018, the Pakistani Naval Command 4+1 was launched into an international tender for the construction of a warship, the key delivery contract. All countries, all major countries are entering. China finances it, China finances it, China pays for it. We, most of our friends, can't get it, we can't get it. We spent six months trying to get it, Turkey won. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A bid for a few billion dollars. The biggest export the Turkish defence industry has ever received is a key delivery. All command control systems, navigation systems, other than the propulsion system, we've got all of them to do with our local resources, key delivery.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0153par0490	Come to the tank palette.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0152par0491	We'll grow the engine in the 4th, and hopefully put the domestic engine in the 4th. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you another example of what it's like to be around people.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0153par0494	Did you or did you not give the Qatar army a tank palette?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0152par0495	Let our friends know what it's like to act in the name of the nation, to protect the interests of the nation, because they've lost their criteria.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0154par0496	This is the Ministry of National Defense, Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0152par0497	Now, in Operation Firat Shield, 70 of our tanks have been hit, unfortunately, with antitank missiles.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0155par0498	Tell me if you gave the Qatar army a tank palette or not!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0156par0499	Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0152par0500	Then we had talks with our friends, the defense companies, the engineers, all of them because we know about Operation Olive branch, the world doesn't know, but...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0156par0502	Mr. Canicli, we don't extend the deadline when spoken of because of bullying.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0157par0503	The former Deputy President of the Group knows all about it, but...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0158par0504	Mr. President, we couldn't hear it over the noise.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0156par0505	Okay, I'll give you one minute. Complete, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0159par0507	Thank you, Mr. President. What do we do? What do we do? Of course, everyone's first thought is, you know, there's this system in this country, and there's this system in this country. We can't buy them, they won't give them to us, it's too expensive. Eventually, we're going to place a radar system at six points of tanks, six radar bombs in their midpoints, six bombs, integrated each other, and when the antitank missile is launched, radar will detect it. Firing at 1,800 meters max, the time for that ammunition to reach the tank is 27 to 28 seconds. Radar will detect it, track it, calculate the possible approach to the tank, and at 11 meters to go, that bomb will detonate and destroy it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0160par0509	America will look after it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0159par0510	Everyone's looking, they're looking. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) And now this is being assembled, dear friends, to our tanks. There's no technology like this in any country in the world, there's no work, there's no work. We don't talk about it much, we don't talk about it, but since it's in the interest of the public...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0161par0512	They're uncomfortable with progress, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0162par0513	Who did you give the tank palette to?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0159par0514	...then how policies were created for the benefit of the nation, here are the concrete examples.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0162par0515	Did you or did you not give the Turkish Armed Forces to the Qatar armed forces? Answer the question.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0159par0516	- It's not gonna be, it's not gonna be, it's not gonna be, it's not gonna be, it's not gonna be, it's not gonna be,
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0163par0518	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0164par0520	Sir, I just, look, right now...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0163par0521	There's no teasing here, I listened.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0165par0522	Well, he's talking anyway.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0164par0523	You're doing the same thing right now. You listen to me, you ask me what I want to say, but you don't ask Mr. Canikli, you promise him right away.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0166par0524	But you picked on me.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0164par0525	Now, that's not being the neutral president of the House, let me put it this way.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0167par0526	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0168par0527	How? Wait a minute, I didn't quite catch that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0164par0528	You just promised Mr. Canikli what he wanted to say.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0167par0529	Loud and clear. We have a clear, clear situation.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0169par0530	You told me to look you in the face! We're just saying it to your face. You said it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0170par0531	We don't understand, so why don't you look at the transcripts?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0167par0532	Loud and clear. As a result, he wants a word.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0171par0533	Sir, Mr. Canikli, you just promised him what he wanted to say.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0172par0534	You didn't hear it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0173par0535	Okay, I could see why he wanted it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0171par0536	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0173par0537	Yeah, well, I'm asking you, 'cause I don't get it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0171par0538	Why don't you ask him?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0174par0539	Loud and clear.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0175par0540	Look at your face, I'm telling you. You said it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0176par0541	I figured out why he wanted it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0177par0542	Oh, you don't understand mine!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0176par0543	I don't understand yours. Because I listened to his speech.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0177par0544	You know why? Because with your heart, you are not the independent, neutral Speaker of Parliament, you are the Speaker of the AKP.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0178par0546	That's not true!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0179par0547	Not at all!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0180par0548	Get out of here! It's your job to stretch the Coven!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0181par0549	I refuse to do that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0550	You can refuse.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0181par0551	I see it as a very rude statement.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0552	Not at all, sir, I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0181par0553	No.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0554	I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0183par0555	You said, "Look at your face."
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0181par0556	Listen to what you're saying to the transcripts. You have accused Mr. Canikli of being the national defence minister of another country by mentioning his name in person. I don't need to ask him again. But I listened to him speak.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0557	You have to ask him what he wants to say, you have to ask him as Speaker.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0181par0558	No, I'm not. He says, "The President appreciates it." He says, "The President appreciates it."
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0184par0559	There's a challenge. He says, he sees teasing.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0560	First the president asks, then he appreciates, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0181par0561	It doesn't say that, let's read it together.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0562	Mr. President, can I have the word now? Mr. President, I'm waiting. Can I have your word?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0181par0564	No, I'm asking you what you want based on.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0565	Well, I'll give you his answer, sir, if you'll excuse me. Since I'm not Mr. Canikli... Sir, Mr. Canikli says these friends have lost their senses. He says it for me.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0185par0567	That's not what he said, that's what it means.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0568	And I'm saying...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0186par0569	In this speech?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0570	He's on this stand, he's talking about it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0186par0571	That's not what I've heard in this conversation.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0572	There is, sir, and it means that what we say in this conversation isn't true. That's why I'd like to speak according to 60, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0187par0573	Let's ask for the transcripts. Let's ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0186par0574	Mr. Ozkoc, in this speech, in his last speech, I have not heard any accusations against you, your person or your group.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0575	Sir, if you don't trust the congressman, of course the transcripts will be taken care of.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0186par0576	Sure, let's look at the report.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0182par0577	Of course you would, but if you're holding a moment of your promise to Mr. Canikli without even asking, explain it here.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0188par0578	He brought out a lot of lies, and you're not blushing.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0186par0579	You told Mr. Canikli he was the minister of another country. We all heard it here, I made him a promise. Let's take a look at the reports, if you have anything to say, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0189par0581	Let's look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0186par0582	I'll promise not to tease after I've looked at the reports according to 69.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0190par0583	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0191par0584	I'd like a word from my position based on the importance of the matter, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0192par0585	So there's no teasing.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0193par0586	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0194par0587	No, he's waiting for the report, waiting for him, of course he'll talk now.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0588	I know that makes you think a lot, but I'd appreciate it if you could promise.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0196par0589	Okay. Please, let's finish this at once.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0593	Thank you. I'll tell you a very emotional story like Mr. Canicli. I visited the Tank Palette Factory. He's been working at the Tank Palet Factory for years.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0197par0595	The one who doesn't...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0596	I've been in that factory for years with soldiers and army-integrated workers, engineers and officers who produced the first obuse cannon in Turkey and the world to hit its target. They all had tears in their eyes. The Qatar army and the BMC will never be able to produce their own weapon in Turkey, they actually have the capacity to produce tanks...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0198par0597	It's your own idea.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0598	...that they made the bus tank as an example in the world, that they did everything in the optics until they reached the F-16 window, that Ethem Sandzak.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0199par0600	Give him time, give him time, let him talk.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0200par0601	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0602	Mr. Group, I want what you're giving the Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0200par0603	You wanted to speak according to 60.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0604	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0200par0605	I'll give you one minute and one more minute.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0606	You've given four minutes to those who have asked for a place according to 60.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0200par0607	This is how we did it with the Deputy Directors of the Group, about the speeches, but I think you'll appreciate that we can't do this until the morning.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0609	I appreciate it, too, but I'll demand the four minutes you've given them.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0200par0610	You've already used it. I promised you, not them.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0611	I just started, sir. I just started.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0200par0612	I gave you my word, and I promised them mine.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0195par0613	They cried to me about why they could produce that obus tank and why it had never been associated with a gun like Ethem Sandzak in its entire life, and why the Qatar army was pursued, why the Turkish army was not trusted, why the Turkish engineer was not trusted. As your National Secretary of Defense, of course, your conscience may not be broken, I understand, but their conscience aches. They're capable of building the Altay tank, potential, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... they've served this army and the nation for years. Now, we're saying that you've taken those who built that tank and made a tail for the Qatar army. Why don't you make tanks? We don't call them tanks.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0200par0621	Dear MPs, the second speaker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group is Mr. Lütfü Elvan. Here you are, Mr. Elvan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 40 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0201par0625	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our citizens who are watching us on the screens. Before I begin my assessment of the budget, I'd like to express my opinion on some of the issues that have been brought up today. First, there was a criticism of our Vice President's representation of running the budget talks. The Vice President has been defined in the Constitution, and the President has been given power of attorney. Second, our Vice President is a member of the government. Third, he's under oath in the House. The fourth is in the Constitutional Court, under Article 106 of the Constitution. Fifth, there's immunity from law enforcement. The Vice President is not a civil servant. Our vice president is a member of the Constitutional government whose status is organised. It's very wrong to create a perception here, dear friends, as if a civil servant following the 657 Law had come to defend the budget. I'd like to express that in particular. With the new government system, in the constitutional amendment referendum, yes, the main opposition said no, we said yes. What did our people say? Our people said yes, and said that they were behind the Constitution. But from what I understand, the constitutional amendment is not fully understood. I'd like to express that in particular. Another issue, as far as I know, has been discussed, discussed, and changed in this Civil Code. Now, I'm reading to you the 62nd Article of the Civil Code: Dear friends: ▪ The Vice President or Minister of the Executive Office makes the presentation speech. In the name of executive hearings where budget and final law proposals are discussed, the vice presidents and ministers can participate and make a statement. This is the Civil Charter of our Parliament. Therefore, what is required by the Civil Code is done, dear friends. Secondly, again, dear friends of the question proposals brought up here today. About a year and a half passed in the 27th term. Do you guys know the total number of questions? I'll tell you: there are 21,720 questions motions sent to our ministers. 21.720. The minister's question motion is 1,357. Now, our ministers... yes, the question motions must be answered; I'm not against it, of course, it must be answered, but if you send a minister a question proposal of 1,357 in a year and a half, will the minister do his job, will he spend two or three days a week answering the question motion? In case there's a reasonable degree of question here, yes, it must be answered; I believe that, too. The second issue is again in reference to the question motions: The expression used here was said: "8 per cent of these questions have been answered." But yes, they may not have been on time, but they should have been answered later. A statement was also used as a question. And it was said that the number of questions answered here was 8%. Yes, the percentage of questions answered in time is 8 per cent; that's true, but when we include the question motions answered after 15 days, it's 44.5 per cent, dear friends. It's not a low rate, it's a 9.672 question motion answered by our ministers. Another issue, for the do-and-do model, was expressed here again, mentioned at the Victory Airport. As far as I know, there has been a payment of 26 million or 27m euros. The do-and-do projects are within the framework of public-private cooperation. Here, public and private are sharing a risk. Well, we paid Zafer Airport 26m euros. We need to think of the do-and-do model projects as a package, dear friends. Look, in 2018, yes, it was paid for 26m euros for Victory Airport, but the amount that entered the government's vault in 2018 is 440m euros, not including Istanbul Airport. So, when you think of it as a package, we see a infrastructure that is really in the public interest that can be served faster, faster. Dear friends, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to move on to my budget evaluations. Mr. President, we're going through a period when the economic and political situation at a global level has changed very quickly. We're going through a process of growing wars, regional and global tensions, natural disasters and economic uncertainty. We are going through an interesting period when international alliances have weakened, economic and political relations have become very complicated, with commercial protection and political inclusion trends growing. We're also witnessing a time when the global movement is accelerating from one polar order to multipolar disorder. Similarly, this political turmoil reflects on the economic field, regional economic alliances are weakening and trade agreements are emerging based on the country's individual interests. After the 2009 crisis, we see the lowest growth in the world, that trade talks in a sense have become trade wars, that international institutions such as the United Nations, the IMF, the World Bank, the World Trade Organization are inadequate to address the problems, and even international institutions and rules have been ignored by some countries. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we see that for the first time since the global crisis in the world, the serious revitalisation of the world's economy in 2017 has left its place to slow down since 2018. As we assess the developments in terms of geopolitical risks, increasing risks and terrorist incidents in the Middle East affect Turkey from various channels. The first is travel revenues, and the second is capital movements. Both subjects are highly sensitive to acts of terrorism, hot or cold conflict. However, with the determination and strong leadership of our President, the counterterrorism operations we've conducted in and abroad in recent years have strengthened our country's political position in the world. This also comes as a psychological factor that increases our country's strength in economic operations. I hereby thank our hero Mehmet, our martyrs and veterans, and their relatives. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Despite all sensory operations, the trust in the TRE has not been worn out, but the success of our decontamination program has strengthened its position day by day. Another channel where geopolitical risks affect our country's economy is oil prices. As a matter of fact, global geopolitical risks continue not only in the Middle East, but all over the world. Exterior intervention regimes, legitimate governments, particularly Latin American countries, are being tried to overthrow, and this causes the global economy to follow a waved course, especially oil prices. All these developments have had a negative impact on investment decisions and trade. Now international organisations and countries are forced to make macroeconomic predictions because the climate that seems to be good today can completely reverse tomorrow. As a matter of fact, the IMF revised the world growth forecast five times in 14 months. Yes, in 14 months, the IMF has revised the world growth forecast five times. International institutions, which painted a good picture 14 months ago, can be in a different way today. When we look at the IMF again, the IMF said about Turkey a year ago: Minus 2.5 stated that Turkey would shrink, but today the IMF states that Turkey would grow by 2019 plus 0.2. Mr. President, in such an environment, Turkey, which is among the countries of strong culture and civilisation in the arena of nations, is also able to stand up to global economic challenges with its influential state tradition, strong leadership and its working democracy behind it, and have a solid basis for it. The forces who have seen that we have not succumbed to the attempts to attempt such as the coup attempt, the attempted coup attempt, and that our country does not want to be strengthened, have also been frustrated by our firm stance from the economic perception operation they pressed on the button in August 2018. As a matter of fact, after 2018, Turkey also closed the year in 2019 with a positive growth and held its place among countries that did not face economic recession. If you remember, there were those who claimed that Turkey would close 2019 years with negative growth, especially international organisations, and that it would shrink by even 5%, but that did not happen. Because our government has successfully achieved growth during our entire term, not just in difficult times, but during the 2013-2018 period, it has managed to increase our economy by 5.6 per cent year-on-year, bringing our growth perception to a higher plateau. Despite all this negativity, we've shown the world how strong and resistant the Turkish economy is. Together, we have witnessed statements by some international organisations that Turkey's economy is more resistant than expected. As a matter of fact, in October 2018, the consumer price index was 25 per cent, which is now down to 10.5 per cent. Our manufacturer's Price Index was 46 per cent, which is now down to 4.2 per cent. Our two-year rate rate was at 27 per cent, at 12 per cent today. Mr. President, in the third quarter of 2019, the Turkish economy grew by 0.9 per cent and entered the growth path three quarters later. Growth data shows a significant recovery in the industrial sector in the third quarter. In the third quarter, the industrial sector grew by 1.6 per cent, and the agricultural sector also followed its support and grew by 3.6 per cent. The services sector also shows positive improvements in all non-substantiated areas that continue to revive economics. When assessed in terms of expenditures, you can see the virility of economic activity. As a matter of fact, the decline in investments and the increase in total consumption by 2.5 per cent is the most obvious indicator. As in the year 2019, the budget was ensured to play a viable economic supporting role in a reasonable deficit without being undisciplined, so public spending supported growth in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, the goal of positive growth in the medium-term programme will be achieved at a higher rate of growth. In 2019, we're making significant progress on the global scale and despite all the problems we've faced. Our export target was $182 billion, and we're doing an export of $181.4 billion in 2019, hopefully. When we look at the balance of the transactions, the target of 2019 was 26 billion dollars, but our estimate for the end of the year is a billion dollars. When we looked at the consumer price index, our goal was 15.9 per cent, and our prospects for the end of the year are 12 per cent. There's been some deviations from the goals we've set in growth, unemployment and budget deficits, but they're not enough to cloud inflation, current, interest rates, and the success we've achieved in exporting. Dear friends, in summary, I can say that despite all the negative developments on the global scale, Turkey continues to grow, develop, and become close to developed countries. As a matter of fact, in 2002 we were 37 per cent of the average income of the European Union, so we could only afford 37 per cent per person, so we're up to 65 per cent today, so we're closer to the countries of the European Union, and right now our prosperity is much higher. According to the buying power parity, we've raised our per capita income from $9.209 to $28,384. According to the buying power parite, we were ranked 13th in the world in the 17th row. Mr. Canikli just mentioned that we're entering the highest category of human development, but I'd like to briefly mention it. Dear friends, it's not just an economic achievement that you've achieved, it's not just a social achievement that you've achieved in the field; it's a fact that you've put human development too far ahead of you in both economic and social and cultural areas, in a sense, and you've entered the highest group of countries. What does that mean? This is actually a success of 17 years, a success of the AK PARTY governments. This also shows that we are doing a quality growth process in 17 years. So it's said from time to time that your growth is not quality. Yes, we've done a quality growth process, which we are now among the highest human development group countries, my dear friends. (EC PARTY Applause) Again, it's another indication that the AK PARTY governments are focusing on human beings. Dear friends, this is another matter, which has been made very often in the Plan and Budget Commission, and this, sir, is the budget of 1 percent; this is the budget of the palace. Dear friends, this budget is 100 percent our people's budget, our people's budget, our people's budget. As in the previous 17 budgets, this budget is the budget of all 82 million people and is a budget that protects the rights of all segments of society. In this scope, when we look at our budget, we're going to spend $340 billion for 3.4 million public employees, we're going to split 22 billion dollars with 2.7 million farmers, we're going to spend 176 billion dollars for our 24.3 million students, we're going to spend 189 billion dollars for our 82 million citizens' medical expenses. I don't want to go into more detail, but you can find women here, you can find young people, you can find disabled people, you can find SME businesses; whatever you're looking for is in the budget of 2020, dear friends. Another thing, dear friends, is often expressed, is that you crush our citizens with inflation. We didn't crush our citizens with inflation in any way, we didn't crush inflation, we got them to take their share of the increase in prosperity. See, the examples are in the middle, and I'm saying that the minimum civil servant's salary is actually up 74% -- the way it's been cleared of inflation -- so we've given 74 percent of the increase in prosperity. In the net minimum wage, 124 per cent is real, 51.7 per cent in the lowest SGK pension; 317 per cent in the lowest agricultural pension; 507 per cent in disability pensions, friends, 507 per cent; 507 per cent; hand off! (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) There's a 329 percent real increase in the mayor's salary. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, another important issue is the matter of the Court and the Law on Financial Management and Control. As you know, the Law on Public Financial Management and Control has been enforced again during the AK PARTY administrations. In this context, what was the scope of budget and precise account laws? Enlarged, budget law simplified, financial transparency increased. Reports sent to parliament have been greatly expanded and have increased, and we are all witnesses today, especially this year's budget talks, that many of our fellow opposition MPs have thanked the Court's reports. We also carried out a very comprehensive reform in terms of spending control, which is the Law on the Court of Law 6085. What about all the institutions and organizations that use public resources along with this law? It's under control. Before Law 6085 -- I want to express this in particular -- budget negotiations were being held without even a state-owned audit report. Once again, there were budget talks ahead of Act 6085, friends, without even a report from public institutions. In the period prior to Law 6085, budget talks were not regularly presented a second report to the Plan and Budget Commission, except for a general declaration of fitness. We have friends from the Plan and Budget Commission, how many reports this year, folks? We have a full 194 report, dear friends. After this law was passed, we received 1,315 Court reports, extensive reports, and we are taking advantage of them. Yes, we criticize it from time to time, we give guide advice, but I must say that our 199 deputies came to the Plan and Budget Commission and expressed their views in a very comprehensive way, both on the final account and on the Court's reports and on its budget. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, another field of income distribution, a facility for social justice and, yes, equal opportunity. In this regard, it has been stated that from time to time the income distribution has been corrupted, which has been expressed today -- that social justice has not been fully established, that there is no equal opportunity. A very important step has been taken during the AK PARTY administrations, aimed at improving social state understanding, improving revenue distribution, and ensuring the equality of opportunity, and you know all of that. What's our 2020 budget? We've set aside about 70 billion dollars for social expenses and it's worth 6.3 per cent of our budget. How much was that in the past? It was only 1.3 per cent of the budget. Yes, we've improved the revenue distribution -- that I'll be coming to -- and we've reduced poverty. According to the World Bank's Sustainable Development Goal Report, we became the country that reduces poverty rates in the world the most, and in the time of our governments, we provided the citizens with $315 billion in social assistance. In 2002, 30 per cent of society -- about 20 million people, according to the population at that time -- lived with less than $4.3 per day. So, according to the population at that time, 30 percent, what's the rate now? From 30 per cent to 1.6 per cent is the number of citizens living with less than $4.3. What is this? 1.2 million. Our population is up to 80 million, 1.2 million people under $4.3; our population is 60-65 million, 20 million under 4.3 dollars; the difference is these precious friends. So we've improved the revenue distribution. And I'm going to give you examples of this, and I'm going to share another 20 percent of my slice here. 20 per cent of the bottom group, dear friends, had a 5.1 per cent share in 2006; so, what's the share now? 6.1 percent. So the share of the poorest 20 percent went from 5.1 to 6.1. All right, let's look at the richest 20 percent. 48.4 per cent in 2006, but now what? It's down to 47.6%, so there's a improvement in income distribution. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, another issue, one of the issues that is often expressed, is not produced, is not grown by producing, investment is not done enough. Comments have been made. There's no production here. I'd like to address private sector investments in private, as it is called. Friends invested by the private sector for nearly 11 trillion in 2002-2018, with prices of 2018. In 2002 -- I'm bringing it back to 2018 again -- at a fixed price -- was invested in 221 billion dollars by the privates. In 2018, the private sector invested $947 billion in 2018. And what does that mean? Private sector investments are five times higher, friends, five times higher. (AK PARTY) And the percentage of the private sector's fixed capital investments increased from 15 per cent to 25 per cent. We don't produce. There's no production economy. There's criticism coming in. Before you produce it, dear friends, how do you get $34 billion in exports of industry to about 150 billion, how do you get it out?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0202par0653	With Toyota, with Toyota!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0201par0654	How do you get it from $34 billion to 150 billion without producing it?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0202par0655	With Toyota!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0201par0656	In 2002, 357000 vehicles were produced, including automobiles and other vehicles, and today we have 1,588,000 vehicles; our exports, including cars and other vehicles in 2002, were $2.2 billion. So, what's today? Twenty-two billion dollars, ten times higher. If you don't produce, I'll ask you guys how you're going to get out for $22 billion.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0202par0658	With Toyota!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0201par0659	Another thing, you might say, sir, is that we produce, but the world produces more than we do, and other countries produce more than we do. Let's see if we actually produce less than any other country. Let's see if we produce less than the average Earth scale. What are we gonna do? So we're going to look at the share of the value of the manufacturing industry in the world's manufacturing value, right? What about our share of the world in the manufacturing industry? Well, in 2002...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0203par0660	Is it just the manufacturing industry?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0201par0661	If we're talking about production, if we're talking about production, of course I'm talking about manufacturing. Now, in 2002, they were 0.69 percent friends. So, what happened in 2017? It's 1.13 percent. So we've produced more of the world's manufacturing industry, dear friends, more. I'll give you another example: in 2002, we only had one sector that exported over $5 billion. What was it? You all know, textiles.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0204par0664	You screwed him, he's finished.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0201par0665	Today, we have 11 sectors exporting over $5 billion. Again, we were ranked 10th in the world in 2002, with the value of adding manufacturing industry. So, what line are we in? We've reached the 13th place, dear friends. Again, we were in the 20th place in the world for manufacturing industry, we were in the 13th place; we were in the 10th place in Europe, we were in the 5th place, dear friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another thing, dear friends -- my time is short -- yes, because there is no production economy, is it possible that we raised the number of organised industrial areas from 197 to 313? Again, because there's no production, we've raised the number of people working in an organized industrial area of 400,000 to 2 million? 400,000 people were working, and now 2 million people are working in organized industrial areas. What are these brothers and sisters doing? They're producing. Another example: Dear friends, we only had 50 businesses in technology development areas, and today we have 5,414 businesses. Yeah, there was an increase in production, was there efficiency? Let's take a look at that; there's some serious news there. Let me give you an example: let's say that in 2009, a manufacturing industry employee produces 100 units, and today this brother produces 121-122 units, which means there's also an increase in efficiency. Another important issue is the addiction to import; it's a subject that's often spoken of. Yes, when we look at our imports, we see that the imports are high. We've actually taken some very important steps to reduce the imports of intermediary goods, and maybe that's not enough to talk about. Our Ministry of Industry and Technology has analyzed all the products that we import one by one, and has continued this work on those who can be produced in Turkey. You know, especially with the new incentive system that we've put into practice, we've also created a serious incentive mechanism to reduce dependence on imports. And we didn't stop; we started giving serious RD support to our universities, TUBITAK, and other relevant institutions to produce products that we import but are not produced in Turkey. We've identified research universities, we've identified regional universities, and we've allowed these universities to specialize in specific areas. So, yes, there are some really loaded products that we import today that may be related to petrochemicals, medicines -- a little bit of defence -- that we import, that have taken very important steps towards the production of these in Turkey, and these studies are rapidly being carried out that when we look at the share of our R&D spending within the national income, yes, especially at research universities, especially at TÜBITAK, with these supports that we've given to TBITAK. Another important issue, which I must say, is that our Digital Turkey Project is extremely important. We've created the Digital Turkey Platform to reduce bureaucracy and paperwork, simplify permits and registration procedures, to allow our citizens to do business and procedures in relation to the public, and reduce non-regularity. There are now more than 44 million users, dear friends, 44 million and 5,195 transactions currently available electronically. Studies are being carried out to solve our citizens' affairs and problems with the government from a single point, and business processes are getting shorter. As a result of these studies, our citizens are free to go door-to-door. These practices save time and money and significantly reduce off the record. My time has been cut short, but I'd like to address just a few agricultural issues. Dear friends, regional production is falling. There are criticisms in the form of agriculture that are not important. Look, it's very short, and I'll tell you, is there an increase in our plant production? Yes, I do. Do we have an increase in livestock? Yes, I do. Did we put the agricultural insurance system into practice for the first time? We did. Water products have been scarce, my dear friends, and we're now exporting water products, and we've made significant progress. In the past, we've spread the so-called understanding of rural development to every aspect of our country. You know what this is, guys? With rural development projects, we employ 100,000 of our brothers in rural and rural factories, 100,000 of our brothers and sisters. I think it's all important. Another important issue was massization, only 0.5 million hectares. Today, we have 8.3 million hectares, yes, as part of the collection, and these studies have been significantly completed -- and I want to express it from here -- and as a result of these studies, we are now ranked as the first in agricultural production in Europe and the seventh in the world, dear friends. Another issue is a 44 per cent increase in sub-casual production in the last 16 years. Another 89% increase in vegetable fruit production in the last 16 years, and we've nearly doubled it to two. And the seed, sir, is said to be importing seeds. In 2002, dear friends, we had $17 million in seed exports; today, we have 152 million in seed exports, a 775 percent increase. The rate of exporting is 31 percent in 2002, in the seed, we aim for 100 percent in the seed in 85 percent today, hopefully 2020. Mr. President, in the last 17 years, the AK PARTI has made some very important reforms, never showed a populist approach to these reforms, always considered middle and long-term; it has shown goals that our nation has adopted and stood behind until the end. These goals have been adopted by our nation, and hopefully they will continue to claim them. Today, the strong Parliament and the presidential government system are needed more than ever. As the world's power centre moves from West to East, Turkey is actually at the center of this transformation. As in the past, countries are building new regional balances, and these balances are of great interest to Turkey financially, politically and geographically. With technological advances all over the world, the generations of Y and Z will have a very different future. In this framework, Turkey, with its young population, will be one of the countries most affected by this transformation. In this context, ancient paradigms cannot produce new and lasting solutions to address the problems of countries, and that is the main reason for the unrest and turmoil in many parts of the world. On the other hand, in the international arena, I am strong, I do what I want; I do not listen to the rules, I do not listen to the rules. I believe, now, on a global scale, that our President's speech is greater than the world's 5..... is much better understood, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0205par0679	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0201par0680	Dear friends, we will continue our structural reforms as EC PARTY. From time to time, some friends from the opposition have criticised you for not doing so until today. The only thing I'm gonna say to them is, look at the change and transformation of the world. We have to adapt to change and transformation in the world and even go ahead. We're going to keep pedaling the bike, so don't stop at the reforms. We're saying keep going, dear brothers and sisters. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As I end my remarks, Mr. President thanks to our Vice President, Vice President, Treasury and Finance Ministry, President of the Presidential Strategy and Budget, and to our team, our Plan and Budget Commission and all of our MPs... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our budget of 2020 was a blessing for our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation and our precious citizens who follow us on their screens.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0206par0686	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0207par0687	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0206par0688	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0207par0691	Mr. President, with all due respect, I would like to express to you that I have not made an unjust request. Look, Mr. Canikli, let our friends know what it is to act in the name of the nation, to protect the interests of the nation, because they have lost their criteria, it is understood. They lost their criteria. I wanted to make a promise that it meant not knowing their values in context, not holding on to their values. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0208par0694	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0207par0695	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement for the record, Mr. President. I listened carefully to what the Minister said. There's a boxer's story, it's famous. He says, "You're doing so well, you're doing so well." One, two, three, so he says, "Hodja, if I'm beating this guy, who's beating me? Now I'm asking the Minister: If this economy is really so good, who is beating this nation, and why is this nation broke from poverty? He's got to tell me about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit04spe0209par0700	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0209par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, I promise five minutes each to representatives of the political party, represented by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey but without a group. First, Turkish Labour Party Chairman and Istanbul MP Mr. Erkan Baş. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0210par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and all the workers, the workers, the people who follow us. Of course, the Turkish Labour Party is a party represented in Parliament with very few MPs, but as you can see, in Congress, we can lift weights and come to the bench with a huge load. And I want to thank them with great respect. My dear friends, as you can see today, we've come to the bench with a little bit of a load. We're discussing the budget, the citizen's watching, and I have five minutes to talk. And I want our people to know that we've taken this time with great difficulty, and that's how it goes on the record. Now, I came here to let our people know what we're arguing about. These books you see are made up of 18 volumes and 13.506 pages. What we're arguing about here today is we're arguing about all of them. We're arguing about these things. I received these at four o'clock on Friday afternoon, I sat down, I did a reckoning -- we'll start seeing them at the Capitol on Monday at twelve o'clock -- Friday from 4:00 to Monday at twelve if I don't sleep, if I don't eat, if I don't drink, if I don't get up from the head of the table at all, I have sixty-eight hours to read what you see, and I need to be able to read 200 pages an hour, and that's not possible. Now, that's impossible, and I want everyone to know that, and I want our people to know that. I'm really curious, do any of you guys read? I've read it. Is there anyone who can say it? I don't think so, it's not possible, it's not scientifically possible. So no one read it. No lies, so I couldn't read them all, so I tried to study the parts that I thought were important. Now, I want to tell you that you haven't read it, but you're defending this budget that you haven't read. You don't know what's in it, but you defend it, and then you'll come back the day after tomorrow, and you'll say, "We've been tricked. To not say it, dear friends, we need to read it, we need to prepare the time to read it. Look, dear friends, 13,000 pages. At least 600 or 700 copies of this have been printed, distributed to all of us. It's a shame we're killing those trees for no reason. No one reads these. Now, I don't think that's an argument. Now, dear friends, to me, the biggest crime is lying to the public, lying to the public is the biggest crime, and let's not pretend we're talking about a budget bill here. Unfortunately, you don't read it, and unfortunately the president of the Justice and Development Party says, "I'm just sad about it, and I warn you, you don't read it, and look, you don't let anyone else read it because you want to miss this budget, you want to miss it from the MPs. More importantly, you're running this budget from workers, workers, running from the public, hiding it. Do you know why you're hiding it, dear friends? Look, here you are winning world championships. What do you win for? You created ten of the most public contractors in the world - Jangiz, Limak, Kolin, Kalyon, MNG. This budget creates these, my dear friends. Look, you know what happens next? People get cancer because they can't afford it, they get depressed, they take their own life, they do construction work, they do soup, they have to get into the restaurant business. Then, the mothers get fed up, they end their lives, and then the father commits suicide because he can't buy clothes for his child, and then the family commits total suicide because of financial hardship. After all, dear friends, I want you to know, do you know what this budget is? This Yusuf Yerkel, your staff, the man who kicked the worker, is actually throwing these books at the workers, the workers, the poor. Yeah, there's no difference between the kick here and the budget you're offering to the worker. You know why he's not here, guys? Because we all know Recep Tayyip Erdogan, don't we? Kasym Paşalı, yvanmert, lad; so we know, so we know. By the way, what happened last semester? Look, first we had a runaway palace, first we came out of the slum in Kasympaşa, then we had a runaway palace. Is that enough? It's not enough. We built a summer palace. Is that enough? It's not enough. We built a flying palace. Is that enough? Not enough? Last time we built a floating palace, we came. We came out of Kasympaşa, and became kings of palaces, and kings of palaces. My dear friends, look, something happened the other day, and Recep Erdogan started talking about his friends who were walking together, wet together, and he said: "Davutoğlu and Babacan committed fraud. You'd think he was in the opposition then, doing something like that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0211par0024	No doubt.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0210par0025	Now, this is the wound of our heart. You know why? You may have lived here again, but I was lying in this tent with the TECEL workers on Sakarya Street, so that this TEKEL would not be privatized, not sell, not be unemployed, not have the workers of TECEL become unemployed. Now we're learning that when things go bad, we find out that the TECEL was actually taken in a row. I mean, when we were getting beat up by the police for saying that, it was actually done. There's something very interesting, dear friends, where I noticed that Recep Erdoğan counted the names of 1 Prime Minister and 3 Minister: Davutoğlu, Babacan, Mehmet Simsek and Feridun Bilgin. I went and I found that decision and I made it. There's another signature on that decision, Recep Erdogan never mentioned his name. I wondered why. You know why? Because he's still an AK PARTY. What does that mean? So if he is a thief, a cheater, a con artist, an AK PARTY who has fallen into people's property, he is not guilty, but if he has left the AK PARTY, he will become a criminal immediately. I wish I had more time, we could talk more, but I think we need to talk about this in the budget, dear friends: how do we get past this poverty? How do we stop the public from living in misery? How are we going to retire the YIT people? How will pensioners live like human beings? We need to talk about that in this budget. You always ask, where's the source? Where is the source? Look, your president confessed, and he said: "The individuals have made the land of TEKEL their own. Shall I count it another way? Pashabahçe, Erdemir, Isdemir, TEKEL, Sumer Holdings, sugar factories. So you broke the privatisation record, sold everything that was done with the sweat of this country's worker, worker, father, grandfather. Looking for a source? Come on, let's find a source. Let's repossess those of your people, all of those of you who are going after them, in the name of the people, and see if there's a resource in the country for those who live in retirement, or if there's a resource for the poor, or if there's an increase in minimum wage. If you have the courage, we're ready. If you really want to discuss this budget, if you want to create resources, I say we take back the goods of the people who have fallen into the property of the people, we nationalize them all. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0212par0031	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0213par0032	You got the workers working again!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0210par0033	We're comrades with them, there's nothing we can do.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0213par0034	You've been working the workers again, bossing them around again.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0210par0035	I work, they work. I don't live on their backs like you do. Look, we work together.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0213par0036	You're the boss again.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0214par0037	Okay, guys...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0210par0038	Look, look, look, we're working together, you're sitting down, get up and help!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0215par0039	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0216par0040	You're bossing me around again!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0217par0041	Now...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0218par0042	Mr. President, did you hear that?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0217par0043	I didn't hear.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0218par0044	Your congressman insulted me.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0219par0045	Keep the size, Erkan President.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0218par0046	There's no need for rudeness.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0220par0047	You were rude.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0218par0048	You're insulting me.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0221par0049	Guys, please, I mean, we've been running a good show all morning. Please...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0218par0050	Mr. President, he's insulting me.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0222par0051	It's not an insult, dear. I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0223par0052	That's no way to talk to a general president!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0222par0053	I said, get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0223par0054	It's a shame, really. It's a shame.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0224par0055	Guys... Now, on behalf of the Party of Saadet, Istanbul MP Nazır Jhangir belongs to Islam. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0225par0059	Mr. President, my dear friends, first of all, I would like to thank both the Presidential Court and the political parties with their group, but I would like to thank all of you for our right to have this conversation and not to be institutionalized. My dear friends, in terms of these budget talks, you know, human rights, democracy and the actions of the government, it's kind of a summary, and that's what our debates here focus on. I'm going to start with something that's always been left to the end; it's a matter of the environment. See, the Kaz Mountains, Alaplı, Ünye Fatsa, and other 158 surface water sources that have been turned into a non-drinkable state, the way you look at blessings, the universe and the environment, your success here. As for education, we look at PISA results, we are 52 percent of the 72 countries, 16 percent of the eighth graders are incapable of doing four procedures; this is your view of education, your success in education. The City University incident is another disaster. In fact, a few years ago, you're trying to break up, shut down, maybe shut down a college that you laid down together, opened together, and a college that's actually trying to get into college, just because of political breakups. Another success, the number of millionaires. While this country is becoming poor, while you are taking the economy down, we are looking at the number of millionaires with 44,000 in 2012, 214 thousand in 2019. Here's a summary of your economic sense of justice, your success. We're looking at GDP, $950 billion in 2013, dropped steadily, and today, in 2019, you reduced it to 749 billion. This is a summary of your success in the economy and your stability in the economy. My dear friends, there was 8.4% unemployment in 2012, but in 2019, you raised it to 14 percent, and the youth unemployment rate is 27.4%. This is the summation of your success in employment. We're looking at the national income per person, the $9.647 you're aiming at, you're sitting at $9.093, and this year you're saying, "We're going to increase it, we're going to increase it, we're going to increase it to over $10,000. Shall we believe it? We can't believe it. Why? E, you've given 0.5 percent growth in 2019, you've set a five percent growth target in 2020. Should we believe it? I personally can't believe it. The budget deficit in 2018 is 10 per cent, and the deviation in 2019 is 55 per cent. My dear friends, look, the palace eats $4.5 million a day. The cost of this palace is 67,000 minimum wage for one day. The money you spend on covered funds is 5 billion 410 million; that's the annual income of 223,000 minimum wagers. Here's a summary of your savings and austerity policy. Mr. President went to the country of Islam and said: "There is a 200fold gap between your richest and the poorest of you. We are looking at 20 percent at the top and 20 percent at the bottom, the cliff is 8 stories at the bottom, but if we do a computation between 1 per cent and 1 per cent at the bottom, believe me, we can predict that it will exceed 200 per cent. Here's a summary of your total economic success. The trustees... the black Transporters you're selling instead of the white Toros you're selling, and Yusuf Bilge Bronzen, these are the summations of your view of your safety and your citizens. 140,000 exports, 2 million affected. 17,000 women -- 17,000 women have never slept in prisons in Islam -- 800 children in prison, nearly 70 suicides -- this is your view of your own society and human rights, your success here. What do your officials say, leaders of your party?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0226par0068	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0225par0069	Mr. Saved says that if it wasn't for July 15th, we would've finished this cleanup in 2030. On the other hand, Süleyman Soylu, your Home Secretary, your Home Secretary, who insults you when you ask a question, accuses you of being a member of the PKK, I am not a Supreme Court. He says: I do not care about the Constitution, nor do I care about the law, nor do I care about you; that's the summary. Here's a summary of your sense of right, law and justice. Women's murders, job murders and suicide with cyanide. Cyanide suicide isn't just about poverty, it's about disparaging society and your insensitivity. These are our country's main problems, but it's possible to get out of here. We can only do that with one hand. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY]] Thank you. Now, it's time for the Democratic Party's President and Afyonkarahisar MP Gültekin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0227par0077	My dear lawmakers, my dear nation watching us on the screen, first of all, let our talks be a blessing. As we know, the constitution protects and restricts people's lives against absolute power, and parliament protects and restricts the property of the nation through budgetary rights, against absolute power, against arbitrary understanding. Since Magna Carta, he has also asked the tax collectors to account. The decision has been the reason for the existence of parliaments. Today, we have denied that right, as we reject historical and institutional development. If we need proof of where we came from, it's enough to remember how we were doing what we were doing here ten years ago, 20 years ago, and before. Ten years ago, 20 years ago, when budget debates were being held in this place, the whole country almost held its breath and turned around and watched. The issues we're talking about here are decisions that will determine his future; he knew that important things are happening here, that the people he's given power of attorney will make important decisions. After all this time, we've come back. We've lost our respect for the world with the foreign policy preferences beyond our capacity, and more importantly, we've cut off our gains, our democracy's national will, the bond of illumination. We're supposed to be negotiating the 2020 budget at such a cost. I would like to make certain assessments in order to fulfill our responsibility, despite the removal and removal of the most basic column of his existence. We'd find the actions of governments over the budget and their future program appropriate or reject their predictions, or rather, we'd reject it, and that would be a conclusion, but where we come from, unfortunately, whether we think we're in favor of this budget or not, we're dealing with an event that doesn't change anything. Dear lawmakers, here we have not only the 2020 budget, but 17 years uninterrupted, but we have to evaluate the implementation of the understanding of the AK PARTI that some of them deny their term, because there is a political understanding today that turns into whatever it says it will fight in 17 years. I've told you before, 17 years ago, if we take the names of their parties out of the founding documents and put them in front of them, who wrote this? They'll question themselves. Look at the criticisms, demands that the opposition has said today in Turkey, and I assure you, 17 years ago, they themselves had to question where we've been driven, when we've been driven away in 17 years, despite all their powers, billions of dollars budgets, especially if the resources that we've spent, despite the fact that they've broken the budget themselves and they've done it themselves, don't take the country where we've been driven away. Just yesterday, a former AKP Diyarbakır MP said that state staffs in his province have Rayic prices. We've become Turkey, where the payer can get a staff, not the one who deserves an opportunity equal. What's more, we're living on a standard of judicial, administrative, political control, which is not subject to public supervision. We can't even talk anymore. Who's to believe that contracts are legal when the government staff is set up? The clearest indication of decomp, how the country's assets were used, how they were squandered, has just been expressed, the charges against İstanbul City University have been made. The former Prime Minister here wants to have the prime ministers and presidents look into the state's request's assets, under hinting. As a responsible politician here, Mr. Davutoglu must share all of this with the public rather than insinuate what he witnessed and knew during his reign. We are in such a state that corruption, unfortunately, has become a threat to the national security of our state. In the past, institutional documents -- as I've expressed it -- democratization and development are not the alternative, but the processes that are supposed to work together, that support each other. That's what we say, development and democratization are the processes that work together. In order to manage the country more easily, we cannot expect development on one side, on the other. There is no development without democracy, I'm afraid. We're talking about a budget that we can't come up with because of what we're trying to come up with, but because of the corruption, the irregularities, the resources that have been wasted, the freaks we call public-special cooperation. The first condition of equivalence is that it is open to control and transparent. If that's not the case, it's double-digit unemployment, double-digit inflation, interest, poverty, suicides and bankruptcy. Today is the day of humility, which is December 9th, the World War Against Corruption Day. At a point like this, I'll call the Grand National Assembly, remember that we're the representatives of our nation, and we'll work on the transfer of the budget to Parliament. Let's find a cure for the democracy that has been wounded by meeting its most basic duty and quality in this Grand Assembly. As always, the word says, people believe that it should be so, that the word of the nation is more than the word of a man or a group, and I salute you all with it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0228par0089	Thank you. It is now time for the leader of the Grand Unity Party and Ankara MP Mustafa Destici. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0229par0093	Mr. President, my dear lawmakers, my nation of Necip, first I salute you with respect, love, respect, and conversation. In five minutes, I would like to present our views on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal with your grand delegation and the nation of Necip. Dear members, 2020 is a time when the central management budget, global trade wars and financial fluctuations, as well as when our country was prepared and brought to our House in an environment where geopolitical risks and threats were threatened. Again, the 2020 budget appears to be prepared based on the prospect of a moderate recovery in terms of global growth. Again, in 2020, expectations, especially in terms of global growth, are also expected to enter the trend of moving, moderate growth in developing countries. Precious lawmakers, despite everything, budgets are prepared to ensure that sustainable growth, fair sharing, continued financial discipline, improve public balances, maintain finance policy, protect public finances, and in this sense, many goals will be carried out. In light of these perspectives, when we look at the central management budget for 2020, I would like to share with you some of the following findings. The budget costs of 2020 are 1 trillion 95.5 billion and their income is 956.6 billion and the budget deficit is 138.9 billion euros. As of these figures, the proportion of the budget deficit to national income is to be envisioned below 3 per cent. In the event of accuracy in these figures, it would be possible to mention a improvement in public debt. Of course, one of our important issues is the struggle against employment and unemployment. The budget is under the promise of 60,000 recruitment, with 1 million,22,000 new jobs forecasts. The unemployment rate is expected to take place at 13 per cent in 2019, with a landing at 9.8 per cent starting in 2020. Of course, a serious mobilization is necessary to achieve that. Dear lawmakers, my dear nation, another vital issue is interest. The balance of interest and investments of the budget has been corrupted in favour of interest in last year's courtship increase. In 2020, we need to know that this balance will be restored and that transition to the investor economy will not be possible until interest rates change. The budget also seems to have earmarked $138.9 billion for interest costs. This shows that his share of the budget is close to 13 percent. So from tax revenues collected in 2020, $17 of each $100 goes to interest payments. That's one of the things that needs to be dealt with and solved. When we look at the revenues, the revenues are made up of $784.6 billion in taxes and 172 billion in other revenues. The thing that bothers us about taxes collected in the tax language is that on average, direct taxes in OECD countries are 70 per cent, and we are only 33 per cent. Our indirect taxes are at 67 percent. It is not fair for us to receive equal taxes, not from the winner, but from the rich, the poor, the middle class, and that is one of the things that must be corrected. Of course, promising developments in the current open are an increase in exports and tourism. Hopefully, in a few years, we won't have an open matter. We also realize that in 2020, when we consider spending pencils in the central management budget along with arrangements for tax revenues and possible increases, we must make considerable effort in 2020. Precious MPs, the budget is not just a gate of numbers or an accounting technique. It would be insufficient to assess the budget only with debts or deficits. The budget is an important policy tool for growth and development. For this, the budget is not about financial discipline, open or overpaying, but about using resources in the most efficient, most efficient way and sharing them fairly. Of course, there was a really good increase in minimum wage here last year. The $2.020 -- I mentioned it in last year's budget talks here -- based on what? According to last year's budget increase. There was a 26 percent increase, and this year there was an increase of 22.5. We say that with this increase, we expect the minimum wage to be made at $2,475. Today we have three martyrs, two of whom are in Şırnak, one of whom is in Bingol. When I end my words, I ask for God's mercy. I call upon our wounded veterans for immediate healing. Of course, some of the issues that have been expressed here have deeply disturbed us, injured us, and it is this: it is wrong to express the dismissal of the mayors of the terrorist organization as democracy, conscience, the people's will or the nation's coup to the game, and we expect everyone to come back from this wrong because it does not justify being chosen, helping terror or terrorist. (EA/DG) So the Ministry of Interior's application is also due to laws, not a arbitrary practice, but laws are being carried out. Again, in the same way, it is in our view that it is equal to treason to declare the Operation Peace to the north of Syria as an attack or occupation. It only serves to say that Kurdish, Turkmen, or Alevi, does not matter as much as Sunni, and only because we are members of the great Turkish nation, Kurd, Turkmen, Alevi, Sunni, Bosniak, Çerkek.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0230par0109	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0229par0110	I'll get right on it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0231par0111	Let's do it, because I added two minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0229par0112	I know, thank you very much. As important as I am, I am a Kurdish brother, and my brother Alevi is just as important. The more important a Turk is, the more important he is in this land. The more a Sunni is a first-class citizen of this state, the more a first-class citizen of the Alemi. For him, such statements in the High Council hurt us. And our only advice here is that this is a wrong turn because the sons of this nation paid for those who didn't turn back a hundred years ago. For him, I say we have no right to make anyone pay the price, and I salute you with love, respect, and respect. I pray that 2020 budget talks are a blessing from my great Lord.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0231par0115	Thank you. Dear friends, the first speaker on behalf of himself is İstanbul MP Erol Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0232par0120	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Computation Act Proposal on behalf of myself. I salute our coven. Immediately, at the beginning of my words, we have martyrs today, we have three martyrs -- I ask God to have mercy on all of our martyrs, their position is paradise, and I wish our veterans a good, long life. But one of our martyrs is our daughter Esma, the commander of explosive destruction, and I'm stressing. For this country, it is wise to express once again how much we must take care of everyone who strives for this nation. Dear lawmakers, I want to thank our ministers and our members of the Plan and Budget Commission who have been working on the budget. In my speech, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to stress more about the future of our country and the future of our nation, rather than the technical numbers, but of course, in case we're talking about the budget, it would be rude to say anything. In particular, as we go to 2020, we all witness that the negative paintings of Turkey's growth figures have evolved to positive, given by the world's concerned organisations. Inflation is expected to exceed $180 billion in exports. With a 16 per cent increase in revenue in tourism, we should be able to express that we have passed 52 million tourists. We should also express the remains of direct investment in Turkey as it decreases in the world by 2018. In 2019, I stress that it's important that we tell our farmer that we have 55.9 billion dollars of support for 907,000 farmers, and that we've also given 40 billion dollars for our 560,000 tradesmen. Now, dear friends, from 1923, we are discussing the 97th budget today - the 97th budget from the day the republic was founded. This budget is also the 18th budget of our new government system, which the EC PARTY governments have prepared, and the 2nd budget of our new government system; may my Lord bless it. Parliament makes budgets for the nation, and these budgets are directly effective in the economic, social and political life of society for a year, showing where and at what extent the resources needed to serve the nation will be provided. The budget for 2020, such as the budgets of the EC PARTY governments in the past years, will still be a budget based on the services of our nation. Once again, it is useful to stress that a human-based budget is being made, with family and social policies being valued, with education and health priorities. In other words, our budget was made to carry out government policies that thought 82 million of our people would come, and to ensure that our children, our young people, our women, can look more securely at life. I congratulate and thank all those who have passed the effort. On the other hand, as we enter the year 2020, we see a period of political and economic crises when we look at the world's conjunctive. In addition, despite ongoing speculative operations against Turkey, our country has succeeded in exiting this process. I'm confident that our government will achieve growth numbers that will reassure friends in the economy in the coming process. Dear friends, when we look at 100 years of republic history and examples of the world, we should stress that three things are important for a country's peace, prosperity and development. One is that the country has a goal; the second is that there is a political will to carry out these goals, and the third is that the faith and support of the nation are behind them. Precious friends, when we look at the processes Turkey has developed and has grown, we see this happening during the period of strong and stable governments. I'd like to give you an example of history: In 1973, the late Ozal, as a bureaucrat to Demirel, wrote a letter about Turkey's future, about the problems he saw, the problems he had, and the solutions he had. I remember them both with mercy. In the autonomous assessments, Turkey passed on its industrial and agricultural policy, its findings on energy, the need to strengthen local governments, its important issues with education and foreign policy, today's picture of tourism, and its proposals, everything that would be an engine to the development of the country, such as the construction of public housing, to the government, fifty years ago, but it had not been done for many years -- and I wanted to underline that particular issue -- because there was no strong and stable government in our country. All such goals can only be achieved during the period of strong and stable rulings, as they were during the EC PARTY. In other words, during the period of Menderes, Özal and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey has made up for decades of missing years and continues to make up for it. Mr. President, as we have stated in the beginning, our country's original vision of -2019, 2020 is absolutely important, we need to talk about it, but these numbers have been talked about here a lot, but the main vision is 2023, 2053, 2071. When we look at the developed countries of the world, we see that each one has its goals. The countries that lost World War II set targets for themselves to win the economic war and carried out a full-scale development campaign. The countries, such as Japan, Germany, France, are examples of this. Although South Korea was destroyed in 1950, today it became the world's largest oil-consuming, most steel-making country in the world, with the world's 10 largest brands. And how did these countries do that? As an example from America, because the name of today's President of the United States is being used, I don't see any blame for using the old ones -- Kennedy's speech at Rice University in 1962 says we'll be going to the moon in ten years. He puts this goal on the American people, and the work that started at this point has given America the golden age of science, and all the scientific work that will help it has reached its peak. This is also the carrier engine of the American economy today. The gate of space has been opened, countries have raced with each other, developed technologies, budgets have been set aside for all of this. Dear friends, as in developed countries around the world, the EC PARTY set goals for our country. I'd like to point out that I'm not talking about an annual or five-year development plan. Long-term goals have been set and plans to change the fate of our country. As a matter of fact, when we look at the goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071, 2023 vision of high value and quality exports, raising national income per capita, increasing non-national demand to the top 10 countries; in the economy, in politics, in industry, in agriculture, in education, in health, in terms of producing our own plane, in our own car, in terms of building our weapons, in terms of the success of the fight against terrorism. As a result, Turkey's Space Agency was founded for the first time. Initiating national satellite production. The production of drones and drones has been carried out. Our defense industry has been largely domesticated. The transportation infrastructure has been developed and strengthened. Our health care system has entered the world's model applications. It was impossible to imagine these targets until yesterday. Dear lawmakers, the services to be done are limited to the scope of available opportunities and the coercion of environmental factors. It has to be known that the fight against terrorist organisations such as the PKK, YPG, DAİS, and Å has been uncompromising, the largest deportation operations in the history of the Republic, the international economic attacks against our country, the most significant expenditures from our country's resources, we have made our budget in a period of time when the world trade wars are under way, the causes of important international organisations are being questioned, the average of growth and trade volumes in the world, and we have never been able to save ourselves from difficulties. This budget, like our 17 other budgets, is a human-focused, service-based and investment-oriented budget, despite all internal and external problems. Here in this morning's episode, a friend of ours asked what the AK PARTY's 2023 goals were, was it imagination or garbage? Now, dear friends, I'd like to share with you the figures of development in the last ten years of the last decade of Turkey's last decade, the 17 years of the AK PARTI. In 2010, 8.5 per cent; 2011 11.1 per cent; 2012 4.8; 2013 8.5 and 2013, Turkey experienced a break.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0233par0135	Let's complete it, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0232par0136	Thank you. In 2014, we see a trend of 5, 2016 3,2; 2018 2.8. This is 2013, the year of the break. So if we look at what happened in 2013, in the economic indicators of Turkey in May 2013, we see that the $23 billion debt was paid to the IMF, that the Stock Exchange was in the 90s -- we're talking about six years ago -- we're talking about the last six years of AK PARTI's power -- that the interest went down to 4.5 percent, that exports exceeded 150 billion dollars, and the Central Bank had a $135 billion reserve. The travel has begun, the Vandals have begun to burn this country. After that, we encountered traitors who wanted to weaken Turkey and the state. On December 17th and 25th, we had to fight the dark focus of the coup d'état. On the 15th of July, we fought against the bastards who sold our country -- forgive me for that expression. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me wrap this up.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0234par0140	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0232par0141	Yeah, and finally, we're dealing with keyboard thieves who want to sabotage our economy through courtship. We're still standing. This country continues to grow despite these traitors and the curses who applaud them. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We look to the future with more confidence and confidence. As I finish my words, Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar says: "The accumulated power of the nations jumps and passes over the faults of generations. This great and accumulated power of our nation has passed over all these errors. Dear friends, I salute you all from the Lord of the Rights to welcome our 2020 budget to our country, to bring peace and security to our country and to make our development even greater. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0235par0146	Thank you. Dear friends, now, on behalf of the administration, Mr. Fuat Oktay, the Vice President has requested a statement. Here you are, Mr. Oktay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 80 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0151	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you once again. At the beginning of my words, I wish Allah's mercy and immediate healing to our wounded, again the head of our nation. I wish that 2020 Central Management Budget Law and 2018 Final Account Law Proposal would be a blessing for our country and our nation. I will first try to re-evaluate the budget from the presidential cabinet's point of view during the time set aside for the administration. Besides, I'm going to try again to respond to the issues mentioned under budget so far. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Turkey has moved to the presidential government system to strengthen democracy, speed up decision-making and implementation mechanisms to serve our nation more effectively. In the second year of transition to the government system, we have planned, programmed, efficient, fast and transparent actions that will move our country further with the resources provided by the system, and we continue to place them. The system has been supported and embraced by our beloved nation with its contributions. With the quick formation of the government right after the elections, the presidential government has shown its successes, such as stability, separation of distinct forces, effective crisis management, simplification of governance, quick and strong decision-making. It is a system of governance that makes national will even stronger, which will respond to the need for stable and result-oriented executives when the separation of forces is evident. With the presidential government system, the debate on forming a government has been terminated. The problems caused by the coalition authorities in Turkey have been eliminated by the Presidential government system. Along with our management system, which established the separation of specific forces, the authority to make law has been fully established by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The presidential government system has also offered strong decision-making and effective governance in all areas. With the transition into the system, rapid and effective decision-making of both domestic and external threats and a stronger co-ordination of economic attacks, which have been more effective in combating terrorism, and again, quickly responded with programmes that strengthened our economy. Likewise, in all other applications, the same effective coordination and application continue at all speeds and also with flexibility, of course. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as a result of our evaluations in the first year of the system, 98 percent of the problems that have arisen have come from practice. The evaluation results of the presidential government system, which is a living and developing system, are being implemented gradually. The question was, is the president's oath of neutrality conflicting with the party's presidency? The president's neutrality is a principle that he must act without discrimination among the citizens. The fact that the president is a party member does not prevent him from acting objectively as head of the administration; it is not unknown that in the past, partyless presidents have been highly biased, even causing political and economic crises due to their bias. Again, let's not forget that in the previous system, the prime ministers were participants. There have been some criticisms of the vice-presidentship, ministries and ministers, and even harsh criticisms. The presidential government system has passed through parliament, gone to a public vote, and the nation has exercise its sovereignty. By accepting the new system, our nation, Parliament and the great Assembly have again demonstrated its will. What does the presidential government system, which the parliament and the nation approved? The nation chooses and determines the President, and the President determines its cabinet, including its deputy, he says. What does the opposition say? I don't know the will of the House or the will of the nation. He says I will not accept this practice approved by the nation and Parliament. I am a man who adopted Mr. President's political programme under the will and approval of the elected President, nation and Parliament, and took office as Vice President under the authority of the nation, under oath in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ministers are the same. So we're not civil servants, but, as we've just been expressed, we're government representatives framed in the Constitution. But as far as we can tell, the Republican People's Party has a problem with government officials. I don't know what that is, between civil servants and the Republican People's Party, I'm transferring him there, to our civil servants.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0237par0164	Mind your own business, leave him to us. Get to work, get to work.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0165	I'm doing my job. The nation and the Supreme Assembly have also given us the authority to grant us a budget under the separation of forces, between men and men, and the authority to give the president power of attorney. You, as always, will not accept the will of the nation, and will not. You may continue to say, "You are free."
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0238par0168	It's not the will of the people, but you're the appointed man.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0239par0169	That's an unacceptable understanding of the 31st of March!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0170	The Vice President and ministers' political activities are not prohibited in the Constitution. Therefore, the ministers may be political party members, founders, managers, as well as political statements, using their political will.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0239par0171	They'll talk like they've been assigned!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0172	Politics is to determine the objectives of the state's activities as purpose, method and content, and to determine the basis for regulation and implementation, and the President, the Vice President, the Vice President and the Ministers contribute to their determination at the highest level, within the scope of the administration. It's a matter of nature to make a statement on a high-level contribution. If there were only technocrats, the ministers would not take oaths in parliament, they would not be granted immunity from the Constitutional Court, nor would they be given regulations on their trial in the Supreme Court. On the other hand, it's important to remind you that, like any political figure, it's only absurd to claim that we have no right to political criticism in a place where we're criticized.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0240par0175	The deed manager doesn't come here to criticize us. If the deed doesn't criticize the managers, neither will you!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0176	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been questioned again what the 2020 budget stands for. The 2020 budget is a budget by which the EC PARTI governments, which have won the nation's favours for 18 years, are prepared on the basis of the authority from the nation; it is a budget that our nation has shown to our governments for the 18th time; the presidency is the budget of the government system that we have drawn up in the period of 2023, which dates to the 100th year of our Republic.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0241par0177	It'll probably be his last budget.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0178	...the 11th Development Plan is the 2nd budget of the EC PARTY government, which prepares and implements the Nineth and Tenth Development Plans. The 2020 budget is the budget of Turkey, which is improving, growing, strengthening. The 2020 budget is Turkey's budget, which increases its prosperity, distributes its income fairly and fairly, reduces poverty, and ends absolute poverty. The 2020 budget, its tax dollars from its citizens, not interest, but school, hospital...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0242par0179	Sidebar...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0180	...the budget of Turkey, which can transform students into their homes, roads, bridges, dams, pensions, farmers, employees, investments, production, total prosperity growth. (AS/TK) The 2020 budget is an effective budget for the period of discipline and change after the balancing process that we have carried out in line with their goals. The 2020 budget is Turkey's budget, which is the first of the world's 20 economies to be heard in its region and in the world, and is a strong budget for a change of local and national economic movement in all areas towards the full independence of our national economy. The 2020 budget, as it has been for 17 years, is a budget that serves people in 18 years, and it is a budget for all of us. (Applause from the AK PARTY) It is a budget that protects and protects the poor poor, the orphan; it is a budget that opens the way for our young ones who pursue their hopes and dreams, boosts their confidence in tomorrows; it is a budget that implements the demands of our children and women, who are the main pillar of society, who are social and economically strengthened every day. The 2020 budget is a budget through Turkey in 2018, showing that the play was not held by the economy, that it did not kneel to the Turkish economy, that certain centers were frustrated. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The 2020 budget is a budget that will strengthen the economic and financial stability of the trust and predictability we provide in the economy. The 2020 budget is a budget that will contribute to Turkey's economy's continued progress by further strengthening its path; it is a budget that will boost investments, boost employment, reduce inflation and interest; it is a budget that will make investments, production, production, employment stronger, and our aim to continue with determination. The 2020 budget is the budget of Turkey, which can respond in the strongest way to all threats on the inside and outside, which can eliminate domestic and external threats with domestic defence systems and destroy terrorism at its source. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with the reforms we've implemented during our governments, the fiscal discipline we've implemented and the investments we've made, we've managed to increase our economy to higher rates than before, and we'll continue to succeed. In the financial sector, I would also like to say that the non-national gross rate of assets in the banking sector reached 104 per cent in September 2019 from 59 per cent in 2002. In October 2019, capital efficiency in the banking sector was 18.5 per cent, and this level exceeds the minimum of international standards, which are 8 per cent. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the coming period, we will implement policies in the field of public finance, without compromise from financial discipline, to protect economic stability, to support growth, to contribute to domestic savings and investments. As part of the Treasury-backed loan warranty, the bail volume reached about 320 billion liras in November and the loan volume reached 367 billion dollars in November, and 295,000 businesses took advantage of the system. 76 per cent of the bail was provided to the SMEs. As part of the IVME Financial Package, about 39.8 billion-dollar loans were offered for the benefit of companies, with over 49,000 credits as part of the package and about 24.2 billion loans were earmarked to companies. Three action plans have been implemented as part of the reduction of the informal economy and the incentive of the registered economy, followed by a planned and decisive strategy for fighting. The Anti-Regional Strategy Anti-Economist Strategy, covering the period 2019-2021, was implemented within April. To consolidate tax justice, we implement regulations to ensure higher income groups pay more taxes, pay certain international taxes with international applications, and increase the capacity to tax our narrow-income citizens by protecting them. We're minimizing the need for our citizens to go to the IRS with digital apps that are very friendly. So we reduce tax harmonisation costs, provide ease, speed and activity in tax transactions. In addition, we have been able to stabilize the wolf by taking the necessary measures against the speculative attacks at the exchange rate. The agreements with foreign or foreign currency indexes have been raised by the Turkish lira, which, with some exceptions, has been forced to determine Turkish lira, and debt costs have been lowered, and the EU-defined stock of general government debt has been significantly reduced to its sensitivity to interest, currency and liquidity risks. Over 26 per cent in 2019, the Turkish lira debt cost has been reduced to less than 12 per cent since October 2017. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, individual pensions and auto-accession systems are being boosted. As of November 2019, the number of participants in the individual pension system reached 6.8 million people, the state contribution has increased to $16.4 billion, and the total fund size has increased to $113.2 billion. Mr. President, good lawmakers, education is the main pillar on which we build our future. The strong society can only be reached by the good use of human capital, through a qualified education process. In this understanding, 176.1 billion euros have been earmarked from the education budget, creating 16.1 per cent of the central management budget in 2020. All activities in the field of education have been earmarked to the Ministry of National Education for $125.4 billion. As a result of the policies being implemented, significant increases are being made in schooling rates of all educational and teaching levels. In 2020, 4 billion 514 million liras were earmarked for transport training. In 2020, 804 million liras were earmarked for teaching support for private vocational upper secondary schools and other private schools. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have made significant improvements in basic health indicators since 2002 as part of health care services. We believe that by respecting our citizen's habits, beliefs, and expectations, we will achieve our goals by having a health system that provides for their needs. In this case, we have earmarked 188.6 billion dollars for health expenses in the budget of 2020. Thus, in 2002, we increase the budget of health expenditures of 11.3 per cent to 17.2 per cent in 2020. The $98.4 billion of the resources we've devoted to health spending is reserved for treatment spending, $47.3 billion for drug spending, and $10.5 billion for family medicine. Early detection and treatment have reached a 99 percent success rate in baby screening programs to prevent permanent injury. In hospitals, rooms that are largely ward-type have been moved from one to two qualified rooms. More than 70 per cent have been raised to a qualified bed, which is 6 per cent at the head of the Health Transformation Programme. In 2020, 84 more hospitals are scheduled to be opened. As part of the public-special cooperation model, 10 city hospitals with 13.423 beds have been opened, and nine city hospitals with nearly 15,000 beds are under construction. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers were used to fund $117.4 billion during the 2003-2018 period as part of agricultural support. By the end of 2019, it was estimated to be $134.3 billion. According to the Agricultural Policy Watch and Evaluation Report of the Organisation for Economic Development and Co-operation, Turkey is 1.3 per cent of the GDP estimates of total agricultural support in 2018. Since 2002, many supports, such as diesel, fertilizer, nuts, tea bonuses, wheat and other grain bonuses, bait plants, beekeeping, water products, again, honey, small animals, organic agriculture, rural development, agricultural insurance, and storage in licensed warehouses have been implemented. The agricultural support budget increased by 36.7 per cent in 2020 according to the 2019 budget, along with bonus increases in current support and new support factors. About 11,000 projects have thus far been provided with $4.5 billion in grants as part of projects providing assistance to investments in rural areas. In 2019, the investment of 490 projects continues. These projects have invested $9 billion in rural areas, providing nearly 92,000 new jobs. Agricultural loans continue to apply an interest reduction of between 25 per cent and 100 per cent and zero interest loans in the livestock sector. In the last 17 years, as the world's forest presence wanes, our country's forest presence has increased by 1.8 million hectares. As of 2023, the world's population, 7 billion saplings, will be met with land. In terms of the importance of human health, our efforts to maintain consumer health continue continuously, with an understanding of reliable food consumption from tarla to table. We didn't let anyone play with public health, we won't. We expose and continue to publicize food companies producing unhealthy food, copying, and combustible food companies. Mr. President, in the 2000s, electricity consumption of 130 billion kilowatts increased by 134 per cent, while in 2018 it was 304.2 billion kilowatts and 252.2 billion kilowatts in the first ten months of 2019. 36% of electricity produced during January 19th-October was provided from coal, 46 per cent from renewable energy sources, 17 per cent from natural gas, and the rest from other sources. At the same time in 2019, the ratio of local and renewable sources to electricity production was 64 per cent. The efforts to increase the domestic and renewable energy share in the energy portfolio continue, with local coals aimed at increasing the energy output of renewable sources such as wind, sun, hydraulics, geothermals. The facilities under the model for renewable energy resource fields, which have domestic production, domestic employment and RD requirements, will be established with high domestic and advanced technology. There will be serious domestic employment in the factories to be built. In the 2000s, only five cities used natural gas, while today all 81 of our provinces and 530 counties and cities were delivered natural gas. 63% of our country's population have been offered the use of natural gas, and they are continuing to try to increase the number of settlements provided with natural gas supplies. The TANAP project, which formed the main backbone of the Southern Gas Corridor, opened in 2018, carried out about 3 billion 180 million cubic metres of gas at the end of October 2019. One of the Turkish Akim natural gas pipelines, each of which has a capacity to transport 15.75 billion cubic metres of natural gas year-on-year from our country to the border of neighbouring states, will provide natural gas supply to our country and the other to Europe. By the end of 2019, natural gas supplies will be provided to Turkey via Turkish Akkım. In the first nine months of 2019, 117 oil-seeking, production and detection wells were opened and a total of 250,000 metres were drilled for the discovery of oil potential. Nuclear energy will be included in supply sources, increasing resource diversity and supply security with zero emissions nuclear power plants. As a result of recent reforms, more than 100 billion investments in the energy sector have now reached 81 per cent of the private sector, 40 per cent of electricity production in 2002. In 2002, our mining exports, which amounted to about 700 million dollars, took place in 2018 as $4.56 billion, as part of an effective assessment of underground resources. Mr. President, the fight against terrorist organizations, including the high-profile lawmakers, the PKK/PYD-YPG and DEAS, has been carried out with determination and determination within integrity and co-ordination with all our security forces in and abroad. In operations against terrorist organisations, the destruction of logistical bases and warehouses, the disarming of so-called leading staffs, the pressure created by borderline and beyond, continued to fight terrorist organisations until the end. We're working hard to combat all the terrorist elements that target our country directly, to ensure the safety of our borders as well as to establish a place where asylum seekers can live safely in their homes. We will clear the west of Fırat from terrorism and bring peace, security and basic services to the east of Fırat, Arab, Kurdish, Turkish, Turkish, Yezidi, Keldani, our brothers from every background, just as we have operated our hospitals, schools, churches and mosques, agricultural work and infrastructure services in the region. YPG/PK/PD, DSG -- whatever you want to call it, all letters of the alphabet -- are never, never, never representative of Kurds, as dangerous as DEAS -- the extension of the PKK/PKK/PYD, which massacres innocent civilians on our borders. (AK PARTY) By ignoring this fact, those who make use of it and give open, closed support have hurt our nation's conscience. Our struggle is to destroy the scourge of terror that has haunted our country for many years, and it will continue with determination. The mayors, who have been identified as using municipal resources for the public's services in favour of the terrorist organisation as part of the judicial and administrative investigations conducted against them, have been suspended from office in a legal framework. We will never allow the people's will and resources to be harvested by terrorist organizations. It is a constitutional obligation to be appointed trustees to those who have been found to support terrorism and municipalities where they are home. It is the main legal reason for the dismissal of those who founded the terrorist organization, who are a member of it, who promote it, and who praise the crime they committed. Under a so-called co-chair with no legal basis, people who have been elected and authorized by whom are legally elected are legally elected mayors. These co-chairs have been identified in judicial and administrative investigations, where they run the municipalities under the orders of separatist terrorist organizations, and make the municipalities the center of the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0243par0210	We don't understand how you would sit in those seats without the concept of terror.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0211	Given our Constitution, the Turkish Penal Code and our country's years of struggle against separatist terrorist organizations, it is a necessity and the necessity of democracy to rid our municipalities of the terror elements. Under what guise, those who have been identified as serving terrorism will be dismissed from their duties and will be judged under the law; this is our primary duty to our nation and to our martyrs. In addition to domestic and border-wide anti-terrorism activities, our rights, interests, and interests in our blue homeland, including Cyprus and its environment, are protected with determination and determination. In order to protect our national interests in the Eastern Mediterranean and Cyprus, TCG Barbaros Hiktin Pasha and TCG Orucreis have continued and will continue their activities in the investigation and drilling of our research ships, Yavuz and Fatih drilling ships, the frigate of our Navy, corvet, drone and SIHA. The 4th ship of the MILGEM Project, TCG Criminala, was launched into the sea on 3 July 2017, and temporary delivery was held on 29 September 2019. The project's first submarine, Piri Reis, is scheduled to be shot into the pool in December 2019, which continues to be equipped by Sırýr Reis. It is also planned to perform the first resource ceremony of the project's 5th submarine, Sejdi Ali Reis. Large RD projects are being carried out by the Machine and Chemical Industry Agency as part of their defence systems. The defence and aeronautics industry grew by more than 8 times in 2002, with an export that reached $8.7 billion or $2.2 billion. That'll keep him growing strong. In the third quarter of 2019, 37.7 per cent rose from the same period last year to about $1.9 billion, and our number of defence industry projects, which were 66 in 2002, is now nearing 700. Mr. President, we have reached the position of the 5th country with the largest network of representations in the world, with 246 foreign representatives, thanks to our entrepreneur and humanitarian foreign policy. In the coming period, we will continue to increase Turkey's reputation abroad and strengthen our relations with different geographys of the world, using the harsh and soft forces we have. This year, we conduct our relations with the Asian-Pacific region, which is a rising geography in global politics and economics under our new Asian initiative. Work continues to be signed as soon as possible by the Economic Partnership Agreement with Japan with the understanding of win-win and update of the Free Trade Agreement with South Korea. The strengthening of corporate cooperation with the Southeast Asian States (ASEAN) is also an important part of our policy again in Asia. Our total trade volume, which was $1.3 billion in 2002 with 10 ASEAN countries, rose to $10 billion today, and we aim to go far beyond that. We also consolidate our common relations with the Central Asian republics based on history and culture. With Uzbekistan's participation this year, a historic step has been taken to ensure the union of the Turkish world under the roof of the Turkish Council. Great progress has also been made with the African continent through reviving our long, historical and cultural relations. In 2008, the African Union, where we established a strategic partnership relationship, will hold the third partnership summit in our country in the first half of 2020. The opening for the Latin American and Caribbean region is also strengthened. Compared to 2002, the number of representatives in the region has increased from 6 to 18 ▪, and our total trade volume has increased from 1.5 billion dollars to about 12 billion dollars. We will continue our concrete work on protecting the rights and interests of citizens and relatives abroad and improving the quality of services offered to them. Mr. President, we have determined our vision in the field of justice as a reliable and accessible justice system. Our work as part of the Judiciary Reform Strategy demonstrates our will in the field of better protection and development of rights and freedoms. Changes in which investigations and cases can be solved in a reasonable time have been implemented, and policies that will facilitate and strengthen our citizens' access to justice will continue to be passed. In this scope, we are making significant changes to further develop alternative conflict solutions that relieve the workload of the judiciary and contribute to social peace and reconciliation. Some 84 percent of the 237,680 cases, which have been held since January 1, 2019, have resulted in compromise. Law school will be one of the areas that will be on our agenda in the future. In order to achieve a stronger justice system, the length of law education, the number of students from law schools, and the curriculum that they've been studying, I hope there will be radical changes, in a positive sense of course. The assistant judge and assistant prosecutor will be one of the major changes made in this area. The strengthening of legal services and defences is also considered a separate discipline. Because it is important for the quality of judicial services and for the better protection of the law of our citizens. The European Court of Human Rights, the Council of Europe and the EU institutions' assessments of the judiciary, I must say, are one by one in this process. Another policy document that we discussed along with the Judicial Reform Strategy is the Human Rights Action Plan. In the future, hopefully, we'll share our new plan of action with the public. Mr. President, our services regarding social services, social welfare, social security and working life have been accelerated in terms of planning, coordination, control and efficiency. The education field, one of the most important areas at the point of her strengthening, has made great progress over the past 17 years. In an effort to prevent violence and ensure the effective protection of victims of violence, necessary measures in co-operation with all parties have been implemented by the National Action Plan for Violence Against Women in 2016-2020, which covers the 3rd National Action Plan for Women in 2016 and 2018-2023, including the Anti-Station Strategy Document and Action Plan for Forced Marriages. Family-based services are given priority without child care, so family integrity is protected and children are not separated from their families. 127,000 children benefit from social and economic support services. The average monthly support is 970 lira per child. The number of foster homes has increased more than 15 stories in the last 17 years. In 2002, the number was 515, and the number of children increased by more than 7,000 as of 2019. Many children's homes and homes have been shut down and turned into homes and children's homes, which are home-based units close to the family's environment. In order to fight child labor more effectively, monitor and monitor the implementation of policies at the local level, a total of 567 personnel in the provinces have been formed to combat child labor units. The institutional capacity has been increased to provide services for all disabled persons whose family cannot be cared for. Like any citizen, it is one of our priorities to allow disabled people to participate in employment. A total of 209,916 citizens are being served, including the relatives of our beloved martyrs and our precious veterans, our disability and relatives. From 2014 to today, more than 26 thousand martyrs have been employed in public by their relatives, veterans and veterans. One relative of the martyrs is granted a loan without interest and a fixed price of up to two hundred and forty months at a fixed price by the Public Housing Authority, limited to one dwelling for veterans to make them their homes. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are allowed to receive free health care for poor citizens with a general health insurance policy that began in 2012. The revenues, which are performance indicators for Social Security, are expected to be 91.5% by the end of 2019. The GSK deficit is estimated to take place at 0.92 per cent at the end of 2019. Law 7143 and employers' bonus debts have been structured to pay their debts. With a single proportional increase, pensions have been increased by 48 per cent to 397 per cent since 2002. A total of 21.4 billion liras were paid to 12 million pensioners at Ramadan and Victim's Holidays in 2019. Under a thousand lira monthly pensions have been raised by raising pensioners' pensions to a thousand liras -- I'll give you a little bit more details about that in a minute -- so there's nothing in here called a pension below $1,000. Following social security reform, at this point today, near the entire population has been taken under the umbrella of general health insurance. Mr. President, our goal in the field of environmental and urbanism is to provide sustainable environments, and to build cities based on horizontal architecture, that live in neighborhood culture, that are resistant to disasters, that sustain our civilization. In our country, we will continue in the coming period, as we do today, where basic urban services, which respect human-based, natural life and historical heritage, are fairly and accessible, to create high quality of life-resistant settlements. About 13 billion dollars have been used for urban transformation projects from 2012 to today. In this context, from 2012 to today, a total of 1,330,000 independent units are covered in risky areas and structures. In 2016, construction of 25,115 dwellings, 21 schools, 16 mosques, 15 parks and 1,670km of infrastructure was completed in our cities damaged by terrorist incidents. The right-of-occupancy families are still being handed over keys to their dwellings and workplaces. Between 2017 and 19, a total of $4.8 billion was transferred into the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget. So far, we've had 7 million 451,000 citizens benefit from the construction peace implementation, and around 24 billion dollars in construction registration fees have been collected. As part of the Zero Waste Project, more than 4 million tonnes have been collected and recycled so far. By 2023, the installation of the zero waste system across the country is intended to be completed. With the implementation of the application fully implemented, an economic gain of $20 billion a year would have provided direct employment for 100,000 citizens. Mr. President, we have implemented the 2023 Industrial and Technology Strategy, which will enable Turkey to jump the age with a vision of national technology, strong industry, to produce high-end domestic and national products. We're continuing our support for planned industrial areas. According to this, 120 organised industrial sites, 127 industrial sites have been completed in the 17 years we left behind. Two million of our citizens are currently employed in organised industrial areas. Qualitative and quantitative development of RD support continues. The 1.562 AR-Ge and the design centre, established in this scope, employ 60,000 RD personnel. As part of TÜBITAK, RD and innovation activities, it continues to support the private sector, universities and researchers. About 4,000 projects of our university and private sector have been supported by over $1 billion. In 2020, we focus our TÜBITAK supports on producing proactive information for qualified information and qualified human resources. So far, over $1 billion has been transferred to technology development areas, which have reached 85. The sales revenue of 5.457 technology-based companies operating here reached $83 billion and export revenue reached $4.3 billion. We're working on a solution to the problems, legislation regulations and administrative improvements that the business world brings up in the Co-ordination Board of Investment Environment. According to this, our country was ranked ranked at the World Bank Doing Business Index 17 last year, up 10 digits this year. The regional venture capital fund will be implemented, with which development agencies will submit funds for primary sectors in their region to the service of the real sector. So far, 71 projects in 11 counties have been supported by the Advocacy Programme. On the other hand, KOSGEB continues to be our biggest supporter. With KOSGEB supports, support of domestic production that will reduce the current deficit is a priority for high-tech technology to be spread through SMEs and to support technological enterprises. COBI funding programmes have also enabled SMEs to access financing throughout the year and produce more added value. With regional, sectoral and business support models, the COBIs are supported and contributed to digitalization. Turkey's Space Agency, a 20-year dream of our country, has been activated. The agency's construction is being continued, while technical projects are being planned. The National Space Programme will be announced in 2020, with proposals for cooperation from many countries on the subject. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, during our powers, we've made global breakthroughs in foreign trade, we've won new export markets, we've reflected technological transformation into the export product spectrum. In 2002, our country received 0.6 per cent of global exports and increased it by 1.5 times by 2018 to 0.9 per cent. The year 2019, despite factors such as slowing down the global economy, trade wars, the uncertainty of structural changes such as Brexit, has been a year of successful performance in foreign trade. According to the General Trade System, our exports increased by 1.8 per cent in the first 11 months of the year to 165.1 billion dollars. At the same time, our imports were recorded at $190.2 billion, with 11.3% less. Thus, as of the first 11 months of 2019, the foreign trade deficit was down by 51.8 per cent, while exports were up to 86.8 per cent. In addition, according to World Trade Organization data, Turkey was ranked seventh in the first 50 countries to make the most exports in the first nine months of the year, considering the rate of exports in Turkey. Contractors have already taken on 9.951 projects in 126 different countries, and the total amount of these projects so far is about $395 billion. According to ENR 2019, our country is ranked second in the world, according to the number of 44 companies in the largest 250 international contractors. Our country is the 7th country to receive the most revenues from international contractors in the world. In 2020, the annual project size was intended to exceed $20 billion. As of October 2019, Turkish EXIMBANK single-handedly provided 53 per cent of export loans provided by the banking sector, offering a total of $40 billion as of January 2019-November. Mr. President, the creation of sustainable transport and communication structures in our country's development, with our transportation and infrastructure investments, also plays an important role. In addition, it is intended to strengthen international transport connections, ensure Turkey's cyber security, provide fiber communication infrastructure and broadband communication nationwide. Between 2003-2019, the land roads were invested in 469 billion liras at the price of 2019. The international highway corridors that pass through our country are about 13,000 kilometers long. In January 2003, the total length of the divided road reached 6,101km, while in November 2019 it reached 27,123km. In 2035, the highway network was targeted to reach 8,448 kilometers. Projects such as the Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir Highway and Osmangazi Bridge, the North Marmara Highway, the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge and Highway, Menemen-Alika-Thandarlı Highway, Ankara-Nigde Highway, are among the main projects to develop the highway network. From the opening of the Eurasia Tunnel to today, it has contributed $2.5 billion to our country. The expansion of high-speed trains and fast train networks through railway activities is intended for the development of local and national railway industry, making the whole line electric and signalled. In 2003-2019, there was an investment of $137.5 billion in the railway industry at the price of 2019. With these investments, as of October 2019, the length of the high-speed train line reached 12,803km, a conventional line length of 1,213km and a total railway line length of 11.590km. Ankara-Sivas High Speed Train, Ankara-Izmir High Speed Train, Bursa-Billecik Fast Train, Ionya-Karaman-Turkish-Adana Speed Train, Adana-Osmaniye-Gaziantep Speed Train Projects, among our ongoing projects. The Baku-Tiflis-Kars line and the first freight train from China to Europe via Marmaray are operating on the 8 routes. The nine domestic transport projects, run by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure in five cities, were built into an internal rail system of 313.7km. The Gebze-City Banliyö Line Recovery Project has been reduced to a hundred and eighty-five minutes from Gebze-City to one hundred and fifteen minutes. With activities in airlines, growing above the world average in aviation, spreading the airport network across the country, domesticating aviation technologies, regional flights are among our goals. After all the stages were completed, the first phase of the first phase of Istanbul Airport, capable of 150-200 million passengers a year, was launched and replaced by this airport, one of the world's most advanced airports. However, Rize-Artvin Airport, Çukurova Airport, Yozgat Airport, Bayburt-Silverhane Airport, Tokat Airport Projects are under construction. In the naval activities, boosting the Turkish ship industry's competitiveness and brand value is intended to be among the top 10 countries the size of the world's sea trade fleet. In 2003, the number of international ports was 152, reaching 181, as of October 2019. And we continue to reap the fruits of our importance to digital transformation. In 2017, our country was ranked the 43rd place in the world on the global cyber security axis, while in 2018 it was ranked the 20th. Mr. President, our tourism sector has been one of our most efficient sectors in the history of our governments, as a result of our investments in the conservation and strengthening of our natural and cultural resources and the service sector. At the strategic sector declared by our President in the field of tourism, we will and will fulfill our responsibility. We are confident that we will achieve our goal of 2023 targets, 75 million tourists and $65 billion in tourism revenues. Hopefully, we'll be over 50 million tourists this year. Also, as Turkey, with our nation's unique culture for thousands of years, we will achieve our rightful place in the world in the art field, which is a reflection of this wonderful wealth. In tourism, in culture and art, Turkey will continue to be a brand that determines its own bar. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been able to participate effectively in every aspect of social life through the process of decision-making and implementation of young people, and in this direction, activities, projects are being carried out. In this context, our youth centers operate with the goal of raising a strong youth who embraces, protects, protects, and develops national values, loves his family, his country, his nation, and is responsible for the community. In 2019, 125 thousand young people took advantage of 38 youth camps as well as youth centers. In 2020, it is intended to double the number of students who will benefit from the camps and thus benefit from the youth camps of 250,000 young people. Under the protocol signed between the Ministry of Youth and Sports and 28 Foundation universities, it has allowed internationally successful athletes to receive 100 per cent scholarships in the event that their achievements are documented by the Ministry and that they win any part of the foundation universities that are signed protocols. In addition, important work is done in areas such as sports installation, sports education, sponsorship, the protection of sports health and international organisations. In addition, in 2020, a total of about 98,000 homes will be launched under the investment programme, with 101 74,400 capacities, 13 23,245 capacities under the preliminary protocol. I've tried to answer a lot of things so far. If you'll excuse me, I'll take a few more minutes of your time and try to answer a few more questions. Maybe things can be different here, I'll go in the context of questions. There was a question among the OECD that had the highest inflation after Argentina? According to the latest OECD data, Turkey has 8.55 years of change in October 2019, while Argentina has a 50.5 per cent rate of change. Turkey's hope for inflation at the end of the year is also 12 or 6 per cent. Again, there was a question of whether the official number of inflation and the actual inflation were compatible. Inflation baskets, weights and explained changes do not reflect a single individual, but the country's average. In 2019, almost 545 000 items from 81 boroughs and 225 districts are compiled monthly for 895 items from around 28,000 workplaces. Inflation figures, as in other countries' examples, are an indicator of the entire country, not belonging to a specific income group -- low, medium or high. In other words, Turkey's figures, as in other countries' inflation figures, are also indicators for the entire country, not belonging to a particular income group. So TIFE numbers can be felt more or less by individuals or households than their own spending and consumption structures; this is valid for all countries, not just for Turkey. Again, the interest is 22 times higher than last year. There was another question, "Is Turkey paying interest on debt instead of investing?" In 2020, interest payments increased by only 18 percent, not 22 times. In 2002, when budgets were interest budgets, they became service budgets during our administration, we explained it over and over again. About $86 of the $100 tax collected in 2002 was spent on interest costs, while in 2020, $17 of each $100 tax revenue was spent on interest costs. In 2002, 43.2 per cent of the budget was earmarked for interest spending, while the budget for interest costs in 2020 was limited to 12.7. Our economy is dependent on imports. Next semester, there was a question about imports, domesticization and nationalization... in the form of imports. And here, again, the multinational technology, the powerful industry -- we've just explained that, in fact, our speakers and the speakers had an explanation for this -- in their vision, we started the Technology Focused Industrial Movement Programme for the production of high-end domestics and national products, in 2023 industrial and Technology Strategy, in 2019, to produce high-velocity products with domestic resources and abilities. The work on this is already going on, the lists have been set. Our efforts to domesticate and nationalize are continuing at all speeds, especially in the intermediaries of export-oriented goods. Hopefully, we'll start seeing our locality rates in our defence industry in other sectors, such as health, IT, transport and energy. There was a question about the level of their minimum pension, about pensioners under $1,000. I'd like to count it one more time: in the period of 2002 December 19 July, the lowest SSC pension of 257 TL was up 642 per cent nominally and up 52 per cent in real value to $1,906 Turkish liras. The lowest BUG-KUR farmer's pension was up from 66 TL to 1,941 per cent nominally, with a real increase of 318 per cent to $1.343. The lowest BUG-KUR tradesmen's pension has increased from 150 TL to 1.050 per cent nominally, to $1.724 per cent in real estate. The minimum pensioner's pension was increased to 2,211 TL (real) by 487 per cent of 376.5 TL, nominally. It has also been arranged that the amount of the head of the file, including additional payment, cannot be less than $1,000 a month. In the current case, it is not possible for pensions to be below 1,000 euros, including additional payments per file, without the right-owning share ratio being applied. By our Home Office, there was something else...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0244par0256	Widows and orphans...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0257	That's what we're talking about here, in case one person dies, loses his life, it's what we call a share of rights. So if you're referring to the sharing of someone's life, the son, daughter, relative, and wife, it's about that person. The person's pension is never less than $1,000 a month, and it can't be. Another question: Is it because there are comments on these suicides that Ali Blusakal killed himself -- Is it because I don't have money for his wife? Isn't there another reason why he couldn't say so? According to the first study conducted by our Ministry of Internal Affairs and local units, Ali Kabadal had no reason to commit suicide as a family problem, to take it, to give it, to commit suicide?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0245par0259	Excessive debt...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0260	It's considered due to a special reason outside of material, and I don't want to express it here because it's special. He is considered a problem with his personal life. Research on the subject continues. I think we should stop trying to put on a political shirt on every suicide with words like hunger, poverty. Again, there was a statement called "No documents are available, even though it was stated that the money had been transferred to the PKK as a reason to dismiss HDP's mayors. Again, after the general elections of the last district administrations, 28 mayors of the PKK/KCK have been suspended on the basis of the authority vested in by the Constitution and municipal Law, including accession, propaganda of an armed terrorist organization, corruption of the state and the integrity of the country, praising the crime and the criminal.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0246par0262	They'll pick you up tomorrow.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0263	Claiming that there is no document to transfer money directly or indirectly to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the face of the fact that funding transfers directly or indirectly to the terrorist organisation show itself in violation of contract legislation, zoning legislation, personnel legislation, is a natural proof of how professional work those who suggest it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0247par0264	You're liars! You're liars!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0236par0265	Again, there was a saying, "Is law being eliminated in order to eliminate unlawful conduct?"
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0248par0266	Put in a document, one!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0249par0267	You're the Vice President!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0250par0268	It's a shame!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0269	Our country is a state of law.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0252par0270	No way!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0271	In any business or action of the state, this principle is observed under the Constitution, under the constitutional guarantee.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0253par0272	You're the ones who committed the greatest crime.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0273	The judiciary is also clear against all actions and procedures of the administration, according to Article 125 of the Constitution. An effective control mechanism has also been envisioned by providing judicial security against the possible illegal practices of the administration. As there is no such thing as the elimination of the law, mechanisms for further effective implementation of the law according to universal principles have been developed and the practice of the rule of law has been expanded over the past 17 years. Being a state of law never means ignoring crime and criminal, but being a state of law doesn't mean ignoring terrorism and terrorist; vice versa, it means fighting crime, crime, terrorism, terrorist with determination. Again, women were ignored in the budget. There was a criticism in the form of a woman. And I'd like to say that in just a few examples here. With the goal of boosting and promoting women's entrepreneurship by COSGEB -- these are the things that I express in concrete -- the additional 20% support is provided to new female entrepreneurs for available support. The Project for Multipurpose Community Centres, which is run by the GAP Administration to increase women's employment and women's entrepreneurship, is also planned to provide $8m in financing for the GAP Administration.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0254par0275	Women die, women get kicked out of politics...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0276	I am pleased to say that the majority of our women are women, as well as those who are trained at the doctorate level, trained in the future professions of the ECHR. In addition, aid for women who have passed away, expenses in women's guesthouses, support for violence prevention and monitoring centers in this framework, the Ministry of Health is just a few of our budgetal practices for women in cancer, early diagnostics, screenings and education centres. Again, criticism of this Tank Palet Factory has been brought up over and over again, despite repeated statements. That the property of the factory is in the state and that only the right to operate is handed over to the BMC, which is co-operation with Qatar and Turkey for a while.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0255par0279	For 25 years...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0280	I'd like to say once again that with the investments to be made, the factory will work more effectively and efficiently.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0256par0281	We're asking how did you hand it over, how did you hand it over?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0257par0282	A quarter of a century is a long time...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0283	The aim was to ensure efficient and efficient use of country resources in defence industry, to use the private sector's speed of business and access to higher technology in order to minimize the current launch capacity in the factory, improve factory efficiency, create new jobs and production opportunities and increase exports.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0256par0284	Couldn't you find $50 million somewhere?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0285	Without bringing any additional burden to our country, this factory will be modernised in accordance with the needs of the age, and will invest at least $50m in areas that will be carried out by this firm and will be determined to develop capacity for 25 years.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0258par0286	Why the Qatar army?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0287	We'll see how we can make a difference in the field of tank production, as in all other areas in the defense industry. There was another review, a question about the July 15th donations and the foundation. The amount of donation that was made during the fundraising period was transferred into the account as of 2/1/2019 as a total of 338 million, 971,731 TL 97 cents from the Agriculture Bank. As part of the implementation of the single treasure account, Turkey's Family of Martyrs and Veterans' Solidarity Foundation has been blocked as a 10m-dollar foundation for the account opened by Ankara Public Banking Office as a capital commitment.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0259par0289	Why isn't the money distributed to the rightful owners? Was the treasure donated?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0290	Under Prime Minister's Office 2016/18, the decision will determine how to assess the donation of 251 martyrs and all of our 2.731 gas as part of a support campaign for the families and veterans of our citizens who were killed during the coup attempt will be determined by the decision of the trustees of Turkey's near relatives and veterans' Solidarity Foundation.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0260par0291	What have you been waiting for three and a half years, Mr. Oktay? Say it. That's the question.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0292	The last speakers -- and one last question -- had criticisms about a university.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0260par0293	Do you have that money in the treasure? Where's the money?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0294	Our martyrs and veterans know we're with them to the end, our veterans and our fallen relatives know very well.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0261par0295	By eating their money... Taking their money...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0296	We don't touch them, we don't touch them, we don't make them.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0262par0298	Then why don't you? Why don't they give it to the rightful owners?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0299	Again, there was criticism from a character about a university, about the development of City University. And that's another thing that's been explained. I'd like to explain the subject once again from here. 1) The move in the Istanbul Kartal Dragos position, which is owned by the General Directorate of TEKEL Enterprises, dated 29/5/2015 of the Privatisation High Council, has been transferred to İstanbul City University during the Prime Ministership of Mr Ahmet Davutoglu. 2) The City University used a loan from the People's Bank to build a campus at Eagle Dragos, putting up mortgages on the land in question. 3) In a lawsuit filed by the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures demanding the annulment of Part 237 of the Privatisation Supreme Council (2015/32) His office has decided to cancel the part of the property of the move on July 4, 2019, on which the property of the move will be transferred to İstanbul City University for free. 4) After the decision, the legal property of the parcel has been transferred to the Treasury. On the other hand, City University's loan application predictions have not been fulfilled over the years, and the university has failed to obtain the income to pay back loans, principal money and interest, and has failed to pay the bank its debts. These debts have reached 417 million. In particular, there is a loan that a university and a university, built on the basis of an illegal property transfer decision, have been able to guarantee this land, and cannot pay it back.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0263par0307	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0308	So the situation is not a political issue as it is alleged, but a legal process and a result. It is very wrong for our academics, our students, to be seen as victims, to be drawn into the political area of this issue, not to be found. Under the leadership of our president, the biggest breakthrough in the history of the Republic has been achieved, and we have supported all of our universities in the most powerful way, and we continue to support them, and there can be no other situation. The activities of our academics and students who serve at the City University will be carried out without interruption in their academic and educational activities. As a result, as a whole legal process continues, it has nothing to do with our president...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0264par0312	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0313	...I leave the matter of the University of City to the discretion of the public, of whom and how it is politicalized. I just, since we're running out of time...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0265par0315	The President has announced it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0316	Again, let me finish my speech with some good news.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0266par0317	Is there news for the people?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0318	I believe that was mentioned by our orators again. Again, according to today's Human Development Report, Turkey rose to the 59th ranking between 189 countries, reaching a value of 0.806, in the Human Development Index of 2018. So what this means is that Turkey, which is at the level of medium human development in the Human Development Index in 2002, has risen to the level of high human development in 2009 and to the highest level of human development as of today. These things don't just happen.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0267par0320	Bravo.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0322	This doesn't happen in a portrait of Turkey that you describe here.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0268par0323	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0251par0324	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these thoughts, I wish our country and our nation once again the best of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law and the 2018 Central Management Computation Law Proposal. I sincerely thank all of our lawmakers and all of our deputies, including the President of the Plan and Budget Commission and members, who have contributed to the creation of our budget in 2020, with their opinions and criticism. Again, for your criticism and your contribution today, Mr. President and all the members, I sincerely thank you, our representatives, and give you my regards.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0269par0328	Thank you. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0270par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, yes, at this time of night, you'll say, "Is it appropriate to do polemics?" But it has to be reported inevitably. Now, what the Vice President says about the trustee appointment is completely unresponsive, fictional, illegal, black propaganda, baseless. Why am I ranking these words over and over again? So I'm just sorting these out so I don't have to say "lie" in a word. Now, there's not a single case about any of our mayors, whether they're old or new, where they're brought up with corruption, corruption, conspiracy into the tender; they're all lies. There's no inspector's report prepared for this, that's a lie. There are no Court reports, they are lies. There's nothing like that about any of our mayors, but...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0271par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0270par0338	You have relieved nine of the trustees you appointed after 2016, you, again, of your own trustees due to corruption, corruption, and misdemeanor spending, or theft, because of your own trustees. The Court has also filed a file report on what you have not been relieved of for illegal spending, corruption. The Court's Chief of Staff spoke of this again in the Plan and Budget Commission. We'll discuss all of this, I'll tell you that. No source of public service has ever been used for another purpose, it's a lie, it's a lie, I'll tell you that. Now, look, four and a half months after March 31st, you started appointing trustees. What source did these mayors use? Those mayors were working to clean up the debt pile you left behind. You're making false claims.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0271par0342	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0270par0343	Now, the candidates accepted by the YSK, there is no ruling against any of them; you are lying. Now, there's a impacting focus that haunts municipalities, there's a mindset of coups, there's a sense that makes the people's will go away, there's election law, there's election justice, there's chest law, there's a sense that makes it clear. Now, that's basically the coup d'état of walking. Now, sir, you say the so-called co-chair. Your advisors are giving you false information, and you're getting up and you're talking about it on the public stand. How is the so - called co-chair? Each one has been chosen, none has been appointed. How were they chosen? Whoever is the first common city councilman, who is ranked in the 1st place, is called the co-chair. They're all chosen people, there's not a single person assigned to them.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0271par0346	Mr. Oluç, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0270par0347	I'm completing it, sir. So many lies have been told, Mr. President, I'm sorry, it's hard to complete, but I'm still going to finish it, because we're going to tell these facts and we're going to talk about it five times a day, and we're never going to give it up. Your goal is clear: to violate the will of the Kurdish people, to ignore the will of the Kurdish people, to take away the election law, to create the appointed regime. These are your targets. We say it's the enemy to run against the Kurdish people, we say it's the enemy who supports them. Here's the proof that was just made on this stand. This is the hostility against the Kurdish people's will. It's a speech built on lies. We certainly don't, and we never will. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0352	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0273par0353	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0355	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, Mr. Oktay, in your speech earlier, you said that the Republican People's Party leader, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, has a matter with the public officials of the People's Party. I can't compare you to Mr. Kilicdaroglu; his place is separate, your place is known to us, but I'll compare it to myself and my friends who are here. The difference between you and us, Mr. Oktay: you answer to the palace, we answer to the people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've never been a congressman in your life. Every congressman who's been here goes to his people, listens to his problems, asks him for votes, but asks for votes to serve him, and he's suffering from his own suffering.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0273par0359	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0360	Mr. Oktay, you're exaggerating how they got the thousand lira here.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0274par0361	Real numbers...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0362	They're taking £2,000. You're saying something like that. I'm asking you now, Mr. Oktay, how much do you charge as a nominal? How much do you charge for real? Do you know how people live off a thousand liras and 2,000 liras?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0274par0363	How much do you get?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0364	It's not like living in a palace, living in a slum; it's not like sitting in a palace looking into your children's eyes when you're hungry, Mr. Oktay. So when you're talking about the poor, the poor, don't look at the palace and talk to the people. Mr. Oktay, you say that the money of the martyrs is in the treasure. You say that 309 million dollars is $338 million. Mr. Oktay, we're asking: the help we've gathered regarding the families of martyrs has never been seen in the world...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0275par0368	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0369	Why wait three and a half years? Why? You're saying 309 million dollars is $338 million. This money belongs to the families of the martyrs. If it belonged to a family of martyrs, it would now be $495 million. So, did you or did you not sit on the welfare money of these martyr families? Did you or did you not sacrifice people's martyr money by keeping them in the treasure? Why don't you answer that, Mr. Oktay? Don't you have a bad conscience? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're not paying off the cops who got bombed to death, Mr. Oktay, to look them in the eye. Is it only the palace that gives you the authority to speak here without any remorse? So, what do you say to everyone, Mr. Oktay?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0275par0373	Let's finish, please, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0374	Mr. Oktay, what you're saying is: hospitals are a rose. If hospitals are a rose, why do lawmakers' phones ring every night at 2:00 a.m.? You don't know because you're not a congressman, Mr. Oktay. Their phones are ringing for ICU, they're trying to keep the three-year-olds from dying, they're trying to keep the 23-year-old girl from bleeding to death on the road. Mr. Oktay, you know, you've been, like, counting a lot of things like this PKK/PYD/whatnot; you're telling the truth, and we're against it, but why did you meet Salih Muslim with the red carpet? Tell me, Mr. Oktay, why did you have him there with the red carpet?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0276par0378	The whole movie's falling off there, falling off the mountain!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0277par0379	Mr. Ozkoch, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0272par0380	I'm completing it. Mr. Oktay, you say that the president should be neutral. Well, where in the world does a president have a conscience to tell a mayor, the mayor of a city like Istanbul, if it doesn't rain for two more weeks, what will you do without water? Don't we have the right to ask that, Mr. Oktay? Mr. Oktay, you're talking about violence. You're not with our women screaming until our women are killed, but you're beating those who condemn women's violence with a police baton, is that your stand? You've been talking for a hundred and sixty minutes, and we're trying to respond in four minutes. You're not supposed to have the authority to speak for a hundred and sixty minutes, because here are the representatives of the nation, and you are the deputy of the court.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0279par0386	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0388	Mr. President, thank you. Now, my friends call it a palace, where you call it a house.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0280par0390	It is not for any nation's servants to enter it. Don't fool anyone!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0391	The place you call "Saray" is the home of the nation.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0280par0392	Who can get in there except for the jokers!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0281par0393	Friends, would you like Mr. Bostanci to speak?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0394	It was not he who sat there who sat there, but it was the people who made him sit there, people.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0280par0396	Believe me, you can't even enter the palace without an appointment!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0397	Now the palace, where you call it, represents the will of the people sitting there. Mr. President and lawmakers, of course, will answer to the nation, and they'll be proud of it. The important thing is to get that account out of the way.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0282par0399	You always give, you always give! Lies, lies, lies, wind of lies!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0283par0400	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0401	We've been there for 17 years because we've paid this bill in full, Mr. Engin, we're there.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0284par0403	Pay for the martyrs' money.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0404	All of your questions are answered, of course, these have been given. There's been a lot of discussion about all this around here.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0284par0405	Just tell me the money of the martyrs, only the money of the martyrs!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0406	Everything you say has been discussed here, in the past, with records.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0284par0407	Only the money of the martyrs!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0408	Dear friends, we've had a lot of talks in the past about what the Deputy Group Chairman of the People's Democratic Party said. I don't intend to prolong this at this time of night. When you look at the past records, all you've said has a response, an answer.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0285par0409	There never was, Mr. Naci, never was.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0410	It seems we're going to re-enter those issues through budget negotiations. We'll be happy to talk, see you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0285par0411	Give it now, give it now! You've been talking and sitting down, as usual.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0278par0412	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0286par0414	Thank you. Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0287par0416	We talked for a hundred and sixty minutes, sir, five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0288par0418	The congressman talked for five minutes!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0289par0419	You've been talking!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0290par0420	You've been talking for 80 minutes!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0291par0421	I spoke for five minutes!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0292par0422	Mr. Ozkoc, this came as a consultation board decision, voted here; you agreed who would talk how much.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0291par0423	Yes, sir, yes. But we didn't see the vote, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0292par0424	Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0293par0426	I listened for twelve hours. I'd like to answer a particular matter that has been directed at me or to our power here. There is no such thing as hostility towards Kurdish people. If you're looking for a friend of the Kurds, you can look here. If you want to look at who is the enemy of the Kurds, who drives them to the mountains, sends them to the mountains, destroys them, destroys their families, their families... go ask the mothers in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0294par0428	Let's ask your baklava trustees.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0293par0429	You can't use an expression that is hostile to us and to me, against the Kurdish people, and I completely reject it. (AK PARTY) In Turkey, no one, in any province or district, has ever made such a distinction, including the Kurdish director, Turkish director, Circik, or such a distinction.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0295par0431	You kill, you kill.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0296par0432	If you'd just listen. You can't stand it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0293par0433	The girl gives, the girl takes. We've had neighbors, too. We've got girls, we've got girls. There's no such thing as hostility.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0295par0434	We're the ones who suffer every day.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0293par0435	None of our statements are lies, they reflect the truth. You go to the courts, you get the truth from there.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0297par0436	Not a single document.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0298par0437	Your trustees died buying gold and silver.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0293par0438	On the other hand, I don't know where you think we are, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0299par0440	We think he's at the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0293par0441	We are God's daily... we answer to the people here today.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0299par0442	You're in the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0293par0443	We answer to people here today. We are with the nation in every province of God every day, and our phones are open 24/7.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0299par0444	You are in the palace every day of God.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0300par0445	You're in the palace, in the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0301par0446	You're cruel, you're cruel!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0302par0447	Then give me your phone number.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0303par0448	The President we answer to is a man of the nation's choosing and of the will of the nation. As a member of the Cabinet, there's nothing as natural as answering to him.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0304par0450	You're in the palace, people didn't choose you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0305par0451	You kill women, you starve children, you expose children to harassment. What else can you do?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0306par0452	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0307par0453	I'd like to rephrase the last sentence about accountability here. Of course, as a member of the cabinet, as the Vice President, we will answer to the President, as well as to his duties in the Constitution, drawn by law.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0308par0455	Is there a Cabinet?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0309par0456	There is no Cabinet, there is no Cabinet. No cabinet, no cabinet.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0310par0457	You're an officer, officer.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0311par0458	But our nation's account continues 24/7.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0309par0459	No cabinet!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0311par0460	Our relatives and our veterans know very well what we do to them, and what we value to them, and how we are with them in every need.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0309par0461	Give them their money, their money! Give them their money!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0312par0462	Why don't you pay them?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0309par0463	Pay them!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0313par0464	You can ask them about us. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0314par0467	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0315par0468	Why don't you hand them out to 251 families?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0316par0469	Give them their money. Give the martyrs their money.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0315par0470	Why don't you give it away? Did you use it somewhere else?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0317par0471	At this hour, that sound...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0318par0472	Who stepped on her foot, who?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0319par0473	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0320par0475	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to make two very short points. First of all: yes, I repeat, very clearly, I repeat, these words, these practices are Kurdish hostility. I'm just saying that. Whoever does it does it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0321par0477	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0320par0478	Whoever does it does it. You're hostile to the Kurdish people, so I don't have to yell.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0322par0479	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0320par0480	Come on, so I don't have to yell. First of all, let's figure this out. Number two: the executive makes its own judgment. The administration has established a judgment, as has its own judgment.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0323par0482	Don't flex!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0320par0483	It also tells us what decisions the judgment will make.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0323par0484	The way to go to court is clear, you may go. You're the Kurdish enemy, you!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0320par0485	Here is a speech made by Mr. Vice President in which phase of my judgment is clearly set upon the judiciary.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0323par0487	You can go to court, there's no problem. He's using the authority of the law. The path of judgment is clear, he may go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0320par0488	We've just heard a vice president speak as if there's a verdict without a verdict. So that is the way the judgment is directed, and that is the way the judgment is established, and that is the judgment that makes those decisions. So when we say that the separation of forces has been eliminated, they've all been merged in the execution, that's what we're talking about. So let me just say that all of these talks actually go down in history as documents and evidence, and I'll just say that again. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0323par0491	There's no need to dilute it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0324par0492	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0325par0494	This is Kurd's enemy. Once again, by underlineing his word very clearly and clearly -- I hope our responses will understand -- because if Mr. Saruhan looks this way, they'll see that there's a lot of Kurdish mebus here, and if he looks the other way, they'll see it there, too. So I believe that the People's Democratic Party and Kurds, whose name is Peoples, are agitatively identifying political language, are not appropriate, and it is of no use to the Kurds.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0326par0495	It doesn't change the fact that you're a Kurdish enemy.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0327par0496	Look at the prisons, look at Edirne.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0325par0497	If the Kurds' fate is shared with the Turks, and the Kurds' feet are worth it, so are the Turks. This geography is that kind of geography. We know it, we know it from the past, we know it from the story of the future. But it's about terror here, that's the problem.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0328par0499	Let's do it, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0325par0500	The enemy of Turks, Kurds, Arabs, and Persians is terror in this geography.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0329par0502	Look at Mother Taybet, Mother Taybet!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0325par0503	In this geography, in Middle Eastern geography, terrorism is the most important thing to provoke people against one another, and it does so with the blood it sheds. Please open your eyes and see this. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0330par0506	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0331par0507	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0330par0508	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0331par0510	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't get a promise to extend the pollen.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0330par0512	It's growing.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0331par0513	I don't want to open anything new. Of course, it's something that needs to be discussed and discussed: in this geography, if our future is a partnership -- which is -- our future is common, powerful, and really all the different identities that live in Turkey, culture, the common future of the native languages -- then these policies need to be abandoned. What we're pointing at is not to make an accusation, but to show what the situation is causing. Otherwise, of course, you have Kurdish deputies in your ranks, and so do the other parties, and so do we. So I'm using this concept to point out that you need to get away from these wrong policies in terms of the solution of the issue, or it's not to make any accusations. If we all think that this is a damaging step towards our common future, then we have to discuss and find solutions together. That's what we're really saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0332par0516	Thank you. Dear friends, on behalf of the second speaker, İstanbul MP Erol Kadırcıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0525	Mr. President, dear Regents, I bid you all good evening. It's pretty late. I'm the last speaker, and I have ten minutes. That, of course, puts a lot on me. I swear to God, I've listened to Mr. Oktay a few times, at least twice I've listened to the Plan and Budget Commission for a long time, and here I've heard a hundred and sixty minutes. Let me put it this way: he paints a painting -- it's a bit of a fairy tale -- there's the best ones, there's the fastest ones, there's the fastest things, there's the biggest ones, there's the horizontals, there's the verticals, there's everything. But, friends, all of this -- I'm sorry -- it's a story, it's a story, it's not the truth, it's the truth...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0334par0527	The success story, the success story.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0528	Well, that's what you think. Sir, if when you go out on the street and people are really unemployed, hungry, unable to bring home bread, if they commit suicide, if there is such a Turkey, then what do you think Fuat Oktay is drawing? Does it mean the truth? I don't think he's doing it at all. Because if you look at the words of Oktay, he's always drawing us a picture of the biggest, the fastest, the widest. With all due respect, there is no such Turkey, Mr. Oktay, there is no Turkey. Now, as you can see, it's come to the Kurdish issue again. See? And I stress that every time I come out here, because this is Turkey's most important problem, but, dear friends, it's not just a problem that can be solved with words, as Mr. Naci Bey puts it, and other friends from time to time. I mean, you're brothers, you're living together. Well, that's all very nice things, of course, but there's a sociological and political problem that comes from history, and it can't be avoided with afflicted words, but from what I've seen here, it's the choice of a lot of our fellow congressman. They're also a terrorist organization. They're shaking their fingers like this.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0335par0531	Say De Hajji! Mr. De!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0532	Yeah, that's not the point! That's not the point, guys, that's not the point!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0336par0533	That's the point! Is the PKK a terrorist organization or not?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0534	You're actually pushing this into a deadlock, and you're hostile to the Kurds, as our Deputy Director of the Group said.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0337par0535	Not at all!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0338par0536	We're not.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0537	You do because if you claim you don't...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0338par0538	Then why do you consider Kurds equal to PKK?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0339par0539	Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0540	Wait a minute... wait a minute... If you're not, then we need to create a more calm, more sociological, historical environment in the frame that I suggested. Otherwise, you can't talk like that. Look, I didn't mean to... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Anyway, I've got five minutes left. Please, let me talk to him.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0340par0544	Do you call the PKK a terrorist organization? Teacher, do you call the PKK a terrorist organization or not?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0545	Now, fellas, look, my speech was pretty much in a frame like this.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0340par0546	Teacher, do you call the PKK a terrorist organization or not?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0547	I call Mr. Oktay's budget a security budget. When we look...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0340par0548	Do you or don't you?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0549	Would you excuse me? When we look...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0341par0551	Answer me!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0333par0552	How can I answer you?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0342par0553	Listen! President, we don't accept!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0343par0555	President, will you tell them? They're talking, tell them!
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0344par0556	Mr. President, say something.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0345par0557	Everyone sees the other side, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0343par0558	Yeah, that's where we see it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0345par0559	Guys, please, let's not interrupt the vet.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0560	Would you excuse me? This budget is a security budget, friends, security budget, and according to my account, about 20 per cent of the 2020 budget is earmarked for domestic and external security spending. This means, again, that as Oktay highlighted correctly and beautifully, we have reserved for security some of the important resources needed for Turkey to emerge from the economic crisis in a world where trade wars have become widespread. Now, I've made a calculation, I'm not going into the details of the account, but I'll tell you this: 2013, 2014, 2015, years of the solution process; 2016, 2017, 2018, in a sense, years of war and coups and so on. Now, if the defence spending between 2013 and 2015 were valid in the later years, friends, we would now have saved 139 billion Turkish dollars, or in reverse, three years of tension politics, coups, Syrian foreign policy, which is what it costs. The annual equivalent -- on a yearly basis -- is 54 billion Turkish dollars. Let me just remind you that the budget of many ministries is not that much; take the Ministry of Justice, take the Ministry of Industry and Technology, not that much, one is 17, one is 8, and something about that. Therefore, friends, this budget is not a budget that we need, it is not a budget that the public needs. Oh, now you're going to say... it's going to be raised and it's going to be, of course, but I've been feeling compelled to say that for a year and a half here: "Oh, there are so many smart men and women in this council, they've been chosen, they've come to such a ridiculous Civil Code -- excuse us, but how do we accept such a ridiculous process of living?" No law has changed a comma of your offer, my friends.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0347par0563	Oh, no, how many have changed.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0564	Get out of here! For God's sake! We've been working for the Plan and Budget Commission for a year and a half.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0348par0565	Sir, what else have you offered us besides violence and... the Plan and Budget Commission? Every time you open your mouth...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0566	Guys, we can't talk like this, I'm telling you my opinion, that's my opinion.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0349par0567	But tell the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0568	So let me point out: let's say this process of governance, or let's say this process of judgment, is not really a process that has any meaning in any way. We're talking here, we're talking, and I'm running out of voice, not that anything's going to happen, so maybe, I don't know, maybe we can influence it a little bit. But I see, my friends tell me, you tell, you tell, but do you find a response? By God, if you must know, one of you came along and said, "Why did you say that, Hodja?" And he didn't say that until now. Friends, in a nutshell, look, I'll tell you this: Turkey's most important issue is the Kurdish issue. The Kurdish matter...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0350par0570	It's a matter of terror.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0351par0571	It's a matter of terror.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0572	Just a minute... excuse me. Terror is a consequence, my friends.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0352par0574	Guys, don't interrupt the vet, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0575	Guys, I'm telling you, if we're going to talk about this on a serious platform, I don't want to do you with these words, if you want to be honest with me, because I'm so sick of these words, and I'm so familiar with them, and that's not happening.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0353par0576	Hodja, tell me once, PKK terrorist organization. Say it.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0577	I'm telling you, terror in this country is a consequence. Look, while I'm speaking again, there was once a terrorist organization called the Moro guerrillas. I once called them Moro guerrillas at the beginning of this year... armed, Muslim guerrillas, demanding Sharia, and fighting with Christian Filipinos. And, friends, 120,000 people died in this war, a battle that lasted sixty, seventy years. And this war was resolved earlier this year, and one of the countries that solved it was Turkey. Turkey became an intermediary there, listened to the parties, had a Turkish ambassador leading the disarmament. So that's what happened. So you're saying terror, terrorism, there was terror. What did you do? You went and talked. You didn't talk to him there? Friends, don't let it go. I don't need that stuff, guys. I mean it, I mean it. You're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong. The government system of this presidency is a freak. I mean, you can't understand how you can accept that.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0354par0580	People's choice, Hajji, it's the system that people prefer.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0581	Look, I'll tell you what: state institutions that need to be neutral have become government institutions and become biased. In Turkey today, all the institutions... let me give you an example, like TRT. Is TRT a neutral state organization, for God's sake, guys? It's not, it's not. You know better than I do. They're not talking about us for a minute, guys. They're not talking about us for a minute. So, friends, what you do is wrong. What you're doing is wrong, but there's no value in me telling you this, and I understand that, and I know that. But I'll tell you this: you're doing it wrong. And as a final statement, this is not the Justice and Development Party, my friends. I'm one of the people who approved that exit at the exit of the Justice and Development Party. I'm one of those people who approves of my writing, my speech, but where you're coming from right now is not where you're going, friends. Now, all of you...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0355par0584	Can you call PKK a terrorist organization? You can't. Teacher, can you call PKK a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0356par0585	Here you go, teacher.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0586	For God's sake, don't say the same thing.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0356par0587	Oh, guys, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0588	Finally, friends...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0357par0589	Sir, why don't you just say it? Teacher, I think you should tell him.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0356par0590	Guys, you don't have to answer to the witness on the stand, please.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0591	If you'll excuse me. Look, I'll tell you what, guys...
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0356par0593	Look, guys, I'm gonna take a break if you'll pass.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0346par0594	Is this your story, what Mr Fuat Oktay said, what he told you? I'm not sure, but I suggest you reconsider, because your story was another story. It was a story of an objection, but now you're a story of a biatin. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-09sit05spe0356par0597	[[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you. Congressmans, the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Offer and the 2018 Central Management Computation Law Proposal have been completed. Now, I'm going to vote for the transfer of 2020 Central Management Budget Law and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal. I submit to your votes that the provisions of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal be passed: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the 2018-Year Central Management Final Accounts Act shall be passed on to you: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Thus, the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Law Proposal were approved. Now I'm going to read the 1st article of proposals in order: 2020-YEAR-OLD CENTER REPLICATION OF BLOOD Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (1,082.021.197,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations have 82,423,174,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) is a total of 7.623,700,000 Turkish liras for regulator and auditory institutions on the table. The grant is granted. 2018-YEAR-OLD MANAGER OF THE CENTER MADDE 1- (1) Adds the 2018 Central Management Budget Law, dated 23/12/2017 and 7066, to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003; A) (I) Turkey's Lira, 751,299,665,000 to public administrations under the general budget of the ruler, B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 88,528,812,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 4,673,105,000 to regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler. The grant is granted. (2) The central administration of 2018, which has been added over the years by the power vested in by the Laws, has been added to Law 5018, as shown in the final account receipts of the Central Administration of 2018; A) (I) The budget costs of public administrations under the general budget are 804,974.4,429,380,54 Turkish liras, B) (II) The budget costs of private budgetary administrations are 120,749,318,165,28 Turkish liras, The budget costs of regulatory and auditory institutions on C) (III) were 4,645,284,260.10 Turkish liras. (3) The central management net budget cost of 2018 is 830,809,400,604.89 Turkish Lira. Members of parliament, under the Constitution's Article 161, the meeting of the central management accounts of 2020 will begin in tomorrow's merger of the central management accounts, which are included in the 1st of the public administration budgets, which have been read as the talks of the 2018-Year Management Budget Proposal and the 2018 Central Executive Law Proposal. Under the decision taken, according to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 10th 2019) to discuss the budget and final accounts of public administration. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
