tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Our esteemed MPs, our Reverend President, have taken their place in the audience box and welcomed our great House. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, according to our agenda, under the decision made in the 68th Union of the General Assembly of April 18, 2019, we begin our talks to celebrate the 99th anniversary of the Grand Assembly of Turkey and to celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and to declare the meaning and significance of the day. Mr. President, we have gathered at this special session to celebrate the 99th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the very precious presidents of our political parties, members of lawmakers, honored guests, and the National Sovereignty and Children's Day. This structure under its roof is not just a building; it is the loud voice of its will to prevail over the occupation under the roof, its struggle for freedom against the invaders, and its insistence to do all this with the nation. Thus, this Parliament is a great monument to sovereignty, order, freedom, national will. This House is holy and holy. Because it has been the center of the national will to fight the nation and the country in its most difficult days, carrying Turkey into power. Under the historical leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our nation, the summation of its heroics until that day, earned its salvation with a resistance that would be the first word of its courage. On this occasion, I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his colleagues and comrades, all members of the First Assembly, and the saints who put their hearts into salvation, with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. Because this Parliament was supreme and holy, on the night of July 15th, the traitorous coup attempt to destroy our nation and our democracy, our nation and the brave members of this coven did not allow that betrayal to pass against the coups that were so low that the national will could bomb the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this occasion, I express our gratitude to Mr. President, who led his wife in a rare way against the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, and to those who were killed that night, and to our veterans, I thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we live in a time when the world is in great transformations, and we are witnessing radical changes. This great transformation and change are both responsible for its historical heritage and its geographical location, and Turkey is placing great tasks on its behalf. As one of the most neighboring countries in the world, Turkey is increasingly involved in what is happening in its region and in the world, which has never been seen in the past, and is insisting on every opportunity, at every opportunity, its claims and will. It is not coincidental that Turkey has a growing event in its region and in the world. Turkey has achieved this power through its zealous nation, its discreet administration, its local and national policies, and most importantly, its long-standing tradition of democracy. The First Assembly, which celebrated the 99th anniversary of its establishment with enthusiasm and led the national struggle with its own zeal, had a structure that contained all the colors of our nation as a wealth. Many names with different origins and identities met in Ankara, when part of the country was occupied. Their common goal was not to live in captivity, but to live independently above this paradise country. This is an important part of the legacy that we inherited from the First Assembly. On this occasion, I find it useful to repeat that Turkey can only move forward with understanding that its differences are a means of enrichment, not an excuse for conflict. Looking at this country from a narrow and narrow point of view is a disease we have suffered in the past. The understanding we inherited from the 1920 spirit compels us to side with Turkey despite our differences, to live as equal citizens under the same flag. As a country with a radical election and the tradition of Parliament, the ground outside civil politics for Turkey is the only way out of democracy, the pursuit of non-communicational rhetoric is to undermine the future of this country. Therefore, those who embrace violence as a way to dominate or weaken their opponents, no matter what level they are at, no matter what purpose they are at, work against this country and against the nation. Mr. President, the MPs are an institution that guides the coming of the difficult days of our great House, Turkey, where we celebrate the 99th anniversary of its establishment. In those days, when the sound of cannons was heard from Polet, or the darkness of the occupation covered every horizon, it was either death or death that raised its name; it is the right of the late Akif. It is the name of my nation who worship the Rights. It is the spirit of the Gazi Assembly, which has given us time and time and time again to cheer on the march of Peace. And that spirit, which brings us together now, is our greatest honor. That is why Turkey is a great country, and our nation is one of the most devout nations on earth. Turkey knows where it comes from and where it's going to go. As a community that rises and regulates all of history's complex and depressing turns, our nation today faces all kinds of injustices and persecutions in the ranks of human values. Representatives of our beloved nation, who have the duty to stand in the midst of human values, to stand in the way of virtue and to oppose injustice, have the same attitude in this great assembly. The best example of this is that in the face of the massacre in New Zealand on March 15th, all of our parties in parliament signed a joint statement. I want to thank all of our party groups for their attitude. By the way, I must point out that today, in the West, a diseased hatred of Islam, Muslims, and foreigners is on the rise. This dangerous climb has reached a level that the international community and, in particular, Western governments and decisionmakers need to take seriously. Moreover, we regret that the anti-Islamicism has gradually evolved into Turkey's hostility. Some Western governments, regardless of seeing how much danger this hostility towards the Islamic world and Turkey is, are sometimes incompatible with friendship with Turkey. This should be reviewed by the attitude stemming from failure to calculate the unique weight of Turkey, which is condemned to failure, fair and friendly, and quickly adopt a relationship style based on mutual respect and interest. The lack of understanding the spirit and importance of this country stems from Turkey's desire to be forced into imposed policies by ignoring the power that Turkey has achieved today, even under the most difficult circumstances, and it is a big mistake. The support of terrorism and terrorist auction structures, especially as part of the sanctions against Turkey, is not only successful, but calls Turkey's righteous anger. Turkey is not like countries whose maps are drawn with a ruler, whose constitutions are algebraic, their administrators are specially trained, rootless and aimless, nonprofit. Therefore, the only way to have a healthy and productive relationship with Turkey is by understanding the sensitivities of this country and our nation, and by developing a sincere approach. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, today is not only the Day of the National Sovereignty, but also the feast of our children. We must always place our future children in the most vital part of our lives, of our plans for the future. A nation that doesn't care about their children and their young is on the brink of extinction. So we have to bring up our children and our young ones in our national and spiritual values, who stand on their own feet, who have the will and freedom love, the equipment and qualities of the age. We need to update our efforts toward our children based on the new results of modern life and digital transformations. There is also an increase in juvenile guilt and crimes targeting children. In these cases, all institutions and organisations, especially the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should do more effective work, especially in crimes against children. Crimes against children must be committed hard, uncompromising and fast, because children are the future and the trusts of God. Mr. President, lawmakers, if we are a free nation in this country today and a country under this flag, a strong state in a regional and global sense, we owe it to those who have worked hard for our sovereign, free and holy nation. On this occasion, again on the 99th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I thank God for every son of our country, nation, flag and state, who has died in the name of the veteran, and who was last in the face of the first Parliament, leader of the national struggle, and every son of our republic's Bani Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and every member of the First Assembly, who had served in the fight for salvation. With these thoughts, I celebrate our nation's National Sovereignty and Children's Day; I salute you all with my heart's desire that every year, our democracy's roots, our nation's prosperity and well-being, our state's power again, our great Turkish cause's triumph. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Members of parliament, according to the decision, I will make a promise to the leaders of the political party group represented in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for ten minutes, and to one member of the political party representatives who do not have a group in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that I will not exceed three minutes each. I'd like to make a brief statement before we start, without making him read the line. Dear friends, last Sunday in the District of Akkuzulu, CHP President Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, MP of Parliament, Mr. Levent Gök, and some of our fellow MPs, there has been a violent attack against him, and I condemn this attack. Trying to achieve political results through violence is an unacceptable attitude to legitimize, or support violence, and it does not suit Turkey. Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, Mr. Levent Gök....and our fellow MPs....I wish you well. It's our greatest wish that such incidents never happen again. [[AK PARTY, CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Mr. Ozkoc had a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0002par0040	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I congratulate you all on the name of our group of April 23rd Day, which Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our Republic, gave to our children. In attacks on our national unity and unity, in accordance with the tradition of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, our group presidents and groups take a statement of regret and express it as an expression of regret over such counter-attacks that have broken our unity. In our speech at your office, I have made a promise that our friends will express themselves there for ten minutes, and that you will promise me on behalf of our group that our President himself will give this speech. On April 21, 2019, a lynching attempt was made on our president at the funeral of the martyr he attended at the Stickuk. It's called lynching, we condemn it. We have images and witness statements that reveal this fact in all its nakedness. Today, politics is the day to be asked about the account of the Second. If the call is being made, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu is the most conscientious, cold-blooded, peace-and-sistered leader Turkish politics has ever seen. If the country needs unity and unity, it is necessary to share in the greatest pain. Our martyr is not for a party, but for a house, but for our country, our child, our child. If we can't be partners in the suffering of a martyr, we can't be together at any point as a nation. That's how we look at martyr funerals. The martyr is our martyr, the martyr of all of us, and we will be with every family who embraces their child with their flag. We invite those who try to link this lynching with their families, a social response, to blame, conscience, and common sense. We'll follow through the legal process of the lynching initiative. I'd like to thank you all for paying our respects to all the lawmakers who have shown a close interest in us in this matter in the House.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0003par0046	Thank you. Dear friends, I read the order: Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Chairman of the Justice and Development Party Assembly Group, Chairman of the Republican People's Party, Chairman of the People's Party, Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu, Co-Chair of Peoples' Democratic Party and Parliament Group Chairman of Parliament, Mr. Pervin Buldan, Chairman of the National Movement Party, Chairman of Parliament and Chairman of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament, Minister of Manisa Deputy Party, Mr. Erkan Akçay, Chairman of the Assembly Party of the Republican People's Party, Edirne MP Mr. Orhan Çakır. The first statement is from Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, chairman of the Justice and Development Party Parliamentary Group, Ankara MP Mehmet Naci. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0004par0054	Mr. President, Mr. President, we're here for the 99th opening anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our goal is to commemorate the day when the foundations of the republic are laid, to draw conclusions today and tomorrow. When parliament opened, empire lands were occupied, the capital city of Istanbul was occupied on March 16th. The victor states are competing to take part in Ottoman lands. There are no regular armies in Erzurum, except the army, which lacks even 20,000. Defense societies in various provinces are far from joint power. Anatolia is tired and poor, and lost their children on seven fronts until the 15th. Halide Corporal and Russian diplomat Frunze, their testimony is insurmountable. Some elitists tend to be embarrassing handpickers. In these difficult conditions, one year before the opening of parliament, Mustafa Kemal went up to Samsun for a national resistance movement in Anatolia; he began to form a common line with Erzurum and Sivas Congress over the basin, Amassia. The goal is the Parliament, which will lead the national struggle in Ankara, because it will again save the nation's future, the nation's determination and decision. Therefore, we are reminiscently and gratefully reminiscent of the Kuvacimilliya movement, the historic role of Mustafa Kemal, where the foundations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are laid down, the unique sacrifices of their comrades. But not only do we remember historical events, but we must always remember the way he has shown us and the future generations. At the very beginning of the historic heritage that we inherited from that Friday, when the assembly opened, there is no doubt that the future of the nation will again save the nation's determination and decision. Does this mean that no matter what outfit you wear, I would be politically beneficial to such bearers? Without even thinking about it. It is the inevitable historical responsibility of every breathing person in the atmosphere of this Assembly to defend the basis of mutual respect and interest when it is established, including the great forces. The end of national policies, followed by our common destiny and future, will surely come to prosperity and prosperity. It is the honor of the spirit of Kuvasimilliye and of this Assembly, which has been opened on 23 April, that it is not the competition of domestic politics that corresponds to a variety of challenges that have been challenged on this road. This nation has a spirit, loyalty, and a sense of solidarity that makes impossible in the most difficult conditions of poverty and absence possible. He showed it yesterday, and today those people's grandchildren are on the same line. This nation is the children of an empire, a world power, even though it loses its glow. The historical heritage behind them is an opportunity, not a burden. They will certainly extend that historical line to the future in the most realistic, decisive way. Ninety-nine years ago, in our House, there were hearts, fez, and turbans. They've come together in a spirit of common solidarity, over the differences that all those symbols imply, and they've done all sorts of discussions and discussions in the direction of the people's salvation and resuscitation. Our legacy is to make political competition the same way, but to keep Turkey's common destiny and future a higher value than any debate. Sensitivity and politics for common destiny and future are registered in the institutions of this country. That's why it takes a careful and attentive language to the basic institutions. As one of these institutions, Congress is the place of the nation's will. Of course, it is possible to criticize parliament's decisions in various negotiations, but it is unacceptable to describe some of its decisions in order to restore its institutional reputation. Let it not be forgotten that the word of the House is the final promise of the nation. The criticism of his decision, which is non-democracy, is directed directly to our nation, against its decisions and preferences. Isn't it our common respect for Congress that brought us together today with a special session? Isn't that the result of us seeing this place as a place of fate beyond critical language? Isn't that why we're here in the 99th year, just because we want to express it one more time? On the other hand, in republics and democracies, the rule is that the people choose and call the rulers back. Not all elected authorities are property to anyone, and that's what happens in all elections. There are, of course, rules of objection to election outcomes within the scope of the law, and no one can be blamed for using them. There is no doubt that there is no golden vote in the law of winning the election, even with 1 vote; all votes are equal, and the rule is recorded in the morality of maintaining each and every right to play. While all authorities are open to changing hands with the election, it is in itself a contradiction to conduct political competition debates with the concepts of "potitarianism" and "totalitarianism." Elections don't matter in dictatorships, we do. In dictatorships, authorities can't change hands, they can change ours. In dictatorships, choice for show doesn't need law, we need legal ways for everyone. Dictatories have no opposition or opposition to their eminence, and we've probably got everyone to confirm that there's no majesty, and there's no opposition to the inevitable consequences. In dictatorships, opposition does not have a view of power, we will always have a vision and a road map of opposition. Turkey changed the system with a referendum on April 16th. Now, there is the presidential government system. This system is socially integrated in terms of the ability of different segments to provide for business units. It's a very important function, given the politics of the global ghost in Middle Eastern geography that stimulates social fault lines. The legitimacy of power is tied to a greater social approval. The separation of law and execution in theory, its practical association with the new system, has been subject to a clearer, more realistic separation. This Parliament is the sole source of law; the quality that represents the nerve endings of society allows it to perform this task at its highest level. Each new system is subject to everyone's cooperation, opinions, and criticism in the process. It is important to make positive contributions to a line that will make our republic and democracy wings instead of a non-practice rejection, which will increase the power of every democratic institution, including parliament. The president is a symbol of the unity and the integrity of the nation. Today Mr. Erdogan is President, and tomorrow other sons of this country will come to this post. Because of the system's change, its political nature does not mean that for all of us, an extravagant language can be used against the shared authority. During the process, the proper language and attitudes of some of the opposition political personalities towards the presidential institution have, of course, created a general satisfaction in my view of what they saw in the same way. On the night of the Berat, the death of our four children by terrorists has upset us in the nation. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and my condolences on our nation. The incident at our martyr's funeral at the stick is never acceptable. Mr. General President and CHP representatives, I'd like to ask you once again to get past it. It is also remarkable that this event took place in a political atmosphere where our President called for normalisation of the political climate in his words of the alliance with Turkey and to cool the angry iron. Turkey needs to overcome all kinds of tensions in the line of mind and responsibility, statements in this direction. On the other hand, instead of social polarization, the way to embrace institutions is to keep them on the common value line, to extend the arms of the political language. We've always benefited from the common mind of this country.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0005par0065	Mr. President, come in.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0004par0066	It is important that all criticisms and proposals are free from provocation, accusations, and accusations, and that the whole community responds to anger rather than address it. Dear friends, our claim, our politics, our main issue is to witness the age with the conscience of our society. Turkey's rising act and voice against human dramas, injustices, injustices on a global scale is an honor to all of us. One hand in Europe, the other hand in Asia, the face of our country is facing everyone, and our backs are facing no one. Turkey is modernizing, urbanizing, making more contact with the world. The course of our journey is certainly the modern world, and it is a nationalism that takes into account the universal values that we join in our esteemed acquish. We always remember that we are like the compass of authority. We are concerned about developments such as global hostility, Islamophobia, and church attacks in Sri Lanka, on a global scale, including European-based. While the world's dominant central policies are trying to gain a share of the popularity of hostility, we are more concerned, but the dignified human attitude after the massacre in Australia gives us hope. Our place is the purest of humanity, justice and justice on a global scale. I wish this country's historic political journey to our beloved nation, Mr. President, to the esteemed presidents of all the parties that constitute our House, to the members of parliament, to the benefit of its political journey. Of course, the perpetrators of this wish, along with their own responsibilities, are all of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0006par0073	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Now, the chairman of the Republican People's Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroglu. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0007par0077	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our esteemed citizens and our future, our dear children with hope, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, celebrate your National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd, and wish this beautiful day to be crowned with the glow of spring days, to give our country the good news of light, peace and justice. Dear children and valued lawmakers, we are in the 100th year of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. For the next four years, we will be celebrating the 100th year, including the founding of the Republic of Turkey. For example, in next year's 2020, rule of law is the nation of the foreign nation. We will celebrate the 100th year of our Veteran Assembly, which is called the Gazi Assembly. In 2021 we will celebrate the 100th year of Sakaryan Victory, which was won by order, not only by the enemy, but also by the people's good fortunes. These celebrations will lead us to the 100th year of the Great Attack and the Battle of the High Command. In 2022, we will celebrate the 100th year of the successful Battle of Salvation. And in the end, in 2023, the 100th year of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. This next four years is a period of celebration. The next four years, along with this year, are a new era of cleansing with the participation of all our citizens, a period of confrontation with the facts, of joining the foundation of this beautiful country, and of reinventing the philosophy that will solve the problems of our country, Turkey, today. We can sum up this philosophy in three words: right, law and justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, you know that the planning and continuation of our Liberation War is based on the Anatolian and Rumeli Defense-i Law Society, which is based on the law. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk speaks at Parliament on 24 April 1920, a day after the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the defense of the rights of the rights of the Turkish nation does not simply mean defending the rights of the Turkish nation against the occupational forces; the defence of the rights of each citizen represents a sense of governance because sovereignty belongs to an unconditional nation. The only right way for Mustafa Kemal is to open a national Assembly, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which will rule the national will. Therefore, without hesitation, we can say that the basis of the Republic of Turkey is a spirit that aims to protect the rights and laws of each citizen. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, the only Parliament in the world with the title of "Gazi Parliament" because of its leadership of the national struggle, have been meticulous about its powers as the responsibility that history has imposed on it from its very first day. In this context, all I have to say is: The Constitution of 1924 is discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and a motion is made to the presidency. The issue of the motion is this: Parliament can decide whether to renew the elections on its own, and the President can decide to vote on the basis of the government's assessment, provided he gives its motive to parliament and to the nation. So, with the motion, the Commander-in-Chief of the Liberation War victory, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is asked to be given a dissolution of the Assembly. Mahmoud Esat Bey - Mahhmut Aszat Bozkurt -- a young MP -- takes the stand and directly refers to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (a member of the United States). The rule is the nation's unconditionality. We say, "The power of such a large force can then be annulled by the President." We don't think that's true. It means it clearly. Şükrü Saracoglu puts himself on the stand in the same way that history, law, revolution clearly shows us that nothing can be reversed from the rights gathered in the person of the National Assembly today. The motion is voted and Turkey's Grand National Assembly rejects the authority to annul the President's House. Both Mahmoud Assat Bozkurt and Şükrü Saracoğlu refer directly to the people. We have to underline that fact once again. Dear lawmakers, under no circumstances have the principle of dissolution of forces in order to prevent the use of sovereignty from being left to anyone, the group or the class. The main backbone of all democracies is the principle of separation of forces. So legislature, execution and judgment are the essentials of democracy. The separation of forces is also the control of power within democratic rules. For this reason, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has eventually returned to its reality, although several times have been asked to be taken from the nation by military coups and different interventions. However, I regret to inform you that with the final amendment, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has constrained its powers, and the principle of dissolution of forces, which is the indispensable rule of modern democracies, has been effectively eliminated. I'd like to present to the honorable members of the Grand National Assembly the harsh truth that we're experiencing today, without going into too much detail. One: the powers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been restricted, the mechanisms of balance and control have been destroyed, an unsupervised executive body, which is power created. Two: The President is a partner in parliament's legislative authority through the decrees. Three: The independence and neutrality of the judiciary are in effect terminated. Four: Instead of representing the party's president, the state and the nation, he has become a representative of a certain political opinion. This has left the presidential office, which should be a balance element, not a balance element. Five: A single person has been given the authority to dissolution of Parliament, and the future of the nation's Assembly has been left to the word that will come out of one person's two lips. Six: Parliamentary budgetary rights and authority are in effect. Dear MPs, it is another sad painting that these steps have been taken by Parliament, which demonstrates resistance to the July 15th traitorous coup attempt against the Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I am sorry to say again that the picture that came out today is that with the final constitutional amendments, there is no controlled, accountable power; the judiciary is not independent; the authority to oversee the executive body of parliament is largely removed from you. In democracies, it's the basic rule to answer to the public. When you hand over law, judgment, and executive power to one person, the rule of law will vanish, and the law of the superior will prevail. So the sovereignty is left to one person, one group, or one class. Eight years ago, on this bench, on a 23 April speech, I said: The date of the democratisation of the Republic of Turkey is the date of defending and expanding its powers. Even today, those who covet the powers of this great House should never forget this matter. Dear lawmakers, we all want to build a modern, democratic rule of law.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0008par0096	Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0007par0097	The way to do that is by discussing a constitution that he can call "conciliation culture" when we all get the brochure that's been cleared of coup law. When we do, we'll leave our children with a high democratic standards, a habitable Turkey. Not just for our children, but for the history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and for the responsibility of history itself. I salute all of you with the wish of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to carry out this historic mission.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0008par0100	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. Now, it belongs to Mr. Pervin Buldan, MP of İstanbul, the Co-Chair of Peoples' Democratic Party and Chairman of Parliament Group. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0009par0104	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today the 99th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hereby salute you and all our citizens who are watching us on the screens. I salute and cherish the thousands of friends, including my beloved Selahattin Demirtaş, Dear Figen Yükseldağ, İdris Baluken, Sırrı Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, Selma River, Sebahat Tuncel, and Dear Gültan Kışananak, whose name I cannot name from here. I salute our beloved Leyla Güven, a member of this Parliament, who has been on hunger strike for a hundred and sixty-seven days to end the injustices in our country, with respect and love. Unfortunately, this April 23rd is also a process in which the people's will, which should be represented in parliament, is held in prisons, and the gas for the people's will, is blocked by democratic representation. However, when the Parliament was founded on April 23, 1920, it was based on pluralism, particularly on a principle of decentralisation in the 21st Constitution. Sadly, along with the 24 Constitutions, this pluralism foundation was abandoned and replaced by a monotheistic, authoritarian system, leaving a hundred years of suffering, poverty, backwardness, injustice, and inequality; while the nation was being sworn to the founding ideology of the state, its values were increasingly removed. These values were wasted on discrimination and rejection policies by official ideology. Along with the authoritarian system of rejection of differences, the government took over the sovereignty that should belong to the people, and the people's will was constantly pushed back into the background. The demands of democratic representation and democratisation of the republic, which each identity and color finds itself in, have been constantly blocked by coups and pressures. In this system, pluralism is closed on the basis of Kurds, Turks, Alevis, Sunnis, Armenians, Serbians, Arabs, Lazces, women, young people, workers do not feel secure about their future, they cannot look forward to their future with hope. If justice collapses, the country collapses. The power without justice is cruel. That's what we're dealing with today. We live in a country where justice applies only to those who are able and injustice falls to the share of the oppressed. An educator mother, Ayþe Teacher, was put in prison with her baby on April 23. Is that justice? If the other hand is trying to hide the truth of Rabia Naz. What justice can we talk about? What justice can we speak of when those who killed 34 people in the Soma massacre were released, and those who killed Berkini in the Gezi, Kemal Kurkut (who shot Kemal Kurkut) in Diyarbakır last week were among us, according to the eye of Diyarbakır. Instead of women and children exposed to sexual abuse, will the male judge side with the abuser give out justice? Mr. President, at the same time in Gebze, the mothers in the white tubed, seeking justice in Kızıltepe, were attacked by official officials who had not had their way with humanity, were pushed and dragged to the ground. In Diyarbakır, our MPs were attacked by police, and representatives of the public were tortured in the street. If a hundred-year-old system is dragging mothers to the ground, then we're at the end of the line, where humanity is drifting on the ground. A planned lynch attack on Mr. Kilicdaroglu was launched, a new Madımak trial was conducted. The attitude of the official mouths trying to legitimize this dark attack as if it were a normal protest shows the point of illegality. We wish Mr. Kilicdaroglu and Mr. Levent Gök. I want to ask: how can a country be brought to this state? For the sake of power, those who sow hatred and evil among the people, who declare the non-self-terrorists, are leading this country into a very dangerous place. All must be careful and vigilant against this trap that tries to bring the people face to face. Mr. President, the country has never been so polarized. The public made it very clear to the chest during the March 31st election that he was suffering from it. The society has said enough to both injustice and poverty and willpower, and has opened the way for a new era for its future. The people said this order would change. He said, "We will rule our cities with democracy, as well as our differences, against the rigid centrifugalism of Ankara. " The message of the people is clear and clear. Those who have not received this message have continued to stretch the country and society for 23 days to change the election results, rather than respect the will from the chest. This will not win the country or democracy. There is irregularity in Istanbul. I want to ask those who say: Istanbul has a will, not corruption. The real irregularity was done in the area. Why do you keep quiet about this? We're really having trouble understanding. Voters were written in Bitlis, Şırnak, Siirt, Hakkari, and many other places in stables, empty buildings, parliamentary buildings. Tens of thousands of security guards have been moved as voters to change the election results in these cities. In Şırnak, 4,000 soldiers were cut off from the people's will by the police vote. The next day, the tanks celebrated victory on the streets of Şırnak. Democracy was sadly crushed under the palettes of those tanks. Those who claimed to have fought the coup declared election victory by holding their backs against the tanks in Şırnak. History has seen that, too. Diyarbakır Bağlar, Van Tushba, Çaldıran, Edremit, Erzurum Tekman and Kars Dağpınar Mayors were defeated by the YSK coup. When the mayor accepts the nomination of our candidates and wins, it is an ambush against the public. The YSK has surrendered itself to those who don't deserve the municipalities we've earned by putting ourselves in the place of the people. This theft, this shamelessness, history, and our people will never forget it. We will never give up on this theft of will. On the legal ground, our initiatives will continue, including international law. Our mayors are legitimate mayors of our people who have been displaced, and those who sit in that chair without merit are not legitimate in the eyes of our people. I'd like to ask Parliament: Why has sovereignty been taken over by the mayors of the people's elected mayors? Who has the sovereignty? This needs to be asked and questioned. The whole world has seen what the trustees who stole the people's will have done. The trustee of Diyarbakır, with the public's money, has built himself a grand palace in the city hall. On one hand, there are those who build themselves a hall of glory, and on the other hand, the people who are condemned to queues, unemployment, and poverty. On the one hand, those who use their resources as their father's money have a gaudy wedding, and on the other, airport workers who are forced to live with bedbugs, if you eat three meals of bagels a day, your minimum wage will be in your pocket. There are poor people who are being mocked at. And that is the truth, which is hidden behind the saying of beka. Diyarbakır is the palace bed of the trustee. Ankara is the seat of power. In Istanbul, Rantçı is the Rant beka of the order that wants to change the results. On March 31st, the people called it no. Those who don't get the message of change, those who try to break the outcome will surely be overcome. That's very clear. The people have demonstrated the power to change. Courage and hope have increased. He's shown that fear policy is ineffective. The public has opened the way for democracy. No one will be able to reverse it.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0010par0115	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0009par0116	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been on hunger strike for a hundred and sixty-seven days, our beloved Leyla MP, who is a member of this Parliament, the public's objection to unlawfulness and injustice in the chest. Layla is on a hunger strike, saying, "Let the injustices end, let democracy and peace be opened." At the end of the century, if a woman and hundreds of people in this country have invested their body in hunger for basic rights and freedoms, if our only interest is body, hunger, then this state must question the hundred-year-old mind, the hundred-year practice, and its final destination. There is no place in the world of our age and in the conscience of our people, no legitimacy. These mistakes need to be returned, faced, and returned to the line of law. Once again, we urge Parliament and power to take the necessary legal, democratic steps to hear the voice of our Leyla Regent, whose life is now at a critical point, or tomorrow may be too late. Dear lawmakers, on this April 23rd, unfortunately, we cannot discuss a holiday that children can celebrate. Children who are thrown into prisons, who are subjected to violence and sexual abuse, who are working in the streets, fields, who are not trained in their native language, are the bleeding wound of this country. It is a shame that parliament did not create an environment that guarantees children's right to life and all rights to education in the main language. It is a historical responsibility to the children to step forward in the matter of politics. I'm calling from here: let's set up a child's rights permanent commission in Congress and start the legal process for the establishment of the child's rights ministry as a second step. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0011par0121	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0009par0122	Finally, I'd like to call on Mr. President and all political parties: our country needs urgent democracy, immediate peace, immediate justice, immediate freedom. Public, not polarization, solidarity and unity; not discrimination, equality; love, not hatred; freedom; freedom, not exploitation; justice, justice, not war, wants peace, wants normalisation. With the Kurdish problem, the problem of religion, peace, democracy, justice, constitutional security of differences, a peaceful foreign policy, we can only get out of the crisis, there is no other way out. Our differences that will never be singled out are our greatest wealth and strength. I would like to end my words with the words of my beloved Yasar Kemal. " If there is always the same flower in a garden, that garden will not be beautiful. It's nice because you, me, she's got this garden. Don't pluck different flowers, keep their colors and scents. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0012par0126	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0013par0128	Mr. President, I know we're meeting on a special agenda. We don't agree with a lot of opinions and assessments from the President General's speech here, but I'm not going to discuss it here. We have answers in various places, and I've been promised to record them. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0012par0130	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, deputy chairman of the Manisa Group, instead of Osmaniye MP Bahçeli, chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0014par0133	Mr. President, we are here to honor the 99th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this blessed day, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I salute our beloved nation and your honorable delegation. For centuries, we have lived in glory, in prosperity, in strength, and in peace; and we have built ephemeral civilizations, and we have accomplished great and beautiful things. But in the last two centuries, it's also a fact that we've suffered many disasters, many disasters, many lost homes, and many other threats. When the pages of history are turned from the 19th century to the 20th century, we feel a pain, an irrefutable sadness; the state that retreats in the face of enemies who attack together, the fallen castle signs, the lost land, the massacres that we have been exposed to, and the migrations that last over a hundred years. A hundred years ago, our country was occupied by Britain, France, Italy and Greece; our armies were disbanded, their weapons were taken away; imperial states shared their homeland like a hyena. During the long years of war, our population melted, our nation became poor and weary, and our country was devastated, and our economy collapsed. The Turkish nation wanted to drown in its own homeland. While the country was invaded in this dire environment, the government's efforts to undermine its salvation activities were being undermined from within. There have been riots against Kuvaimimilli, sent to Kuvayiinzibatiya, which the invaders had encouraged against Kuvaimilli. A group of corrupt collaborators, who have taken refuge in the mercy and cooperation of the invaders, have been able to hope that some Babial bureaucrats will be able to achieve peace and protection by bowing to the muslim. Under these heavy conditions, Hatay Fourways was the first to be fired at by Sergeant Mehmet Kara, Hasan Tahsin in İzmir, Ali Cetinkaya in Ayvalılık, Karşte Kuvaimilliye platoons. On 22 June, the declaration of determination and decision of the nation will again save the independence of the nation in Amasya. On 23 July, in Erzurum Congress, the country is one nation within the national borders, and cannot be broken. The cry was announced to the world. In Balıkesir, in Nazilli, in Alaşehir, with the conventions gathered in Alaşehir, Kuvaimillii became a regular army of sovereignty, and the fronts were established. The delegation was organized for national domination. The Sivas Congress decided that the manda and protection would not be accepted, that the national will would be judged in all the land. And the Grand National Assembly of Turkey opened ninety-nine years ago with the prayers and will of the nation-loving heroes from all over the country. On April 23, 1920, under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Grand National Assembly announced to the world that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. In the humble building of Ulus, in the wooden rows brought from the schools, under the well - gas lamps, under the paper shortages, they kept the land's fate in the sound of cannons from Poland, writing on paper paper bags. This great Parliament is the Veteran Assembly, which rules our War of Istliklal. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a sure example of what it can achieve in the face of attacks on the independence and future of our nation, the understanding of the Turkish nation's self-management. Our beloved nation has brought about glorious victories from the disasters that have overwhelmed the hopes with this House. The Veteran Assembly overcame the absences, conquered the challenges, destroyed the occupation and captivity, and crowned its victory with the republic on October 29, 1923. April 23rd is the Turkish nation's will to live in an independent, national union; the voice of dignity that rejects the calls for ethnicity, language, religion, religion, religion, non-discrimination of full independence and national state; the courage to tear up surrender documents, manda and protection. Honourable MPs, the institutional memory of the Republic of Turkey is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Liberation War was built by this Parliament, where our country's development and development moves were formed under this roof, democracy developed at this time and spread throughout the country. On the night of July 15, 2016, the grand roof has been bombed by traitors who have been subjected to some coup and custody attempts over the past 60 years. It was a low coup attempt to strangle national will, to tear up the country, to turn the country over to the imperialists. We gathered together that night under this roof to hold on to the will of the people, our coven. At the age of 100, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a new vision based on its philosophy. As of today, Turkey has radically rooted and institutionalized multi-party democratic life, despite all the difficult times we've been through, and the national will has been dominated. Turkey adopted the presidential government system under the Constitutional referendum on April 16, 2017, and the governing system was adopted by the June 24, 2018 elections. The 31 March elections were also concluded in this direction, and the system was firmly confirmed and sealed by the great Turkish nation. Now, it's time for this system to be established and run by all of its institutions and rules. It is our duty to contribute. This system is a more conciliatory and complementary system that allows for business units. The government is more and more dependent on the nation's approval. In the new era, the word is greater, often for the people. It is our Parliament's duty to keep the people's word, to control and balance those who fulfill that promise. Politics is a democratic race, it's a competition. This race and competition cannot turn into incompatibility, hostility, and blind combat. Honourable lawmakers, we have a duty to be strong, to be alert, to be united and united against the threats and dangers created by pains, uncertainty, and worrying events in the world and in our region. We can't ignore threats and dangers against our child for any reason. This sensitivity and responsibility must be with members of our House before anything and anyone else, just like the Council of April 23, 1920. Loyalty to national will is a condition of commitment and legitimacy to national sovereignty. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must never be forgotten that it was built on this truth. With these thoughts, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd, and remember with mercy and gratitude all the heroes of the national struggle, our martyrs, all the members of the Veteran Assembly, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0015par0145	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. In turn, Mr. Lütfü, the Deputy Chairman of the Group of Kopeli, replaces Mr. Orhan Çakır, the chairman of the Parliamentary Group, Edirne. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0016par0149	Mr. President, dear MPs, on the 99th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have received a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group, and I salute the great Parliament. I celebrate our nation's National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd, especially our children, which Gazi Mustafa Ataturk, the first President of our Grand Assembly, gave this meaningful day. I, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the honorable members of the First Assembly, who led our Battle of Salvation, remember our beloved martyrs with mercy and gratitude. Mr. President, I condemn this vile attempt on Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, the president of the Republican People's Party who recently attempted lynching in Chubuk. We, along with the entire Turkish nation, are waiting for all perpetrators of this apparent and yet undetectable enterprise to be caught and brought to justice. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, the opening of our Congress today, ninety-nine years ago, have been one of the most important stages of our struggle for salvation. After the defeat of the Ottoman Empire from the First World War, despite the invasion of the country, Mustafa Kemal Pasha emerged in Samsun on May 19, 1919, and the decisions made in the Amasya Tamim and Erzurum and Sivas Congress revealed that the nation would prevail again. In order to fulfill this goal, it has been announced that an extraordinary council of officials will be convened in Ankara, with Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, published on March 19, 1920. The General Assembly has been asked to consider the nation's independence and measures to implement an extraordinary international mandate to meet in Ankara, and to join those who can come to Ankara. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who announced the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 22 April 1920, noted that this Parliament is the highest floor for all civil and military authorities and the entire nation to take orders from now on. Mr. President, on April 23, 1920, our Parliament declared our determination and determination for full independence to the world. In the circumstances of that day, before the republic was declared, parliament was declared the highest authority and authority. During the 909-year period, the Turkish Grand National Assembly became the top roof for the resolution of any country issue. Our nation has always trusted and respected the High Council, where it is represented. The national sovereignty was built under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are writing one of the beautiful words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, on the Assembly's General Assembly today: "The government is a unconditional nation." Sadly, however, this Assembly, which rules our Liberation War, is a parliament that has been largely stripped of its power today. On 16 April 2017, our country went to the polls for a public vote on the Constitutional Amendment, and should we continue with the Parliamentary system, go to the presidential government system? This system has brought many innovations, not the prime minister, but the last Prime Minister of parliament, Mr. Bakili Yıldırım. The parliament's ability to budget has been largely removed, making it a place where the budget prepared by the presidency is being negotiated. In addition, the right to give ministers the geneor for inspection has become historic, as if the control authority of the Assembly has been compromised, and the reason you want to avoid the audit is the question. In addition, the new system does not require governments to have a vote of confidence in Parliament. Above all, the leaders of the country today, our ministers, are preventing you from answering the questions of lawmakers, who are the noble element of the legislature, let alone account to the nation. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are now coming out of the parliament, where there are things called the law, sometimes to solve problems, but they're now being added from bag to soup, and so are they, despite all our objections and warnings. No force, no matter where it claims to have acquired its source, can provide custody over the nation, nor can it itself reveal itself as the source of the custody it is trying to establish. The master of the nation is the nation again. I came out of the box, and I can do whatever I want, and his understanding is incompatible with the concept of national sovereignty. There's nothing that can stop people. The nearest example of this was shown and proved by our great nation on the night of July 15th. Our people have shielded their own bodies against traitors who have all kinds of wars, killing machines, tanks, rifles, heavy-armed air and land vehicles, and have been martyred for their country. Trying to take away the sovereignty of our nation, an unprecedented example of courage in the world, is an example of stupidity and ignorance. The Republic of Turkey was born and developed by its use of the Turkish nation's sovereignty. It is no longer unthinkable to take the kingdom away from the people. Today, the independence of the judiciary is seen to be a major problem in matters such as the Parliament's implementation of legislation and control function, the separation of men. One of the important things is that the principle of justice and the rule of law is not compromised, which is very important for national sovereignty to become a rivet. In addition to this assessment, we experience with the presidential government system that the President has to decide everything, that every problem needs to be resolved by the President. Even the slightest responsibility for the functioning of the state is on the President's shoulders. How can a person be the head of the state, even if he is the head of this kind of responsibility? Is it possible that whoever the president is, by making all the decisions, by doing all the work on his own, he can successfully run the country? More importantly, it may even threaten the health of that person if such responsibility is raised in one person. These issues must be reviewed, a significant portion of responsibilities and powers must be distributed, and we must renegotiate these points under the Parliament's roof. Mr. President, we believe that a high-value lawmakers, as the PARTI Group, will fully represent the national will of a Parliament where lawmakers can conduct effective legislative activities, negotiate law proposals, and use the control authority the nation has given. In addition, we feel that Parliament should be removed from the form of a temple that separates the nation from other words, and that national unity and unity should always be a state of speech, because separatist rhetoric is of no use to any politician in our country. This bad political language is only for those who want to disrupt our unity and unity during our time. We believe that all politicians, statesmen, share our concern. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, April 23rd, are also the first and only holiday given to children of the world. On this meaningful day, we need to ask the question: Can we politicians today leave our children a country where there is no polarization, no politics, no hatred, no hatred for each other? To answer that, please, everyone has to face themselves once more. If we shape our children's horizons with love and honesty, not hatred and hatred, they grow up well; they win, our country wins.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0017par0164	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0016par0165	We need to raise them as individuals they learn to live justly, who question the world. We must leave our children a world, a world of peace and love. That's why, in this period of difficult times, we attribute to Mr. President's words of the Turkish Alliance, which means social understanding. We expect the steps necessary for this to take into effect from a statement will be taken by the President himself. Our national sovereignty, our trust in our past, our legacy to our future. Happy National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23. I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0018par0169	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. In turn, it belongs to the Turkish Labour Party's President and İstanbul MP Mr. Erkan Bashaş. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0019par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the proud people of our country, especially the workers, the workers, who live on their screens, in the name of the Turkish Workers' Party and myself. I'm celebrating the 99th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which represents the united will of the people, against the imperial occupation and the ruling order represented by the collaborative king. As we begin, we condemn the attack against Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the president of the Republican People's Party, whom we consider part of a despicable plan against the entire Parliament's will, and send our wishes to Kılıçdaroğlu and all CHP citizens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On this occasion, our Haqkari MP, who has been on hunger strike for a hundred and sixty-seven days, conveys our deepest feelings of solidarity to Mr. Leyla Güven, and wish all HDP MPs who have been attacked by law enforcement in the fight to announce Leyla Güven's voice. Dear friends, since 1985, special sessions have been held in parliament, where we celebrate the 99th anniversary of the association, and an important feature of these sessions is that all political parties have the right to equal representation, but unfortunately today, parties without a group are limited to three minutes. We have to start by first presenting this situation to the working people of Turkey, and then to all MPs' appreciation, and unfortunately, we will talk about it in a restricted manner. So if our words were not limited, we would want to talk about the importance of independence today (April 23rd), the sovereignty of the people and our children. We would like to explain that the will to meet in the Parliament established on April 23, 1920, was the result of the belief in the creation of a new country with the blood of the poor peoples of Anatolia, with their lives, with the sweat of their foreheads, against the imperial occupation, and we would like to share here that the foundation of the Assembly, for example, was a meaningful stand against the padisha and the rule of the palace, which co-operated with these invaders. If our say had not been limited, we would have expressed from this platform that 2 million children had to work while celebrating Children's Day, 78% had been run off the books. If we had not been interrupted, we would have asked what had happened to Rabia Nazā on this bench on April 23rd, and we would have asked -- according to TİK data -- who is responsible for marrying 482,000 girls by the state's hand in ten years. If our rights were not restricted, we'd say that workers' children have as much right to live freely and happily as the boss's children do. But unfortunately, dear friends, our words are restricted.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0020par0185	Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0019par0186	So think of the independence of the poor who founded the republic, and we can't talk about the values they created with their callous hands being sacrificed to the safes of the rich, the reactionary intentions of the cults and the palace's gaudy. We can't talk about the retreat of our factories, our fields, our forests, our streams. Unfortunately, our time has been limited, and after ninety-nine years, we have to say a few words just to get it to the report. Therefore, we ask that no matter what anyone does, the working people of this country, the oppressed, the oppressed, the poor, will not submit to the tyrants; the people of Turkey, who stood side by side with them on 23 April 1920 against the imperial occupation and the power of the collaborative palace, will again side by side with the same force, the people of Turkey, who will end the palace order that will represent the power of money, the power of the bosses, to their power. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0021par0190	Thank you, Mr. Head. Now, on behalf of the Party of Saadet, Mr. Abdulkadir Karaduman. Here you go, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0022par0194	Mr. President, I salute you all with respect and conversation. Congratulations on the 99th anniversary of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. First of all, we condemn all our hatred for the attack on Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu and Mr Levent Gökyük in Çukuk district of Ankara, and the polarizing, aberrant and anti-enemy speech that lays the ground for this attack. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President-General and Mr. Levent express that this attack is actually aimed at our unity and unity in the person of the Sky, our social peace and peace and the National Assembly, our country and our nation and our Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Today we live together on April 23, 2019, 3 separate holidays: the 99th anniversary of the opening of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the National Festival of Sovereignty and Children's Day. May these 3 holidays be good for our country and our people. The 99th anniversary of the opening of our House. The War of Salvation, the Treaty of Lausanne, the declaration of the republic and three periods: the one-party years, the multiparty years, and the years of the AK PARTY. The Parliamentary system and the rule of law, which contributes a great deal to social peace and to our presence, the presidential government system that never compromises pluralistic democracy, actually, right here, all systems, laws and contracts will be meaningful when they guarantee basic rights and freedoms. From here on out, our primary goal again is to make the word perfect, so to strengthen it. It is not the same for the upright to speak, nor is it for the upright to speak. Fifty-one people deserve 49 people without the sovereignty of the nation. The way to the rule of law, democracy and human rights is to protect the basic rights and freedoms of one against 99 people. Our Parliament, which has claimed these concepts, has never allowed all political authorities throughout history to terrorize and criminalize people who don't think like it, to rule injustice and injustice. Otherwise... our country's future is a bright country, and it'll always be that way.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0023par0204	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0022par0205	On this occasion, in particular, of Rabia Naz, 11 years old Rabia Naz, who was killed in Eynesil district of Giresun, who did not have the Day of Child's Day, who died in the village of Eynesil; who was killed in Cizre and whose lifeless body was hidden in the deep freezer; of the two-and-a-half-month-old Kübra
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0023par0206	Mr. Blackduman, please, just a minute...
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0022par0207	...congratulate once again the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd of our country, our country, and our people, all our children who have been martyred for our country. Have a nice day, everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0024par0211	Thank you, Mr. Blackduman. In turn, it belongs to the Democratic Party's President and Afyonkarahisar MP Gultekin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0025par0215	Mr. President, the most respected General Assembly and my dear nation watching over us on television, first of all, I salute you all. I also congratulate the 99th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our National Sovereignty and Children's Day. At the beginning of my words, I also share with you the opinion that the High Assembly would take a common stand condemning violence and terror in a common sense, in the sense that violence and terrorism would not be tolerated and hesitated, and that the Republican People's Party's President, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who had been attacked a few days ago. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] We understand more and more today the spiritual significance of April 23rd, which has been given to our children, to the future, as it emphasizes the eternity of the establishment of our great nation's great works, the establishment of the great assembly, and the national sovereignty. The great Ataturk must know that this state and this nation no longer has any power, no authority. In this regard, our High Assembly has been a force of integrity for a nation that has managed to reject both the sovereignty and all the differences and to become one. And after the battle of Jihan, the mighty nation waged a holy battle, and was left victorious, because they did not accept any hegemonia or manda or protection from any one. The principle of national sovereignty, declared by Ataturk (Ataturk) and recorded by the 21 Constitution, is not merely an enthusiastic principle, copied from a number of foreign sources, public movements, doctrines. This principle is the product of 200 years of historical experience of the unique development of Turkish society. Sadly, in the 99th year, our great Assembly, who defied the jihad, led the salvation of a state, defeated many enemies and formations, was left powerless, depriving it of its ability to be a symbol of national sovereignty.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0026par0222	Mr. President, just a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0025par0224	The motto of our struggle for salvation is the authority. Our Veteran Assembly, which is the basis of its rule, began to lose its attributes, as if it were being pushed back in history by an understanding of a person and a people who saw the rule of rule with the house. What must not be forgotten is that this House is founded in the effort to establish the sovereignty of the nation. This isn't a place for someone to grow their strength by giving new powers to someone. Our nation has entrusted us with its power of power to preserve its rights and advantages. Our hope is that today, we are grateful to the founders of our great House, which we are grateful for, to have reached the decision of the founding spirit and the mind, which gives the sovereignty to the nation.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0026par0227	Mr. President, just a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0025par0229	Turkey's Grand National Assembly's most important task is to maintain the reasons for existence, particularly the budget of its self, which is tightly dependent on its spiritual self. The generations dominated by free intellectualism have done great things, and will succeed. The largest example is the state of the Republic of Turkey. National sovereignty is the greatest freedom. On this occasion, the greatest memory we can leave to our children, and the legacy, no doubt, is national sovereignty. Our efforts as libertine democrats are to preserve national sovereignty, to bring it to eternity through our children. With all these thoughts and emotions, he celebrates the feast of all our children, salutes our great nation, the unconditional and common owner of national domination, all who have worked for this country, all who have worked for it, their blood, their lives, and our martyrs who have entered the dough of the homeland. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... bycallingdemocracy, which perpetuates the national sovereignty of our martyrs with respect and mercy; again, I congratulate the 99th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and salute the entire Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0027par0236	Thank you, Mr. Easy. In turn, it belongs to the leader of the Great Union Party and Mr. Mustafa Destici, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0028par0240	Mr. President, I salute you worthy members of our Veterans Congress, our esteemed citizens, who are proud to be a member of his presence, who have won our Liberation War, who founded our republic. I congratulate you on the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd of every member of our nation. On April 23rd, the first President of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey and founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave to our children the light of hope of our future, I remember his comrades, the valued members of our first Assembly, all our martyrs and veterans, with mercy and gratitude and respect. Dear MPs, next year we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The members of the Grand Assembly of the 27th century may carry Turkey into the 100th year of the republic to 2023. I think our nation's greatest expectation of us on this journey is to set an example of democracy, human rights, education, law, security, prosperity, and social justice that the nations of the world look at with envy all over the world. Dear friends, we have important problems. In our geography, where global imperialism changes borders, governances, regimes, populations and demographic structures, serves no purpose other than to seize the resources of the region, and by practices that do not know any values and rules, we embrace the victims and the oppressed peoples and nations beyond our borders, as we struggle to preserve our existence by strengthening our existence. On the one hand, we're exposed to open, veiled sanctions aimed at the country's economy while they're dealing with the terror that's cost us tens of thousands of lives over the decades they've been keeping us in line like a stick. See, tomorrow, the United States Senate and the parliaments of some European countries, especially the Armenian diaspora, or the heads of state, will, without looking at the massacres, genocides of their own history, slandering Turkey with the so-called Armenian genocide, are going to play with our political reputation and try to narrow down our political maneuvering field.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0029par0246	Mr. Destici, please, just a minute...
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0028par0247	But let them not forget that this slander, this mud, does not hold over this noble Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, we have no choice but to join forces. We will either learn to live together as brothers, or we will all perish together like fools. We have no choice but to forget the sentence, to show insufferableness, to hate, to hold hands. We have no choice but to embrace each other, to embrace our country, to embrace our values, to embrace our future. To live in this land, we have no choice but to be strong, to be strong, to be fair. The goal of raising our nation to the level of murky civilization is that the best of people is the one that helps people. There's no way we're gonna make it this way, except together.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0029par0250	Mr. Destici, please, just a minute...
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0028par0251	As we have received from our ancestors, I embrace our beloved children with love and kiss them with love, celebrating their holidays. On this occasion, again, I ask that the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be a blessing to our nation on the 99th anniversary of our nation. Of course, here, a few days ago, at our martyred funeral in the land of the martyrs, I condemn and deny this offensive incident, which, for no reason, could be explained to Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our Parliament Speaker, and his group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two, last night, five police officers were injured in the Syrian Azez area, three of which were heavily injured in the explosion of a trapped explosive device. I pray to them for immediate healing from God. Once again, I cherish our martyrs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I pray to our veterans for an urgent cure from my Lord. I wish our heroic army, our security forces success, success. I say that my Lord will always be your beloved and your help. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-04-23sit01spe0030par0260	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Destici. Members of parliament, talks have been completed to mark the 99th anniversary of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day. On Wednesday (April 24th 2019), it is now 14 o'clock on Wednesday, to discuss audit issues and legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
