tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. Under the programme, we will hold a vote of the first 2 articles of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and talks on the articles of the 4th Amendment, including the 4th Amendment. In the eighth round, I read public administrations with budgets and precise accounts: The presidency, the President of the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of the State Archives, the President of the State Archives, the Ministry of Strategy and Budget, the Ministry of Communication, the Editor-in-Chief of Media, the General Directorate of Public Intelligence and Information, the President of Defence Industry, the Prime Minister. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be pledged to the political party groups and to conduct their opinions in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker and will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question and answer process will be done in ten minutes, in ten minutes, in answer, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. On the eighth tour, I read the names of political parties, executive and individuals: Peoples' Democratic Party, İstanbul MP Garo Paylan, Mersin MP Rıdvan Turan, İstanbul MP Alican Önlü, Ankara MP Erdal Aydemir, Batman MP Murat Sarısaç; Republican People's Party, Ankara MP Tikoğlu, İstanbul MP Şeşıpı, İstanbul MP Şaşı, Şaşılı, Şaşıpı, İstanbul MP Şaşıpı, Şaşıpılı, İstanbul MP İsaşıpıpıpı, Şaşıpıpıpıpıpıpıpılı, Şaşıpıpıpımı, Şaşıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpımımılı, Şeımımımımımıpıpıpıpımımımılı, Şımımıpıpımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılı, Şımımımımımımıpımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılıpımımımımımımımımımılımılılılılılılımımılımımımımımımımımılı, Şımımımımıpımımımımımımımılılılılılılılı, Şımımımımımımımımımımımımımımıpıpıpımımımılı, Şıpılı, Şıpımımımımımımımımımımımılı I'm reading Article 2 of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal: MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 941,944,001.000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 83,626,914,000 Turkish liras, including 12,464,193,000 Turkish dollars, 71,162,721.000 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 7,623,700.000 Turkish liras, totaling 7.488,375,000 Turkish dollars in income in editors and auditory institutions on the table, 135,325,000 Turkish liras, is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table number 5018 (II) is estimated to be $138,350,000 Turkish lira, as shown on the table marked by this Law (F). Now, the first word for the People's Democratic Party Group belongs to Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0002par0060	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We'll discuss the presidential budget. Dear friends, there's an executive in every country, but in those countries, there's a parliament, there's a judiciary, there's the press, there's a civil society. These forces, if they can control and balance each other, are a democratic republic, but if an executive takes all authority to the palace, then that country is not a democratic republic. Look, North Korea is a republic, Iran is a republic, but they're not called democratic republics. We've been fighting a democratic republic for ninety-six years, but unfortunately we've lost the evidence on our way to Dimyat. Look, the President is trying to centralize power. Look, he sent a budget bill here as a result, guys. We met for hundreds of hours at the Plan and Budget Commission, hundreds of hours.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0003par0064	One hundred and ninety-nine hours.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0002par0065	Yeah, the President sent such a conscientious and fair budget that we couldn't even change a comma, guys. Look, I'm afraid we haven't even been able to change a decimal in the budget, so we're that weak, guys. I'm sure the AK PARTY MPs also had some demands from the National Movement Party MPs, but Ferman is your king. They said, "Unfortunately, they haven't changed a comma. Look, the judiciary has become a stick of the palace; the media has become a horn of the palace; civil society does not function. See, all these powers can't balance and control, my friends. But I'm going to talk about something maybe more important today. In democracies, power doesn't gather in the center, friends; power doesn't centralize; power is distributed to the locals. The AK PARTI also suggested that he would give up centralisation, but unfortunately, in that regard, friends returned to old habits, just as we returned to Turkey of 1920, the 30s, the 50s, the 70s, the 90s. Look, dear friends, do you know why power is distributed in democracies to the locals? Because if power becomes central, the impact dynamics will come into effect, just like in Ottomans, just like in other countries where central governance prevails. So we've warned the power on this subject over and over and over again that during that time of violence, power was centralized and power was headed towards the palace, that there were conflict, bombings and provocations, and that this was a coup dynamic, and we've warned from this platform, and we've warned you about the commissions, and you haven't listened to us. Unfortunately, there was a coup with these provocations, which, thankfully, we survived, but immediately after the coup, friends, we were faced with a civil coup dynamic. On November 4, 2016, our MPs, including our Co-Chairs, were arrested and along with him, trustees were appointed to all of our municipalities. Look, my friends, according to the Constitution, mayors can only be temporarily relieved of duty according to a crime due to their duties, but unfortunately, the Constitution has been violated. What'd you say? They sent money to the mountain. Isn't that right, friends? What did the president and ministers say in the media day and night? They've sent money to the mountain. We've been saying for three years: show a $1 document, $1.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0004par0067	What's a paper trail going to the mountain?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0002par0068	As a result, there's a municipal budget, the Home Office inspector's office in our municipalities, friends, has a room, a room. Investigators lie there, they wake up there, they go after every penny, but you've created a perception, even though it's not a one-cent document. What did you say? They sent money to the mountain. You used it in the media, which unfortunately brought our people together in this perception. Dear friends, that's a big lie. I'm calling on the vice president to put in a $1 document or we'll declare him a mufter, my friends. Dear friends, why do we want these municipalities to be strong? Why did we insist on democratic politics? Why are we back in the central management elections and in the local government elections? Because we believe in democracy. We said: "A mistake has been made, our mayors have been imprisoned, we are going to run again. We have entered elections. We have won 63 per cent in Diyarbakır, we have won in Mardin, we have won in Van. We have almost all of our municipalities back from this trustee politics, but friends, unfortunately, the government has already announced that it will insist on this trustee politics in those days. What did he say, Mr. President? Look, here's the news: we'll get the trustees back. They say. If my citizen gives him a chance to take them back, we'll just throw out the trustees again. We didn't want to believe it, but unfortunately, just like in the Istanbul elections, the election results were not respected. Friends, look, on March 31st, we received 63 per cent of the vote, and while we were still shooting our aunts -- everyone stopped at the stables at Diyarbakir -- because we got rid of the trustees -- the same night Mr. President gave a directive. Look, it's written here on the morning of April 1st, that the Diyarbakır Governor's Office has written to remove the beloved Selçuk Mizraklı from his post on the morning of April 1st. He hadn't even taken his club yet, Seljuk Spear. He was sitting at this time last year, Selçuk Mizraklı was our MP, he applied to the Supreme Election Board, he was told there was no obstacle to becoming mayor, he ran, he was elected by 63 per cent of the people of Diyarbakır. But, my friends, when you take justice out of the state, there's only one criminal organization left, and, unfortunately, this building also attacked Selçuk Spearlı and relieved him of duty. Dear friends, a doctor with a Selcuk Spear, a surgeon who touched and healed thousands of people for many years. Friends, like Ahmet Turk, like Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, three of the most peaceful politicians of the Kurdish people were elected mayors, but unfortunately, they were dismissed on the same day as an operation. In the June 24th election, Selçuk was chosen as Spearman, sitting here. He was elected mayor, won 63 per cent, but on April 1st, he was dismissed with an article written on election night. The Constitution is clearly infringed, my friends. What's he saying? You may be relieved of duty for a crime, but I'm afraid the Selçuk Spear had been written before he had even taken his court. Look, guys, what's the Vice President gonna say now? There are investigations about him. He'll say. Let me tell you about those investigations. You know what he says, friends in investigations? They found a witness who confessed, and the witness who testified was sentenced to life in prison; a witness who confessed to Selçuk Spearlı. At the end of 2012, Selçuk performed intestinal surgery at a hospital with a spear, says he was a confessed witness, and discharged in the morning. Guys, you know those physicians in there? Can you do a late-night bowel surgery and discharge a person in the morning? I'll pass it on to the physicians. Another dimension: Friends, this confessor witness has testified in other files, and the courts have ignored all of these confessions, counted them as baseless, and not as evidence, but based on this witness, Selçuk Mizraklı has been arrested. We, look, we looked at the S.G.K. data, did you know that the witness who confessed didn't work in this hospital in those days? With the confession of a person who does not work in this hospital, Selçuk has relieved the Spearman of his position. He'll come and say it now, Vice President. So, what happened? Guys, when the confessed witness made this confession, when he made the slander, he was released two months later, so he got his reward, guys. The politics of the 90s were applied here as well. Why else would Selçuk claim the Spear? Two, HDP's action, event, and the crime of not participating in press releases. See, that's the claim: to participate in HDP's press releases. What else? Our dear Co-Chair Pervin Buldan was speaking at a conference, and there was supposed to be a crime in that speech, and Selçuk Spearli didn't intervene. Look, 50 MPs, our co-Chair -- including me, Selçuk Lancer -- spoke, said something; we didn't run, we didn't cover his mouth, he's accused of it, Selçuk Spearlı. What else? Our Deputy President Fatma Survivan has made a press statement, and whatever he said, Selçuk Spearman did not run and shut Fatma Bashan's mouth, he didn't silence him, and this is his fault, Selçuk Mizraklı. That, my friends, is how a mayor of the city was dismissed from his post with unsubstantiated claims. Our mayor was dismissed in Kulp. Supposedly staged a bombshell.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0005par0077	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0002par0078	Three months later, it turned out that -- the trustee was appointed -- by the way, they were relieved of their duties -- our mayor wasn't there. He's been evacuated, but they're not being reinstated. Look, there are other allegations, my friends, about our mayor, no theft, no corruption, but look, there are documents at Mardin City Hall, documents about theft, corruption. Süleyman Soylu, Mehmet Özhaseki, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Fikri Ismet Yilmaz, Veysel Eroglu, Osman Love Look... about your ministers and your President, your friends have received gifts, gifts; see here are the receipts, documents. There are pictures of Solomon nobleman in that silver shop of his that he had received the gifts. Not a word about any of this. I asked the Vice President if you'd like to open an investigation. There is no need to investigate, he says. Diyarbakir's trustee has made a 2 million-dollar palace cub, 2 tons of baklava, eaten at the beach. Are you going to investigate this? There's no need to investigate, but I'm afraid the trustees have been appointed to replace Selçuk Lanceman in his politics. It's a great injustice. It's illegal. Come, give up this unfair path, my friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0006par0082	The order belongs to Mersin MP Ridvan Turan Bey. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0007par0085	Mr. President, Dear Regents, I salute you all. I'm going to talk about the budget of MIT. Of course, before we talk about intelligence and the National Intelligence Agency, we need to know what kind of country we're talking about. We're living in an extraordinary state regime, we're facing an extraordinary state form. In classical democracies, there's something about the balance of freedom and security that I personally refer to as a liberal utopia. In Turkey, the balance of freedom-security has, unfortunately, transformed into a form of freedom, where security is almost ahead of everything, where security policies determine all public life. We're talking about the National Intelligence Agency of a country like this. Although the workers' right to form a union is constitutionally guaranteed, we are talking about the National Intelligence Agency in a country where every step they take in unionisation is considered a risk of national security, and moreover, a country where the declared strikes have been prevented because they are a threat to national security. Again, we are talking about the National Intelligence Agency of a country where the activities of the People's Democratic Party are considered a national security risk, where former Co-Chairs Demirtaş and Mr. Yüksekdağ have been put in prison for this reason alone, where dozens of our fellow MPs, our mayors, and many of our party workers, over a thousand, are considered to be the risk of national security. Again, you know, the people who posted the most complex terrorist attacks in this country, the Gar massacres, were not illuminated by the state, but when it comes to throwing away a netweet, the security bureaucracy sees nothing at the door of the ancestor at 5 a.m. when it comes to a critic of power. We're talking about the National Intelligence Agency of a country like this. We're talking about a sense of security bureaucracy that's going to risk national security under the actions of environmental concerns, and the nation's National Intelligence Agency, led by a government that accuses anyone who doesn't really think like him, who doesn't actually think like him, who doesn't run politics. Again, I'm not talking about opposition journalists, tens of thousands of students who have been arrested for student actions, but we need to talk about this by morning. But, dear friends, the characteristic of this era is that the state has actually collapsed on society with all its institutions, and the state is involved in a political work, an intelligence study, and a security study that is not under its own determination. The government's approach to this is to support these policies, while its strategy to remain in power, on the other hand -- not to win the approval of society -- is to weaken its political interest. So it's a pity that power is now determined to maintain its own existence only by weakening its own. Look, brother, we pay taxes, we serve, we are people of this country. Why isn't this security bureaucracy, this National Intelligence Agency, equal to the public on these matters? Why is it that someone, some focus, is more important? Why is it that I do not offer equal service to all the people? I am not able to defend liberal utopias, such as so and so. I am in no position to say such things. I'm a 30-year socialist, and this socialist struggle is a man who's experienced enough in my life that institutions like the National Intelligence Agency, the Security Intelligence Agency, the Military Intelligence Agency, are one of the main ways and methods in which a minority can maintain its own power. So I'm going to do it in terms of the MIT budget for never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, and in the speech I'm doing, why is this the way things are? For example, why couldn't the Gar massacre be illuminated? Why wasn't this stopped two months before the MIT Gar massacre? I'm not going to say it's natural. They function in all capitalist societies to maintain the power of a minority. Of course, they won't be at equal distance, and of course they won't look at life the way we do. But, of course, I would also like to present to our people the following: You know Abraham Bali. This man has been cited as both the defendant of the Ankara Gar massacre and the bombing of Adana and Mersin and the Suruç massacre, and we are still unable to get a satisfactory explanation. MSI officials, MİSCE... there were a ton of allegations that this man had been invited to a hotel in Ankara at that time and had been in contact with high-level MIT officials, and he entered the court files, but we didn't see any explanations about it. Let's put that away. Friends, the bodies of young toy bearers have been torn to shreds. Did the MIT not predict this attack, which saw a national security risk from the actions of the children writing on the wall? Other attacks were not previously reported by the MIT? Come on, let's put these away, what were those trucks carrying, for God's sake, what were those trucks carrying? The world now knows that those trucks are carrying guns, carrying bombs, and that there is a policy there to support ISIS terror against the struggle to achieve a status in Rojava. There's no need to hide them, and we know that the remnants of ISIS, the al-Qaeda remnants of Al-Qaeda, have gathered them under the MIT line to mediate what national armies were formed, and we know that. We all know what these things are. So we are unfortunately aware that in this country, the policy of opposition to the Democrats, against the opposition Kurds, against the revolutionaries, against socialists, has already been maintained by these organizations in a punishment of evil. We wish it wasn't like this. So let no one expect us to have a positive attitude in this regard today, when the budget of the MIT is being discussed. That goes for MIT and other security bureaucracies and other security agencies, unfortunately. Sadly, this is the role that all authoritarian populist mechanisms around the world have been putting into such security devices, the suppression of opposition, the silence of opposition, and the use of the most algebraic methods to sustain power itself under any circumstances. If we're talking about the mess that Syrian politics has fallen into today, it's certainly the final point of politics that the AKP's government has carried out through the MIT, dear friends, if we can see how serious our country is facing today in Syria. So I want to make it clear that this inequality, this double standard attitude, yes, is in the nature of power and power. But our nature is, of course, to resist it, to fight it, and to expose it to our people at every opportunity. That's what we're gonna say to the end. Now, for the MIT, who didn't get the intel of so many massacres, so many human rights violations, so many lives that have been burned, and who's been double-standard about it, you tell me, do we have any reason to trust MIT? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0008par0094	The order belongs to Tunceli MP Alican Önlü.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0009par0096	Mr. President, before I begin my speech, I salute all the hostages held hostage by Dear Figen Yüksekdağ and Milahattin Demirtaş and our party workers, our chosen ones, the revolution prisoners and our people. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, today I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group to plan and organise the national Security Council budget for political genocide, trustee gas, hostage policies. I salute the board. The National Security Council is the guardianship institution of today's multicultural, multi-identified structure, which carries the spirit of the monotheist, denial of impulse and terakki concept, the most important institution of political chaos, social polarization, denial on peoples and beliefs. It is the mortgage institution that sows evil in the country, shapes the political institution with its tuition, prevents democracy from developing, and maintains the bright future of society. With the Constitution of 1924, the founding power, which turned its direction into a singularist, centrist and assimilationist, laid the foundation of today's National Security Council in 1933 to preserve and preserve this monotheism. The Council, which was the National Defence High Council from 1933-1949, planned the 1960 coup of Turkey on the grounds that it was taken to the pressure regime and to the brother fight, and blocked democracy, which was still in the process of crawling, pave the way for the execution of its Prime Minister and friends. Today (December 17th) is the anniversary and date of the 49th annual trial in which Kurdish intellectuals Ape Musas, Canip Yıldırıms and Dr. Shivans were also arrested. During that time, Kurdish intellectuals were asked to be silenced as a target of military custody, to be blocked by the Kurdish struggle. Following NATO membership today, he created illegal structures, supported and created chaos under the name Anti-Communism. He has turned all revolutionaries, intellectuals and opponents against him. The future of the Republic of Turkey is in grave danger. The revolutionary opposition of 1968 was suppressed and the revolutionary leaders were executed on March 12, 1971. Again, in the chaos created by this Council, on May 1st, 1977, 34 workers were massacred by hundreds of Alevis at Maras and Çorum. With these massacres, the floor of the 1980 coup was created. From 1971 to 1980, 9 elected power was eliminated. With all these blows, the community in the country has been shown who is truly in power almost every ten years. With the 1980 coup, Turkey tried to digest social opposition, including left and Kurdish revolutionaries, with the most brutal methods in Diyarbakır, Mamak, Metris prisons. According to this Kurula, the bush had been cleared, and now there was only one enemy left in the country, and it was the Kurds who did not bow down to all oppression and intimidation, they did not pledge anything, they wanted equal citizenship in the democratic and common country. Therefore, the National Security Council has updated the Political Document on Kurdish hostility. Kurdish villages were burned in the 1990s with this red pamphlet, considered the true constitution of Turkey; 17,000 unsolved murders were committed with countergerilla activities; the Aleki's social demands were tried to be suppressed by the Sivas massacre. At a meeting on December 12, 1996, this National Security Council, which also serves as a public population engineer, discussed ways to prevent the Kurdish population growth from being on the agenda. On February 28th, this deep structure showed its face one more time and changed a chosen power. The impact, which took place in history as a postmodern coup, has initially signed human rights violations against religious people, such as the ban on headscarves. Constitutional institutions get their powers from the Constitution and their legitimacy from the people. The National Security Council, a military custody agency, has acted outside of its constitutional duties since it was founded. The National Security Council, which considers itself above the Constitution, has cut democracy down, reduced elected powers, shut down parties, created social chaos by turning people and beliefs against opponents. Chaos and chaos have become a fundamental, unchanging strategy for this Council, a governing device. The AKP, which came to power in 2002, promised to end the Kurdish and Alevi problem, democracy and human rights violations, and this military custody institution, which is responsible for economic crises. Turkey's people have taken the AKP to power with the demand of democracy, rights, law, human rights. The lack of conflict between 1999 and 2004 brought a ceasefire resolution that created the democratic solution to the Kurdish problem and brought with it the solution process. Erdogan made a call for the historically important solution process for the people of Turkey on 28 February 2015. On April 24, 2016, however, the same Erdogan denied the Dolmabahçe Covenant and knocked over the solution table. However, the Dolmabahçe Covenant, which Mr. Ocalan wanted announced on the anniversary of the February 28 coup, was already a consensus against coup and military custody. By ending this process with an alliance with the National Security Council, Erdogan, in fact, sacrificed the hope of peace and resolution that Turkey's people long for for years to achieve for its own personal power. Another turning point is the 2014 National Security Council meeting. The longest National Security Council meeting in the history of Turkey has planned the great destructions of the past five years, under the name of the disintegration plan. The failure of the chosen ones, the disgrace of our party, the silence of free press institutions and opposition media, the death of 15,000 people, the arrest of 8,000 people, the immigration of 30,000 people, the destruction of cities, the loss of trustees, the intimidation of forces to fight the Kurds. This plan of destruction has been initiated as a basic strategy and is still under way. Not only did the Kurds fall; Alevis, women, young people, nature, economy, science and art were also wanted to be destroyed. The crash plan was developed in 2013 against Mr. Ocalan's message in Diyarbakir province, so the plan to bring peace into his hand and hope for a solution was met. The process of solutions, which not a single human being's nose could be fooled, has resulted in a plan to collapse, and today the stones of social destruction have been laid out. Following the crash plan of coup mechanics, the military's armour law was brought to the army, and secret regulations were sent to the judiciary for soldiers, police and officers who carried out this plan. The solution process was put on the shelf and the infrastructure of the July 15 coup was created, which was the basis of the July 20th coup. The ongoing hostage policies, removal of immunitys, disassociation of municipalities, shutting down opposition institutions, firing thousands of workers from work, silence of the press, occupation and asylum initiatives are the common plan of the government and this Council. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, but let's not forget that when we talk about this anti-democratic militant structure, we don't talk about their partners. We will end the military custody. Those who came to power in their speech today carried this custody to the palace. We will civilize the National Security Council. Those who set out to make it a palace. The National Security Council is now a palace institution, and the palace knows it will not exist without the National Security Council. And that's why we're going to remove the custody of the AKP or Militarist. When you say that, the political party has lost its property, it's become an institution of self-preservation. In this parliament, we need to talk about closing the budget of this anti-democracy Council, and the judiciary must judge and account for all the unlawfulities of this Council.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0010par0113	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0009par0114	The palace where we discuss the budget is not a public palace, nor is the National Security Council a constitutional institution. Therefore, as the People's Democratic Party, I say no to this Council and to its budget, I salute all of you, who do not take its power from the Constitution, who systematically violate the Constitution, who want to dress the community in a monotheistic shirt.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0010par0117	The order belongs to Adana MP Kemal Peköz. Here you go, Mr. Peköz.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0011par0120	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the High Council of Religious Affairs. When we look at the practices in Turkey, I'm going to try to explain to you what an institution is and what politics is doing, what it's become, what it's doing, what it's becoming. Our party struggles to resolve the freedoms of belief, expression, conscience and worship of all non-discrimination communities and non-believers on the basis of the rights of equal citizenship because it has been transformed into a problem with both budget spending and policy enforcement by the power of the State of Turkey. The use of public resources only to spread Sunni Islam shows that there is no compulsion in religion. The sentence is forgotten. If you're a bayonet, you can get community service. However, other religious groups, religious leaders, and religious centres must also be earmarked. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Religious Affairs does not cut budgets for different groups of believers and does not support groups. See, the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is higher than the budget of eight ministries. The estimated amount for the 2020 budget is 11 billion 519 million 609,000 Turkish liras. When we look closely at the budget pens, the costs and the use of them are also dark, unknown. For example, there are 38 million liras reserved for transfers, but there is no explanation for who, for what purpose, for what association and institutions, for what foundation. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, religion has been invented to keep the regime out of the way, and today it's become a tool in the hands of the current government for community engineering. Following a parallel path to ruling policies against the Alevilik and other belief groups outside the Sunni Hanefi line, national geography, national history, and coercion of understanding of religion into society are one of the key factors. The religion of Shafii, particularly the Kurdish language, is seen to be extremely inadequate for Kurds'customs and customs. For example, as an imam who doesn't speak any Kurdish can be assigned to a mehra that doesn't speak any Turkish, Sunni personnel can also be assigned to areas that are all Flames. There are six different languages on the official website of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, but in the country where nearly 20 million Kurds live, there is no official mention of Kurds on the official site, nor has any department opened. The political and delicate boundaries of diabetes need to be determined very well. The religion must be transformed into an autonomous organization that has been liberated from the monopoly of power, dedicated to the service of society and run by a president who has been elected to work. The Ministry of Religious Affairs, which receives its budget from taxes paid by Alevis, works as an assimilation centre, as well as the Alekis do not provide a single service for its own unique identity. The president of the Religious Affairs, who did not accept the temples as a sanctuary at every turn, has stated that 2,000 religious officials have been assigned to the Alevi villages of Alevi. The institution does not have any work on Alevis or Alevis, except for its attempt to guide, assimilate the Alevis. My lesson, Çanakkale, Manisa, and the last of the villages in Kars have been put in an effort to build mosques, and for which reasons have been made up. These policies must be abandoned at once, and mosques that have been built so far must be converted into schools, clinics, and mosques with a decree. Alevis need recognition of their denied religious identity, not mosques or imams. With denial and imposition, you can only increase the unrest that exists by trying to dissolve different identities of faith into a monotheistic structure. The Alevis don't accept and disapprove of their tax dollars used to assimilate themselves in these denial policies. Instead of carrying the burden of these illegal taxes, come, all of you together, prioritize the existence of a variety that the Alekis can create their budget, and let the prisoners who are in prisons and wish to meet their grandfather, Alevi, meet with them. Ankara, Adana, Antalya, Bursa, Maraş, Izmir, Malatya and the last of the houses of Alevi are marked, threatened in Istanbul, and until now a healthy investigation has been conducted, and the state that listens to everyone's breath has not been able to find any responsibility or any assessment. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers should create opportunities for religious and state affairs to separate themselves from each other, to express themselves freely, as part of equality and freedom, to fight in secularism. On the grounds of Mevlit Kandili, the chair of the Diabetes Department, look not at the phone, but at your wife's face. She has published a public spot called "Mevlit Kandili." Here, again, the male dominant has released a spot that reveals that women are solely responsible for domestic affairs by displaying the male mentality. This, again, is one of the best expressions that shows the state's family structure and the way it looks at women. A protocol was signed between the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the President of the Religious Affairs, and 711 religious officials were assigned to the schools for a year's service. The religious officer will serve in sports facilities, camps, and youth centers. I'd like to ask you, what's he doing out there? If you need motivation, instead of sending psychologists or psychiatrists here if you need psychological support, it can only help the religious and vindictive generation in Turkey to be created; it will not help the community to live together. Through the Diet Foundation, 51 other student dorms have been built in the last two years, and the number of dianest-based homes has increased to 70. The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has no obligation to build a student dorm. If there is a need for housing -- which there is -- the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of National Education, talks, consults among themselves, gives him a budget and builds a dorm. It means that there are homes for people who belong to a thought that can go there and stay there. Why does religion allow politics to take place in churches, sermons in mosques? Rather than taking an interest in them, he must certainly aim to serve Christians, persecutions, Jews, Alevis, and to prevent politics there. According to the Constitution, the religion must aim to establish national solidarity and integration by staying out of all political opinions and opinions, in accordance with the principle of secularism. But instead, he gives a fatwa in favor of power, and when power is in trouble, he does not neglect to publish a second fetish by facilitating his work. Mr. President, from what I've told you, the President of the Religious Affairs must be restructured, transformed into an autonomous structure and an organization run by a president who has been elected to run for office. Compulsory religious lessons must be removed, Alevi's demands for equal citizenship must be accepted, their decrees must be accepted as a place of worship, their beliefs exposed to discrimination must be treated equally to the places of worship. A statement on 12/4/2002, dated 2002/4100, under which Cemevs were not counted, should be changed in the 2/f section of the Council of Ministers' Decision. In this case, the religious pluralism in Turkey is impossible to fully reflect. Religion and state work must be separated, creating opportunities for all identities to express themselves freely, equality and freedom must be created in a comprehensive secularism. This attitude also means that Sunni Muslims must fight to free their beliefs from the state monopoly, free them and live their religious beliefs as they please. Dear friends, time is running out and I want to end with a joke. Once upon a time, a bird travels by the side of the road to feed, and across the street, it sees a human with a dervish sweater on it. Since it has a dervish sweater on it, the bird does not hesitate, does not hesitate, and continues to wander. The person walking around in a Dervis sweater approaches him, jumps on him, and breaks his wing. They go to court, and the bird complains, and he says, "He broke my wing, and he wronged me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0012par0139	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0011par0140	They ask him, and they say, "What should we punish him for this?" And then, in retaliation, the person who wears a dervish sweater is decided to break his arm. The bird says: "No, don't break his arm." If you break his arm, after a while, his arm heals, comes back, tries to trick someone with a dervish sweater. Take off the dervish cardigan on him, and he will have the greatest punishment for it. And the day we take off the dervish cardigan that he has now taken over power, this country will be at peace, and everyone will have the chance to live happily together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0013par0146	Dear lawmakers, it is not acceptable to call a leader of a terrorist organization a prisoner. In addition, none of the operations performed by the glorious Turkish army are for occupation and asylum. The Turkish army makes its fight against terrorism at all costs. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account In turn, it belongs to Virgil MP Erdal Aydemir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0014par0189	Mr. President, dear General Assembly, dear MPs, I salute you all. Mr. General Assembly, you know that every year from December 10th to December 17th, our country is celebrated as the week of Human Rights and Democracy. But in this process, especially since this week's meaning and significance, we know the necessity of giving a few historical and up-to-date examples of justice, the state of justice, the state of democracy during the AKP administration over the past 17 years. Friends, during the 17-year period of AKP rulings, the judiciary was made to be as empty as a Zazaca term, one. Friends, Zazaca means....... a rotten walnut. In this case, AKP authorities have refuted the judiciary over the course of 17 years; they have made justice, law untrustworthy. Dear friends, about two hundred and forty, two hundred and fifty years ago, King Friedrich II of Germany takes a trip to Berlin. During this trip, he likes a place near Berlin with a beautiful view and says to his men: "Build me a palace here. The king's men went to the mill and loved it. We will nationalize this mill, we will pay for it, and instead we will build a palace for our King. However, the miller insists on telling his grandfather, and his father, that he will not sell his mill, nor will he give it to the king. Then the king's men carry the matter to the king. King II. Friedrich says, "Bring this miller to my presence. He will appear before the miller king." The king says: "You know that I am the King, and if I want to, I will destroy this mill without paying for it, and I will have my palace built in its place." Here, the miller returns to the king and tells his famous proverb, "Yes, my king, you are the King, you can do it, but remember that there are judges in Berlin, there are judges." [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here, friends, whether you are one man or one man, whether you are the king or the power to hold power at all costs, everyone is equal to the law, and one day a king and a miller, just as in Germany, will be able to be neighbored by justice. Dear friends, of course, after these emphasises of justice, I would like to talk about two cases, especially in our country, which, again, should be passed on to the history of law and judgment. Friends, Mr. General Assembly, members of parliament; look, friends, Mr. AKP Group; this is Oğuz Arda Sel, Tekirdağ died in a train accident. In that accident, the body of Oğuz was split in two, and the body of Oğuz was divided in two, and the doctors planted it and put it in a body bag, and delivered it to his grandfather. Oğuz Arda's grandfather cried out for justice after the third hearing last week in Chorus. Oğuz Arda's grandfather Mehmet Öz said at the exit of the court that the justice mechanism is not working in this country. Take your hands off justice, and by command from above, there shall be no trial; justice must act with the conscience of the judges. Take your hands off justice, the justice mechanism doesn't work in this country, and he's a prisoner in the hands of politics. Here, my friends, from Tekirdağ Çorük, Arda. His grandfather is calling out, shouting, "Are there judges in Ankara?" Is there justice in Ankara? The entire General Assembly is yelling at members of the ruling party. Friends, again, on September 28, 2009, Ceylan Önkol, who took his animals to graze in the village of Yayyla, in the village of Yayla district of Bingol Province, was torn to pieces, friends, with an air thrown from Ceylan Önkolun, Yayla Station. Like Arda's body, he was torn to pieces. Do you know what the resemblance is to Arda? Neither of their perpetrators could be brought to trial. Ceylan Önkol's mother carried her child's bones and buried them in her skirt, and for ten years, Saliha Önkol, the mother of Ceylan Önkol, is there a judge in the village of Yayla, Ankara? [[Applause from HDP rows]] There were enormous similarities between the two events. What were the similarities, fellas? The search for justice for both families was that they no longer had any expectations of the corrupt, rotting, rotting courts and the judiciary. Again, I'd like to end my conversation with that photo. Look, Arda and Ceylan, I'm sure they're in heaven together and they're screaming to the legislature right now: Be followers of justice that doesn't exist for us, my deputy uncles, my grandfathers, my aunts, my aunts; find the people who killed us, the perpetrators who killed us, investigate them, bring them to trial, and let the children die after us; let the courts die in a fair way; let the past, our mothers, our fathers, our brothers, our relatives's, and our relatives's trust in justice be restored. This is a debt on the neck of today's Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The perpetrators of Arda and Ceylan will have to be found and brought to justice and questioned. Friends, I'd like to say good-bye to a four-way song by Sezen Aksu. Oh, he gallops in my heart, Wings on the milk of horses, Mesopotamia across my right side, On my left side, Rumelel's mourning explodes. On the one hand they're calling from Rumeli, Arda from Mesopotamia, Ceylan from Mesopotamia, Justice! My respects.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0015par0209	Batman MP Necdet İpekface is next in line. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0016par0212	Mr. President, we've been interviewing the Turkish budget for 2018 and 2020, along with the Plan and Budget Commission for nearly two months now. We've always talked about the importance of budget rights, we've come up with a right, and we know that in a budget we need to make a budget in favor of a large majority, disadvantaged segments -- laborer, farmer, farmer, woman, young, student -- but in these two months, they didn't exist. On the contrary, it's more like a supporting group and a budget that serves the interests of capital groups. There was no regulation for pensioners, for workers, for a large majority, for those of Turkey's vast wealth, for those who represent differences, and for those who live on minimum wage, and unfortunately, when we said that many times, it was ignored. As noted, when we say there's a crisis -- at this time, last year -- is there a crisis? Don't say that, you're traitors... At the moment we're here, there's been a stack of savings arrangements, and the savings have been explained in two ways. As a matter of fact, it's said in the arrangements for strategic planning, budget-related, presidential, that you need to encourage the community, you need to encourage the citizen to save in an extraordinary situation. In fact, maybe the citizens of power need to look up to them because the citizens are learning how to save money when they're buying olives and they're buying cheese and they're paying for electricity and they're paying for natural gas, but on the one hand -- we're always saying -- these bollocks continue. And what happened? These irregularities were always tried to be accused when spoken out of sight because the most convenient way to cover something up in Turkey right now is to accuse it of a perception operation. So, what wasn't in this budget, other than that? Friends, no democracy, no peace, no justice, no rule of law. What is it? There was fear, there was pressure, and every time I said something about defense, there was talk. When the Treasury Department came and presented them -- thirty, five minutes -- there was only terror, division, treason, treason, and others -- workers, officers, peace, democracy, freedom, they didn't exist. What else was in the budget? There was no Parliament in this budget, there was no control of parliament, there was no control of the President of Strategy and Budget, there was no control of the presidency, the Court was shut down, and the treasure was divided into a separate, budgetary position. And what was it? We know that the State Planning Agency was established in the 1960s. The State Planning Agency has been established in 2011, the Ministry of Development has been established, and now there is no Ministry, no name; it's a position of the presidency; it's a institution that's always been cared for from the past, it's always addressed, it's always referred to in the series, it's the Ottoman thing, it's the Ministry of Development, it's the Ministry of Development, it's the Ministry of Development. People are out there, there are no counselors, and the President is setting up the program and coming to Parliament. As a matter of fact, the President said: "I am considering five percent growth. No one could object, so it was arranged accordingly. Now, there's no people in this budget, there's no rant; there's nothing purely Ranta based on production. There is no concern about Turkey's future in this budget. How can we build peace? How much more about defense... because when you look at defense, it's more about internal defense. On the one hand it's all over; there's no room in the hotels in Mardin; there's no room in Diyarbakır; there's no room in the hotels; there's no room in the hotels; there's no place for everything here; but when we say something, there's a disaster when we face it, there's no disaster; there's no disaster; the greatest disaster, you're going to try to cover it up, and you're taking refuge in it. No law, no democracy. Now, friends, on the other hand, budget rights actually represent the will of the people, and in this budget, there are some provisions for financial governance, particularly the 5th article of the Public Financial Management and Control Act, which gives the Turkish Parliament the right to manage in accordance with budgetary rights. This has now been eliminated, and no one can use it, and the House has no authority in the budget building process; it comes and talks, and the point is brought here, without changing its comma -- what dear Paylan said -- is brought before us. All of this is being prepared in the presidential department, the ministries are supposedly related, but they work separately, and they've all been transformed into a complicated form. If we give you a few statistics... everyone knows the numbers on unemployment, just yesterday DİSK issued a statement. The unemployment rate is increasing rapidly, and most of all in young people and women and young people are in college graduates. Poverty is constantly increasing. In this study, what strategic planning can we do about them? How can we adjust this budget? There is no such thing. And this budget always talks about security, not trust. Today, when you come to Batman, when you come to Siirt, when you come to Diyarbakır, when you visit all the provinces of the region, they shake off security from Kurds when you say, "Trust or security?" Security has been known to come to mind from the very beginning to this day, and trust is what they want most. If there's trust, the construction of tomorrow can be expressed in every way. Yeah, when the budget that doesn't work for trust gets ahead of security, no one trusts it, and it's getting away. The people who worked for trust, the people who belonged to the Democratic Society Congress in Batman, were working in Batman's neighborhoods to fight drugs for young people. Some of them are currently under arrest, in prison; some of them have been released; they have been in custody for eight days. In many counties, people like this, when they work for a trust facility, they're deprived. We talked about planning. What else is in this budget, guys? They've come up with so many good ways to cover things up in this budget. We asked the Minister of Transport what is the transfer to this household? They give it to the firms. Who are the firms? Five companies that build the highway, build bridges off the highway, build airports, give them to them. When we look at the limit of transfers to the household and the transfer to the household, the number is increasing. Some of it may be being used for its purpose, but some of it is covered up, and we don't get a lot of answers when we ask. Another thing: nonprofit institutions. Guys, there's over 2 billion in the 2020 budget for non-profit agencies. Who are they? There are no NGOs in the budget anyway. Who are these nonprofits? So no one's explaining it. That's a lot of money... Now, when we say war, when we say we don't know things, everyone objects. Who's giving money to the SOS or the national Syrian Army from this budget? The Minister of Defense said: "My Ministry doesn't give it, but I don't know what pen it's from. " But we all know it does. How are we going to build tomorrow if we, NGOs, don't know about this? So it's like we don't actually notice anything illegal, and if it's legal, it needs to be explained. Guys, another one... what happened here? In the past, lawmakers in parliament were asking, they were getting information from the Court, they were getting information from State Planning, they were getting information from the Ministry of Development, they were getting information from the ministers... The ministers aren't responding at all now. Now a citizen -- not from here -- asks CIMER directly; CIMER has stopped asking questions to the presidential institutions. No questions are allowed to be asked in the Ministry of Strategy, no questions are asked in MİT. No questions asked in the Anadolu Agency, no questions about the TRT. They've already turned CIMER (CIMER) into a reference, like posting the one who left, and that's different. In fact, there's a lot to talk about, friends: Today, our friends mentioned events in Human Rights Week, December 10th and 17th, and the 49th case was mentioned, but today we need to talk about something else. What do we need to talk about? When you come, our friends are always repeating: "We will fight illegal, corruption and poverty. " The poverty is already knee-deep, the bans are already public, corruption... does December 17th ring a bell today? Since December 17th and the People's Democratic Party first came out, each year he made efforts and motions to make it the week's week to fight corruption and bribery. Dear Osman Baydemir gave me this. In his beloved Demirtaş speech, while speaking in the group, he said: "One, transparency; two, democratization; three, let us establish the superiority of justice; let us pave the way for Turkey; the path to peace is open for all of us." How are you gonna make him believe that? The trustees have become more than 1 billion people have committed corruption in Van. In Diyarbakir, about 1 billion in Mardin, again, almost 1 billion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he had been prevented that day, today Turkey could have taken huge steps in the peace process and in the fight against corruption, but that didn't happen. What happened? It has become such that the name of the former Medical Chamber Chairman Ilhan Diken. If you read the life of Ilhan Diken, he has a life of gold. The terrorist's name is on the streets... with a re-sensory operation. It has nothing to do with it. Even if we do it on paper, public opinion, conscience, the people of the region know what it is, and it's pretty much, this mentality is getting further and further away from polarization, and people are getting further away from each other. We need to figure this out. When we don't do this, we get away from everything, and a lot of our friends are in prisons with dignity, because you didn't fight that day in the past, but with dignity. Maybe they're listening to us, and I'm sending them a salute from here. But we've got to figure this out, we've got to figure it out in peace. In his book, the new book of dear Idris Bauken was published last week, saying: " Either these policies will be abandoned or this power will go away. " Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0017par0230	Van MP Murat Sarısaç is in line.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0018par0232	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today we wake up to a democratic day, with the right to choose and be elected in two districts and one district. [[!]] And I'm going to go over my views on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal without going into detail. I hereby salute our esteemed people and the General Assembly who follow us. With Neoliberal economic policies, understanding that has exploited the labor of citizens for years has led to recklessness and rashness with neo-regular policies. So that when the mujahideen became contractors and drained the entire country's resources like a vacuum, the poverty of the people deepened. So this budget is not the budget of our citizens and our people; it is a budget that puts the burden of the economic crisis on the people, but does not hold back one percent of the people from ignoring it. The court budget has nothing to give young, unemployed, farmers, workers and workers because the logic of this budget is based on the indifference of those who answer to citizens who complain about the cost of life. The existence of politics finds meaning in the implementation of dialogue and negotiating methods in problems that cause suffering. But it's a time when the political mind is being thrown back. The AKP is able to put aside the Constitution and the laws for its benefit. In the final process, the Imperial isolation system, where the court's regime has a direct decision, also has arbitrary decisions. In particular, it is evident that the implementation of absolute isolation for Mr. Abdullah Ocalan is not an act of universal law norms and justice, but an act of temporal political preferences. For what it's worth, isolation is a crime of humanity, and I say it as a universal norm. It should be noted that isolation in Imran is a system of torture that constitutes a violation of the Constitution of international law and contracts. Therefore, all isolation practices, particularly in the isolation of the Imralı, must be terminated immediately. Mr. President, the AKP's war policy has caused a lot of suffering in this country. In Kurdish geography, the basic constitutional rights of citizens, including life, health, education and travel, have been suspended. There was such a lack of conscience that nearly 200 people were brutally murdered in Cizre. We saw Mama Taybet's funeral on the street for days. Mankind also witnessed a mother hiding in a refrigerator so that her ten - year - old Cemile would not be corrupted by her lifeless body. Is it possible to forget the tyranny of power poisoning? Of what kind can the AKP ignore the plundering, looting, rape, and child massacres of the OSO gangs in Tel Rifat, Serekanye and Afrin? The AKP regime sees the presence of Kurds inside and outside as a threat to their gains because the AKP government is seeking future in Kurdish hostility. He made it a fundamental policy not only in Turkey, but also in Syria, Iraq and Iran. He seeks future in Kurdish hostility, so that if the Kurds demand or ask for status in Mars, the first reaction will come from the AKP. Although the AKP is trying to explain that there is no Kurdish enemy in the international arena, it seems that its thesis in public is not credible and that the Kurdish anti-Kurdish label clings to them, the Iraqi federate will be dependent on Kurds in the Kurdistan region. We know that the moral and conscientious decaying power in domestic politics is trying to prolong its life by attacking the gains of the Kurdish people. Members of parliament, in Kurdish geography, many of our civilian people have died on grounds of violation of the authority to use arms or ▪ Stop. A few months ago, in the van, I clearly would have shot the law enforcement force against us. We witnessed his words personally. Of course, just a few days ago, it was seen that a police officer drew a gun on a citizen, and more seriously, Murat Kaya, a civilian citizen father of 3 children in Tutak district of Ağrı, was murdered and our delegation of MPs was prevented from entering the village. Isn't it against the Kurds that we come across when we put it all together? Stop making up a terror cover for Kurdish persecution, bullying, lawless policy, because now it smells of salt. Come on, okay, we get it, you're enemies of the Kurdish language, identity, values, the living, but what do you want from the dead? In what religion, apart from fascism -- in what ideology is there to torture people's funerals, to prevent them from being buried according to tradition and beliefs? Can you give us one such example in the world? But you're the only one, unfortunately. Murat Kaya was buried from his relatives, hiding from the people, and was not even allowed to offer his condolences. Again, during AKP rule, the graveyards were bombed, even the dead were sprayed with water, and the coffins were dropped. However, Islam is condemned from the dead, and the immunity of the funeral is based on its immunity, but unfortunately you don't know it because they're terrorists in your usual memory. You say, "They're terrorists." You see all Kurds as terrorists.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0019par0242	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0020par0243	Let's hear it, guys.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0018par0244	During the reigns before you, Ahmet Kaya was being thrown forks and knives; then you appeared and said: "The Kurdish problem is my problem, and I will solve it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0021par0245	There's no Kurdish problem. There's no terror problem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0018par0246	Then you came to power, and in your time of power, Ahmet, let the Rocks throw forks and knives, the Bekir Rocks were thrown into the dungeons because they were Kurds...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0022par0247	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0018par0248	...Murat took hundreds of bullets to the Rocks, because he's Kurd again. All of this happened during your reign.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0023par0249	Do you believe you're talking?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0018par0250	On the way out, they said to me, "Don't pay too much attention to the interference."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0024par0252	You're the one who's jamming the bench!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0018par0253	Members of parliament, the March 31st elections, the coup of the AKP's trustees, declared that the pre-regional election democracy in Turkey no longer exists. Because the AKP's court regime has mortgaged the people's will by refusing to accept the outcome of the last two local elections. Especially since June 7th, the AKP, which led the country to elections in terms of the bombings, which the opposition could not even hold, has not declined to justify any means to turn the results in favour. However, in the March 31st local elections, HDP took many municipalities back from trustees. Our co-chairs have shared with the public the status quo of trustees and their wasteful corruption, with documents that are implausible and unimaginable. Thus it was revealed how the resources needed to be used for the greater benefit of the people were seen by trustees as trophies and looted. So that in the western part of the country, the anti-Kurdish agendas and the attentions have been drawn to the other side, while in many municipalities, billions of dollars of people have been put on display in certain circles. In his statement on the official website of the Hakkari People's Democratic Party (HDP) province of Turkey, which has not made a single tender, he claimed that the tender price was high and the difference was sent to the organisation. On the other hand, the City of Yüksekova has been a municipality that has been borrowed from the previous trustee for $687m and has been seized by the HDP municipality for more than a hundred per cent of its income and cannot even pay its staff's salary for months. I repeat, there is not a single tender made by the City of Yüksekova in this process. Again, the Minister of the Interior came out with a heroic attitude and we almost caught him. The same counter was applied at the Palace City Hall, which was one of the 10 municipalities that were destroyed by his nickname. However, the city has made the public's official petitions into municipal files, which have been put to a vote in the municipal council, including AKP. Companies that make bills and purchases of every penny of it are obvious. I think the Home Secretary thought that because it was the end of the year, it was a bill deficit for Kandil.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0025par0256	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0018par0257	But we know that it wasn't the invoices that were plastic, it was your cheap machiavelist understanding that came out dozens of times. Mr. President, in a few instances, we've tried to explain to you what has become of the choice and the right of choice that is essential to democracies. Since the appointed municipalities are HDP (HDP) because there are six municipalities that have been displaced on the basis of the KHK, municipal council members and municipal council members may have been suspended from office by false investigations and have been appointed trustees, the problems we are talking about are only HDP (HDP)'s problem, and those who have not dropped democracy by language may have been deaf and dumb. But it has to be known that the issue is not terrorism, it's order, it's not about beka; it's about eliminating the AKP's election, which understands that it can't win the elections anymore. In short, it's about rant, it's about fascism, it's about democracy and Kurdish hostility. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0026par0261	The first statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is from Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0027par0263	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There's been a theatre in the Plan Budget Commission and the General Assembly for days. Of course, the only man who's got all the power is going to draw up the budget, and he's going to keep all the control of the budget. This is the greatest injustice to Parliament, the greatest disgrace. If a country's parliament can't do its budget, it's a big freak, dear friends. Now, he meets with the Plan and Budget Commission and lands with the General Assembly. We're looking at the exact account of the 2018 budget. In 2018, the initial budget for the presidency budget -- open -- 845 million -- is not enough, but the palace spends 1 billion 648 million budgets. This budget is increasing in later years, a start-up grant of $2 billion, $818 million in the 2019 budget -- we'll see the final account for the next year -- has already exceeded 3.5 billion. The budget required in 2020 is 3 billion 152 million... an embarrassing figure, an embarrassing statement. Why? Because in no way the initial budget or the desired budget is achieved, just as no budget of AKP power and the presidency has held up in 17 years. Now, it's just a grant, and there's a covered grant. In recent years, the coffers were the Prime Minister's, but the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister was well aware of the covered grant, and he knew well where it was being spent. In 2003, when the AKP prepared the first budget, 98 million Turkish liras put money into a covered grant. Then there's an increase in mind-boggling money used in the budget of 2018, 1 billion 768 million covered funds. And in 2020? In 2020, the normal presidential budget has doubled to 2.3 billion, 152 million, as well as a budget covered by $5 billion,763 million. And it's not satisfied, there's a reserve budget that previously belonged to the Finance Ministry, and the entire budget is in the presidency. How much is this? That's just over 8 billion by 2020. What I'm saying is that in 2020, the President will spend over 17 billion dollars, but it's open-ended, just like the 2 billion 818 million in 2019, over 3.5 billion -- it's going to go into the records -- in 2021, when we talk about the 2021 budget -- we'll see that the initial budget exceeds 5 billion. Let's go back, I'd like to compare it to two of the previous presidents: 10th President Ahmet Necdet Sezer was president for eight years, a total budget spent for eight years is 197 million; a year's average is 25 million. 11th President Abdullah Gul has been president for seven years, spent seven years on 746 million; there is a rise in AKP; its natural average is 106 million per year. The money the 12th President Recep Tayyip Erdogan used in one year -- I'm talking about 2018 -- 1 billion 648 million, you think about the rest. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This budget is a waste budget; it's a luxury budget, it's a luxury budget, it's a luxury budget, it's a government budget, it's a luxury budget!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0028par0271	Then what's the PM's budget?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0027par0272	My dear friends, there is talk of one thing: a country's reputation is measured in its democracy, measured in its freedoms, measured in its human rights. A country's reputation is not measured by its palace, its glitter, its reign, its mansion, its planes. You, if you get over your poor citizens, provide work for your unemployed, then you'll be a respectable country. When did the reputation of this country rise? When Mustafa Kemal became President of Ataturk, this country had a reputation when he went to Chankaya Mansion 1,071. (HPP) The reputation of this country has been destroyed, and now it's on the ground. Another thing: there are my dear friends, institutions, appointed ministers, there are a lot of appointed ministers, there are bureaucrats of those institutions. They were appointed. Who appointed them? President. So, according to his savings, he's been assigned according to his equipment, but Mr. President is also discrediting those appointed. How? There's the Council of Counsellors in the presidency. Counselors have advisors, dear friends. Think about it. The Council of Counsellors, consultants, advisors, are serving the President. So, what is it with these ministers and bureaucrats, dear friends? These ministers are being discredited, these bureaucrats are being discredited. If my friends and I were to be treated like this, we wouldn't be sitting in those seats for an hour or an hour. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, let's go back, there's the advisory boards, and there's the High Council of Appeals, dear friends. The companions, the friends he's traveling with, will consult, conquer, take advantage of their savings. No, it's money to even consult with your companions. Are you going to have company, company, friendship with money? Perhaps after a while, God's greetings will be bought and paid for in this land. That's what they did to Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Another thing: In order that the people's house may be the house of the people, the men of the people shall be in the midst of the people, and they shall be embraced, and they shall not be dishonored, and they shall be equal, and they shall embrace all. Is that a thing? Love is the one who gets close. Well, what about people's homes... there's iron barriers, scarecrows, and a wall of flesh, not a few meters, you can't get within hundreds of feet. It's supposed to go to the mosque of the palace, to the library, where everyone can just walk away; there's no such thing. A servant of God cannot pass before him without being investigated, without being investigated, without having his names written down. That's everybody's house! People's home, Chankaya Mansion.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0029par0280	Here, round it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0027par0281	On the day when those who suffer my lonely country, my beautiful country's unemployed, poor, poor business owner, employer will surely leave power, and the neutral President will again sit in the Chankaya Mansion, which is equal to 82 million citizens, and will be in its people. In a country, if you've got a "ah," if you've got workers, families whose children have been molested, women who have been murdered in the streets, and the chosen ones whose seats have been removed, there's no good in that budget. Say, "If you've got it, if you've got it, if you've done something bad, it's never going to be a good thing." I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0030par0285	The order belongs to Aydın MP Bkent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the presidential budget; in other words, we're discussing the budget of the palace; in other words, we're discussing the budget of the one-man regime. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, from now on, all my words are to the palace, not to the ready. All my words from here are from the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0032par0291	Are you talking to the building?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0292	I'm saying that the palace has drawn up a budget proposal, wants the approval of the National Assembly, wants our approval. I mean, he really wants people's approval, but why should this people trust you? Why should these people trust you? Look, when you set up this regime of one man, in the constitutional amendment, you came before the nation with all the resources and money of the state, there will be a separation of forces. You said, "The one man's regime has arrived." Whatever authority you have, you've gathered it in the hands of one man in the palace, in the hands of one man. What did you say? You're out, Parliament will be strong, there'll be a stronger Parliament. You said, you've made lawmakers a errand boy, MPs! The MPs, not just us, even the ruling lawmakers, complain that they can't reach the ministers.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0033par0293	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0032par0294	Don't speak for us.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0295	You've seen this shame, your complaint. Since you've seen this shame, you've invented the duty ministry because it has something to do with it, like a duty sergeant, a duty corporal. (HPP clapping in rows) Thank God...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0032par0296	It's a good app.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0297	Woe to this country if they fall asleep on watch. So the MPs will line up at the gate of the sentry minister, the tail; the tomato, pepper, eggplant tail, and now you'll form a parliamentary tail at the minister's door; that's what you understand from the prestigious parliament.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0034par0298	You had it the most.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0035par0299	That's not true! You're wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0300	If it was just that... it wouldn't be enough. Do the ministers have jurisdiction? Well, no. You've assigned a parallel minister to that minister in the palace, every minister in the palace has a parallel. The Minister has no authority. So the painting is that the valued MPs: the deputy minister cannot reach the minister, the sentry minister cannot cross the parallel in the palace. The Regent can't reach the minister, that's the painting.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0036par0302	Tell me about the parallel.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0303	What did you say, fellas? What did the palace say during the campaign? The coalitions will be over, he said. You've needed permanent coalitions, the country, every pre-election alliance politics has become mandatory. You know, is it over?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0037par0304	Why? He's more involved.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0305	Erdoğan came out, you all went out, you said: "This system is not the presidential regime, it's the government system." The nation will not honor the presidential regime, you said so because you knew it, you could call me President before the judge's ink dries. Now, I'm asking you, why would anyone trust you? If you love God, why should he trust you? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You said the economy would fly. What happened? Dollar's gone, dollar's gone. In the April 16 referendum, $3.73; 4,66 on June 24, 2018; 5.85 today; 50 per cent increased. We're going to break the back of the interest lobby. You said that, didn't you? We'll break the back of the interest lobby. You said you needed a loan shark, you turned the country into a loan shark's paradise.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0038par0308	They broke the citizen's back.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0309	Look, between 2003 and 2019, the government only paid $769 billion in interest inside. It's a hell of a lot worse out there. The interest on the outside is $173 billion. Can you imagine, 173 billion dollars?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0039par0310	How much was paid before 2003?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0311	So you mortgaged the future of unborn children to London bankers, to London bankers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What else should we say? You said the numbers will end. You said the increase from natural gas to electricity from 64 percent to 70 percent? The farmer needs the land, the land needs the farmer. Two Thracian-sized soils unplantable, two Thracian-sized soils. More than the population of Sivas have left farming; 651,000 farmers have left their crops. It was as if the country was looking for a man to work the land, as in the Imperial War, as in the Balkan War. That's what you brought home in 17 years. Which one should he believe? Why should these people trust you, brother? From 3600 additional indicators to EY, from unemployment to corruption, what promise did you keep? Take a look around. Now, did you say that you were fighting the war? You said you wanted to fight the fight, you set up a stock exchange. You've got the billionaire tourist face with the money to buy stocks from the lemonist, the orange man, the eggman, the eggman, the stockbroker! This is the painting that you created, you created this kind of Turkey. Oh, and then there's the other thing: the lawyers of the palace became speculators of the stock market, a stock market speculation was born. So you said fighting the parallel state, creating new parallel states, new congregations. Go to the courthouse corridors, go to the hospital corridors, go to the police corridors, go to the Interior Ministry corridors, go to the government corridors, go to the government corridors, each one of them is a community or the Hakolists or someone else has been divided. You sold this state to new parishes! This is the painting you brought. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now let the nation trust us. You say. Why should these people trust you? You said the national will, you kicked the chest in the election you lost in Istanbul, but the nation returned from Allah, and kicked you 806,000 times! After that, you knew what it was. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You said we're against the attacks. You staged the July 20 coup. You've created KHK hell in Turkey, KHK hell. You put democracy in a coffin and banged the last nail on it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0040par0320	On the 15th of July, we transfer them to Allah, to Allah.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0321	Well, we're already judging the fighters. You've given a vase to the Kenan Universe, which you call it, in your day, you have a grain, and you have a history.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0040par0322	Aren't you the one who called July 15th?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0031par0323	We were here on the 15th of July.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0041par0325	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0040par0326	Aren't you the one who called July 15th?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0042par0327	We're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not,
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0043par0328	We were here on the 15th of July. On the 15th of July, it's time to get on top of the tanks today. I'm the one who said it. (HPP clapping in rows) It's time for us and our friends here to rise above the witness. I'm the one who says it's time. Let go of July 15th. You didn't consume the legacy of July 15th, you didn't get enough of the money of the 15th of July martyrs, and you didn't get enough of the money of the 15th of July martyrs! You said, "I am the leader of the world." You said, "I am the leader of the world."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0044par0330	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0043par0331	You sent a spy after your own sons because he insulted his own president, and you put up with all the insults of Trump. An investigation into 26,000 people has been launched in a year or so, even at Abdulhamit's request, there were no more sleuths. It's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, for my last words of thanks, I'm done. Now, you come out and tell us: "Trust in this budget." What are we to trust? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll salute you, Mr. President. Trust what? What are we supposed to trust, guys? What are we supposed to trust? You've left nothing to trust. Think about it. It is the best thing you can do. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0045par0340	The order belongs to Mr. Gürsel Tekin Bey. Here you are, Mr. Gürsel Tekin.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0046par0343	Mr. President, as our lawmakers discuss the 2020 budget, I'd like to share with you what the view is in 2019. Because of a question I asked our Minister of Energy about natural gas as a congressman, Mr. Secretary said he's given the current natural gas below 59 per cent of the average market conditions. I wonder, if it had been given at the same price... in the city where I live now, in Istanbul, I'm afraid 463,000 households have lost their gas. Turkey has lost power to 3,300,000 households. Again, in the city where I live, in Istanbul, in 2018 and 2019, 520,000 households were cut off, unfortunately. Think of it this way, like the air and water that are our most human rights. Appreciate what it's like to cut water, mothers, fathers, and you. Again, I'd like to remind you of the 2001 economic crisis that brought you to power. In Ankara, there's a website shop, you know Sites. I'd like to remind the Ankara MPs in particular. I long for you to see what the view is on the site at your proper time. As an Istanbul MP, I went to Sites six times at a minimum. In 2001, during the coalition, there was not a single closed shop in Sites. Right now, unfortunately, half the sites have shut down. It's not just that the sites didn't shut down the shop, but also -- I'm sorry to say -- the government had to shut down. What does that mean, there were two IRS offices, one of which had to close, and the other half of the business is in debt and in executive clamps. Dear friends, it's a very dramatic sight again: especially in the Willowsüzütü, on one side the AK PARTI, near my own party the main opposition, just ahead of it, the Association of the Turkish Chamber of Rooms and Stock Exchanges, near very, very near the Chamber of Commerce and in the middle of 82 million of our citizens, the largest executive office in Turkey. I'm afraid there are 21,800,000 of our citizens in this executive office. In fact, when we looked at all of these landscapes... last week we had to stop by an executive agency with our friends, and when we looked at the page in the morning, last week, 28,850 executive files were unfortunately processed that day, so every day 28 thousand to 30,000 citizens face execution. When you look at all of these landscapes, the number of executive files during the 2001 economic crisis was 8 million, and now, the economy is very good, but the execution file is close to 22 million. Dear friends, our friends at unemployment have said a lot of things, but the bottom line is there's another problem with our country, which we pride ourselves on is that there are a lot of young people. If we look at TÜİK data, Turkey's fertility rate in 2001 is 2.30; its current fertility rate is 1.87. So, Mr. Erdogan, at every wedding, he probably says three children, four children. But when we look at the list, especially when we look at the list...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0047par0349	The rate of 1.99 fertility, Mr. Gürsel. According to the latest published figures, 1.99.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0046par0350	Well, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, but what was the date when you arrived, ma'am, if you look at it, when you look at the date you came in. Look, over there, I've got a list, year after year.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0047par0352	I've got one, too.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0046par0353	This also shows that in the next 15 years, the population will grow old and we can face the economic challenge. Second, you can see the declines are intense, especially when there are economic crises. Fertility rate has fallen below two, so despite all your encouragement, I'd like to remind you that the decline is very fatal. Of course, when you look not only here, for example, at Kayseri's NATO Street, you can look at Adana, Burma, İstanbul's Closed Market -- so you all know that Turkey is one of the most important parts of the Turkish economy -- wherever you go, you can see the closed shops in a dense way. You can see very clearly in the data that thousands of stores have closed down in the last year and a half. However, I've been really surprised to see the 2001 economic crisis, 1994, in all the crises before it, and I've also not been able to understand the silence of room presidents, such as trade rooms, heads of the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association -- representatives of the local trade room, which we call television organizations, which describe these issues. If you continue like this, dear heads of rooms, believe me, you won't get dues in a year, because you can show off those dues; the luxury cars under you, all of the places you live in, all of them with taxes paid by our tradesmen. I would like to say that in 2020, there was no budget for Turkey to respond to its expectations. I give you all my regards, my love, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0048par0359	The order belongs to Mersin MP Ali Mahir Aşır. Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0362	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've been promised to discuss a prestigious budget of $3 billion, 153 million. So, to understand this budget, let's give some examples of the previous Court reports, and let's see how this palace's budget was used. Our palace, for example, has 10 million liras to wear and the cost of weirdness. Dear lawmakers, we can afford 20,000 suits, 60,000 ties, 50,000 shirts. But in this country, a father who can't buy his kid six feet of pants is committing suicide, and that's your reputation!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0050par0366	That's not true.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0051par0367	That's not true.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0368	We bought four armored cars for the palace, paid 80 million. Let's put that aside, the only tire costs of the palace's vehicles are 2.2 million. These are from the Court reports. But in this country, hundreds of thousands of citizens can't afford rubber shoes for their children for $10.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0050par0369	Get out of here! Get out of here! Don't you live in Turkey?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0370	Now, our palace has 6.3 million food and drink expenses, your reputation. But in my country, a father who can't go to the market commits suicide, comes out of his pocket for $1.50, my esteemed lawmakers! Yes, I'm not just saying gift bags of our palace - 800,000 lira in empty boxes. But the pantry is empty, the closet is empty, the people's bag is empty. The most interesting thing is that the palace has $145,000 in feed costs. Well, I'm curious, what does this President feed? Lion, crocodile, hyena, what is he feeding? Then I thought, sir, organic, organic. So the egg, the chicken, the meat, the sheep, the milk, the cheese; the gentleman collects the food from the public's tax; your reputation!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0052par0374	Get out of here! It's not like it's going to come down that low.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0375	Yes, yes, you've got your level, we've seen your level in Istanbul, so shut up!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0052par0376	That's the level down. Down to the chicken, to the chicken.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0377	What's the monthly electricity bill for the palace? 850,000 liras. Gentlemen, between January 2019 and September, 3.5 million people have lost power and 4 brothers in Fatih are committing suicide because they can't pay the $ 607 electricity bill. And you're bragging about that budget. He's our President by the name of Rize. He's throwing 10 lira teas at the top of the public. He's... he's sipping his white tea at $4,500 a pound. Here's your reputation!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0053par0380	Everything's a lie!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0381	And here are the expenses that have not been passed by the Court. Like what? We gave Mr. President $1.5 million for the cutlery, so he could cut it good. We've given the President 1.4 million to kitchen utilities just this once. We paid 3.6 million for her ornaments. Our gentleman's palace furniture is 39 million. So, what's his latest trick? The floating palace. There's $57 million left on your yacht.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0054par0382	Look, you spilled the water, and now you're lying!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0383	It's obvious who told the lie. Look, I'm looking at your plates, AK; I'm looking at your sign, AK; I'm looking at your name, AK. I wish your face could be white in that alley! I wish. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Fuat Oktay, welcome. But why are you here?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0055par0387	Are you the one who's had the public's support for 18 years?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0388	I'm so curious, why are you here? Wouldn't it be for Recep Tayyip Erdogan who used and ate and drank to defend the budget of this palace?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0056par0389	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0390	I wonder if the President can't answer to the People's Assembly once a month when he's answering to Trump. We answer, we don't! We'll answer to the international community! Yeah, yeah, you know what?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0057par0393	Do you know where you are now? You're such a quack! You're being a quack!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0394	Look, you're incapable of explaining the minimum wage when the budget is being discussed. You're ashamed!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0058par0396	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0397	Mr. President, there's no problem, let them say what they want. See how you got here, how you got there.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0059par0398	You have to answer for laughing at a martyr's funeral first!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0049par0399	Mr. President and you, you have the Koran in your hand, the faith in your tongue, but now I see you all lying, looting...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0060par0400	Now that you have it, yours do better than we do.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0061par0401	Come on! Come on!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0062par0402	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0060par0403	Yours do better, yours. Who is studying at Eyüp Sultan?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0063par0404	Yes, that's you! This! You know what I'm sorry about? This reputation of yours, you call it, will be your greatest sin in the world! You're not ashamed, you're not bored, you answer to me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0064par0407	Come on! Watch your language!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0065par0408	You're a quack who laughs at a martyr's funeral.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0063par0409	Look, I...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0064par0410	Are you ashamed? Are you ashamed?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0063par0411	I have a certain sense of shame.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0066par0413	I see you at martyr funerals. Where the hell are you? Which separatist are you with?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0064par0414	You're rude!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0063par0415	I've got manners...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0067par0416	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Congressman, round it up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0068par0418	Mr. President, would you please warn the minister? It's not a good language.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0069par0419	Mr. President, what kind of a statement would that be, a congressman who doesn't fit the bench? It's not right!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0070par0420	Use a clean tongue.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0071par0421	I use a clean language.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0072par0422	It's not clean at all, not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0073par0423	Don't you have anything to say but slander, brother?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0071par0424	I'll give you my last words. When we get on that stand, the left side won't let us talk...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0074par0425	Tell me about the CHP, from the CHP!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0071par0426	Mr. Oztunç, Mr. Yavuzylmaz, you've been working on the filters at this thermal plant, but I regret it; there are four deputies here, put a filter on them, they're the ones who make the noise, the pollution, the noise.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0075par0428	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0076par0429	Mr. President, I want your word. I need to say a sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0077par0430	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0078par0431	What happened to CHP? Tell me about him!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0079par0432	Don't shout!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0080par0433	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0081par0434	Miss Özlem speaking, gentlemen... Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0082par0438	Mr. President, good work, all of us. Of course, it's a good idea to make an assessment after we've done each group's speech in principle, and that's what we talked about. The HDP Group has spoken, we haven't talked about it; but I'd like to make it clear that we have the right to answer: of course, when the speakers speak, it's very natural to say their criticism, but the way they use it is that we have an hour and a half hours to wait; in that amount of time such a provocative speech really bothers us, the General Assembly does agitate us. So, of course, there will be criticism, which is why there is a difference between political parties, but I think there should be a special sensitivity to style, and I would like you to remind me. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0083par0442	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0084par0445	Mr. President, as the negotiations are being held, Mr. Group Vice President, any time you see the right of the party, the president or his group to take a stand in defense, I have absolutely no say in that matter. It's obvious our friend on the stand is talking. If there's an insult on the stand, the president and his lawyers are already suing without skipping. I've heard nothing offensive in our friend's statements; I've asked for a report, so let's look at it together. But Mr. Group Vice President, right behind the Vice President, and Mr. Recep Special, known for canceling the Istanbul elections, we have heard that they interrupt the speaker's speech over and over again, and insult him with harsh insults, and use two words that have been registered by the law by the courts with compensation. It's our friend's appreciation for this, but I'd like to say that the 161st Article of the Interior Charter, the President, the Speaker of Parliament, is also a disciplinary offence for insulting lawmakers and demanding punishment, and I'd like to say that such an approach to the People's Office is an obligation to punish you, as well as to the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0083par0448	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0084par0449	I'm ending it, Mr. President. There is no change in our group's stance on the fine part, but the third joke of 161 . during the talks goes on to the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of Turkey, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Chair of the Grand National Assembly, the Vice President and the MP, who carried out their duties as president. I'd like to commend you for the temporary removal of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0085par0452	Sir, let's take a look at the transcripts, and let's see who's talking too hard.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0086par0453	Mr. President, one more sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0087par0454	Miss Miss Özlem, just a minute... I personally, as acting Speaker of the House...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0088par0456	In one hand, the Qur'an, in one hand, said, "I don't know," and insulted everyone. Did you check the report?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0089par0457	Who's talking to who?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0090par0458	You're a preacher, you're a preacher.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0088par0459	Your friend.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0089par0460	There's the hatibi's speech, there you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0088par0461	We'll see about that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0091par0462	Congressmans, Mr. Osman, listen to me for a minute. I personally find it absurd to say to a congressman, "Don't blame him, don't talk to him." But I honestly say, Mr. Recep, there's a delegation from Isparta waiting for you! (Laughter) You're always talking about your eyes. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0092par0467	Mr. President, the third joke in the 161st article reminded me of by Mr. Special is extremely important. We've felt the need to remind you of what's being said here in a lot of conversations before, and I want to say again: no insult to the MPs, no insult to the President. Sometimes words themselves are insults, sometimes metaphors. The beginning of the metaphors in Mr. Hatib's speeches is offensive. In that sense, we're all about criticism, but in style, with literature. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0091par0469	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0093par0470	Mr. President, I want you to report to the report that everyone's appreciation is not hearing their friends say words that I'm ashamed to repeat here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0092par0471	I hear everyone.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0094par0472	Critics or insults, brother!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0093par0473	I don't think I can really see such sensitivity and not hear those words when there's still an army of lawyers here who won't skip the slightest insult to the criticism.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0092par0474	We hear it all, Mr. Free, how do you know? You don't hear your own speaker.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0093par0475	Yeah, he says you're a quack, he says you're a quack.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0092par0476	I hear it, it's not nice, I'm warning you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0093par0477	No, but it's not a pleasant thing. It's okay if you say it under the record, there's no excuse for the obvious flaw.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0092par0478	I hear it, I warn it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0093par0479	If you're hearing this, tell the microphone.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0095par0480	Congressmans, the budget is being followed by the Turkish nation, and I do not find it right for them to exchange words, to speak against the court.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0093par0481	Mr. President, I don't think it's right either. He says it's not in the report. There's no excuse for an obvious flaw.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0096par0483	Mr. President, I'm not a man who speaks in secret, and I publicly say that I personally don't find the word charlatan true. I'll tell you that from here. But our congressman friend says that by taking responsibility for himself, it's his right. And I'll say I didn't find it right as a group vice president and as a friend. So there's no not hearing him or hearing him or anything like that. If he's telling the truth, it's true, it's wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0095par0484	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account Now it's time for Istanbul MP Yüksel Mansur Kıncç. Here you go, Congressman. [[Applause in CHP rows]] Mr. President, I have been promised the budgets of the National Intelligence Agency and the National Security Board. I salute the General Assembly. I salute our martyrs who died for a sacred mission, such as the defense of the homeland, and thank our veterans. I wish our security forces, who are currently in charge of their duties, including our Mehmet-duks, who are fighting against terror organizations in Syria. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament have increased their share of the security and defence institutions from the 2020 budget according to 2019, finding 141 billion by 13 per cent of the total budget. The Security General Directorate and Gendarme General Command have a staff count of about 500. Together with the Turkish Armed Forces, the head of the National Intelligence Agency, other security institutions, our staff in our security and defence institutions is close to 1 million. We're using a large manpower and a large budget for our security and defense. Congressmans, like other institutions of our country, our security institutions are not managed. Terror has threatened our national security, unemployment, social security, intervention in the High Election Council, our election security and democracy. In Istanbul, the killings of intelligence were carried out in a succession. Known in the last three months, the Uygur-based Samet Erkin, former Iranian intelligence officer Mesut Pehlevi murders, the suspicious death of British intelligence officer James Gustaf. These killings indicate that our country has become a crime scene where foreign intelligence organizations are facing hand-to-hand reckoning. What about our security and intelligence agencies? The government, which changed the structure of the National Security Council, did not organise the monitoring, co-ordination and control mission regarding the execution of the Council's decisions, including the Secretary General of the National Security Council, by which institutions or organisations will be carried out. While our institutions are being wiped out piece by piece, their capacity for accuracy and coordination determines the state's national security policies by unauthorized organizations such as the Presidential Security and Foreign Policy Board and SADAT. What one man understands about security is the safety of an arrow, the security of a convoy with their escorts when they arrive at his palace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, the basic security and intelligence institutions of the state, such as the presidency of MIT, have been made the backyard of power. The palace is pointing out that our country's security institutions are operating against the National Alliance. The palace is pointing out that the telephones of Republican People's Party President Kemal Kilicdaroğlu are being tapped. The palace points to the target, the CHP leader is being lynched at a martyr's funeral. In a similar way to the Star Intelligence Agency, in our country today, there is a model of palace intelligence. He considers himself the chief of communications at the palace as a threat to national security, media employees, news programmes, press and freedom of expression. Working as Penrimahsus, the Communication Presidency sets up newspaper headlines through WhatsApp groups, plugs media and media employees by monitoring Twitter, Facebook and other social media areas. Our region and country face instability, uncertainty, multidimensional tests and threats of foreign terrorist combatants. Security and intelligence institutions should be made manageable by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which monitors the security of our country, the security of our nation, and the safety of our citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0097par0539	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the only man in the palace, the nation in the courts, the execution, Mehmetçik is on edge across the border. Turkey can't be managed. Now, Turkey wants peace, wants trust. Turkey wants to be a sisterly, united, safe country. In the words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, "Unitedness and unity conquers everything but the song of destiny. " I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0095par0542	The order belongs to Müğla MP Burak Erbay. Here you go, Mr. Erbay.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0098par0545	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on the budget for 2020 of the chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the budget is not just a technical text written by numbers, it is a political text that reveals the true nature of power. The budget is an historical document that shows how power views citizens. When we look at the AKP budget of 2020, unfortunately, there is only one palace and its supporters, but there is no farmers, no tourists, no workers, no students, no women. There's no budget for citizens to buy bagels, but there's a budget for bagel palaces. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, Dianete has been earmarked for $11.5 billion in 2020. The budget of diabetes is more than 8 ministries. When we look at the Court reports on the chairmanship of Religious Affairs, it appears that in 2016, 2017 and 2018, a total of 306m euros was transferred to undetermined associations and foundations. Who are these associations, who are these foundations, why are money being transferred to them, and we ask them over and over again, but they are not answered. But we do know that among them are the foundations that have been raped by children, the foundations and associations that have been raised by the Republic and the anti-Ataturk people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, once again, when we looked at the Religious Affairs budget, we found millions of dollars were spent on mosques built abroad. The Moscow Central Mosque, 170 million dollars; the American Diet Center, $100 million; the Bishkek Mosque, $35 million; the Cambridge Mosque of England, $30 million. These mosques aren't mosques we know them to be. In these mosques, water and ground were heated with heat from solar energy, and when oxygen was low inside, fresh air produced from hot air was given in. This list goes on and on. But let Uncle Ahmet in the village of Mughlah continue to take abdest with cold water in the freezing air. These mosques add up to $500 million. Oh, my God! Is it right to build mosques with families of martyrs who lost their lives for this land, living in plasterless, paintless slums, freezing to death in the trash, while our people freeze to death? President Tank says he needs $50 million to modernise the Palet Factory, and gives it to the Qatars, but the Diet makes a mosque for $500 million. Can you digest that? When we looked at the recent expenditures of the President of Religious Affairs, we found another interesting subject: the Dianet Youth Sports Club, which operates in majors such as football, wrestling, table tennis, badminton, but is now closed. This sports club is an act for not paying the transfer fee for the volleyball player he transferred. Why does religion build a sports club? Where did the budget come from? There are allegations that sports is being transferred from Toto to this club and that these funds are being used in other areas. Are these claims true? Dear lawmakers, our religion commands justice, justice and justice. Our religion is a religion that embraces tolerance and understanding. NASA, which explores space, has around 20,000 personnel, but the Dianet has about 120,000 personnel. So, I'd like to ask, how many of these personnel are our citizens of Alevi? How much does the religious budget for our fellow citizens of this country, taxing, going to the army, Alevi citizens? Despite the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Judges to consider the houses of worship, why don't you accept the House of Alevis, whose tax you have received? Dear lawmakers, our religion is a religion against waste, against luxury, against vanity. Our holy religion is a religion that upholds right, law, and justice. Our religion is a religion that defends the right of a servant. But unfortunately. It's a budget of waste, it's a Rant budget, it's a side budget. (HPP) That's why this budget is a restricted budget.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0099par0555	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0098par0556	If we can live freely in this land today, if we pray and fast, if the oppressed can be read in mosques, we must remember that it is because of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades. By ignoring this, however, it is not possible for us to approve the budget of a Dianet that does not even mention the name of the founder of the Grand Leader Ataturk. We're against the budget of the Dianet, which transfers millions of dollars to rival republican associations, foundations, cults. We're against the budget of Dianetin, who humiliates women at a public spot that he publishes, spending $2955,000 on. On November 9th, the president says we are against the budget of Dianetin, who visited an anti-Republic-hatred lunatic, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0100par0561	In order to speak, Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakvert.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0101par0563	Mr. President, Mr. Court, esteemed MPs, I salute you all. Now, the State Archives Presidency, which has been growing in Anatolia for centuries, has been handed over to the palace last year, along with many institutions, to the memory of the state tradition. Now, those Ottoman archives found in Babıali have been moved to the Paperhouse, combined with the republic's archives in Ankara. During the time of this move, experts opposed you: the paperhouse is not suitable for you; this is a creek bed; this is a damp and damp place; don't move here. But you didn't listen. You did what you knew, you read what you knew. A year passed, and these precious documents began to deteriorate in humidity and humidity, and as a precaution, you spent $13,700,000 to get rid of moisture and moisture. It's only been a year, guys, and it's a creek bed, so we're gonna have to come up with the same results again, and then we're gonna have to pay the same money again. Isn't it a shame about this citizen's money? It's a shame, isn't it, fellas? Now, Mr. President, at the time of the move, he said, "These documents are as valuable and blessed as our flag." We agree, but right after the move, you started restoring that historical building in Babıali, and we thought, "You're going to build a museum or something, but it's starting to be used as a hotel. That's a shame, that's a shame. Now, we, of course, know your value to our history, to our culture, and to our ancestors from Solomon Shah Temple, so we were not surprised. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, please don't refute nearly 100 million historical documents in the creek beds. Like generations before us, we have to carry these documents to the next generation. That is exactly why we owe it to Asia Minor and history to protect these documents. Those who strive to change history for their political interests will surely, surely, take their place in the political dump of history. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yeah, the archives don't forget, guys. Now, we've looked at the past history, and we need to look at the 17-year archives of our recent AK PARTY. Now, as soon as you came in, you started selling factories, resetting public interest in 268 institutions. TEKEL, Eti Mine, sugar factories, Sumerbank, TUPRAS, PETCIM, Erdemir, TÜRK TELEKOM, you've sold many more. You took the Army-owned Tank Palet Factory to a foreign country, and I'm not saying you sold it, you made a run for it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, valuable lawmakers, in 2002, there were 98,000 people in prisons when you arrived, there are 270,000 today. Sexual assault crimes have increased 14 times in your time, 14 times. And the executive files are up from 7 million to 21 million, and they don't fit in the archives anymore. The number of unemployed is 5 million, but we all know it's officially over 8 million. You can be sure that these people will soon put your 17-year-old archives in front of you. We're budgeting today, but we all know it's not us, it's from the palace. There are no college graduates in this budget who can't pay their loans, no pensioners, no minimum wage, no employees, no farmers, no workers; unfortunately, you have fellow businessmen in this budget, and in this budget -- my friends told me -- you have a bagel palace. Guys, think about it, you sell factories, you sell factories, but you have to buy a bagel palace to save an ally company, you have to take over. We know you had a summer palace, you had a winter palace, you had a flying palace, now you have a bagel palace. Good luck, guys. Now, as the poet said, the thrones will fall, and on the day when the wrongs will be opened, and there will be those who stay behind until tomorrow. My respects.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0102par0578	In order, it belongs to İstanbul MP Özgür Karabat. Mr. Karabat, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0103par0581	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In summary of a general assessment of the budget, dear friends, I'd like to say that when we look at the budget, when we analyze the numbers, the result is that we're at a dead end. This budget is a budget that does not reduce unemployment, prevent poverty, victimize citizens, please the palace and ally, dear friends. The bottom line is it's that simple and clear. But despite all that, I would advise our fellow citizens to never despair, because the poet who says, "Our path has entered a dead end." He says, "It does not pass, neither our right nor our left." This country has opposition to power like lions, and the people will one day come to power, so our citizens will never despair. Dear friends, the poet continues to say: "We live in a land where men have stopped crying and committed suicide and are sad to follow. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about the budget of the national palaces, but I'd like to remind you of a brief history of the national palaces. In 1923, the republic is established, and all Ottoman estates become the property of the republic; in 1925 Mustafa Kemal Ataturk protects these properties; in 1933, these properties, the National Palaces, are handed over to us; in 1925, they are transferred to us on behalf of the nation. What we've come to now is the point of reassigning these properties to the palace after a hundred years, dear friends. To sum up where our democracy is coming from, it's important to show understanding. It goes on to say that the president and I have reached a summit in England, Germany, France and myself. Now that's understanding. Well, dear friends, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who entrusted the National Palaces to Parliament, says: "My humble body will surely be dust someday, but the Republic of Turkey will have its share forever," he says. That's the difference in understanding. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, let's move on, dear friends, from 1 billion 648 thousand to 2.3 billion, and then up to 4 billion, so we're going twice as high as three. The budget for the national palaces goes up 22 million, 2019, 120 million, 5 times; 157 million for 2020, 7 times. Dear friends, when it comes to your own budgets, it's 7 times 10 times more than 700 percent, but when it comes to citizens, inflation is 13 percent? You don't save credit when it comes to you, you don't have dignity when it comes to citizens, do you? Is that what we think, dear friends? That's the painting. Tofiq Fikret, who saw this painting, says that when the powers of the Parliament-i-Mebusa are restricted, just like us, eat, masters, eat. Eat this insatiable table, until it is full, and its precious friends, as Tofik Fikret said, one day it will come to an end. Now I'm going to continue with the matter of reputation. Dear friends, is it a respectable business to have Bilal Erdogan's friend in charge of the national palaces? They drank at the mosques. Is it a respectable business to have someone tell a lie? Is it a respectable business to have someone in charge of the national palaces investigating the tender of the president of this House? If you care so much about confidence, why are you putting this friend in charge of the national palaces, dear friends? Despite all that, we see that there is an understanding that replaces the nation. Of course we have a flying palace, we have a runaway palace, we have a floating palace, we have a palace, we have a palace, we have a bagel palace. I swear to God, dear friends, you've made people's reputation lower than bagel money, and I want you to know that it's worse than bagel money. Dear friends, I continue with the matter of reputation. Who's getting the bids on the national palaces? It's a Swiss company called the SICPA. Do you know that we work with a foreign company, even in a place called the National Palaces? That's what we're dealing with. We're locals, where are we nationals, I'd like to ask you, dear brothers and sisters. Dear friends, you haven't solved the problems of employees in the national palaces, but instead you're creating the Science and Evaluation Board and the advisory committees; their fees are 9,7500. It is our duty to defend the rights of these workers, and it is our duty to remind you of that. I'd like to say that this idea of a palace brings us to a point where our democracy is being damaged, dear friends, and where we come from, there are trustees. We're talking central budget here. Now I'm curious about one thing: there are about 28 trustees, and I can't keep track of them.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0104par0593	That's 31.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0103par0594	He's 31.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0105par0595	Pack it up, Mr. Karabat.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0103par0596	Dear friends, we've been trying to do some research on the budget of these trustee municipalities, and we haven't been able to access their budget in a week. Sometimes councilmen, sometimes councilmen, don't know about the budget. Isn't the budget right for everyone? Shouldn't a citizen in Diyarbakır, in Van Özakça, in Mardin know and know the local government budget? Why can't we have this information? We also feel it is our right to ask the supporters how these budgets were made and how the budget lost in the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality was tried to be removed from Diyarbakır, Van. And as a result, dear friends, I'd like to say, yes, I've said that our path is at an impasse, not to be the court sycophant, but to be the people's clown. I want to say that Ozan Musa Eroglu sang: I passed through the world, Life is a breath deep inside, Look at the circle of fortune, You can see the end of the road. The reaper himself comes, Neither agha nor a master, The numbered days are spent, You can see the end of the road. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0106par0608	The order belongs to İstanbul MP Kadir Enis Berberoğlu. Here you go, Barberoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0107par0611	Mr. President, I would like to present the esteemed MPs to discuss the presidency's President of Communications. However, I'm going to have to open three personal parentheses before we start talking. First of all, I'd like to start by saying that I don't think it's right that the appointed ones, who don't have the right to answer, are being done by the chosen ones, and that I'm going to keep my criticisms in that box. Second: I would like to remind you again that there is a logic to my being chosen by the group to speak at the communications presidency. That's why I'm a retired journalist who was dealt with on the other side of the table by people who did this during about six presidential periods. So I have to claim that I know this job better than the other way around. And thirdly, I'm personally connected to this presidency in the direction of the press card. So that's where I carried it for thirty or so years, and then the badge of honor became a press card, where it was printed, where it was delivered. I didn't open these parentheses for nothing, so let's start at the end and start at the easiest. Personally, as I said, even though I was the honor card pusher, I didn't apply here when it was renewed. I'll tell you a little complaint, my system: why, for years, even those who had nothing to do with it, have described it as a yellow press card, just the identity of a journalist, no other privileges, no carry-on card, so it's hard to understand why they made it sky blue. Let's just say it's one of the requirements of the new Turkey. If I did, I don't know if I'd be given it or not, because of the lawsuits against me. My wife, 25 years old journalist, applied and got it. I thought that my thousands of pages of archives, hours of television programs, would be enough to explain that I'm a retired journalist. I thought I didn't need the protection or grace or approval of such a presidency to confirm my journalism. Now, let's move on to the communication part: the communication part, unfortunately, is not personal, but institutionally compromised. Let me point out that the simplest description of the President of Communication is to transmit messages from his place of residence, make sure it's delivered correctly, eliminate misunderstandings. In such a situation, who do you communicate with? This question is of great importance. A party president or the president? By eliminating the distinction between these two, we actually disbanded the presidency of communications, with a constitutional amendment, as soon as it passed through this House. (HPP) Because one is communication for the party, the other is communication for the Republic of Turkey, much larger than that party. There's no debate about legitimacy here, I don't want to go in there; on the contrary, I'm having this conversation with the notion that the President's verbs and words should be distributed equally to the entire population, understood, judged at its proper time, and when it comes to it should be approved and settled behind it. And I'm going from there right now to this: How am I supposed to understand that televisions with high circulation in Turkey are banned from following the President? Who's being punished now? Wait a minute, we need to talk about this here. The voters and the audience who want to follow the president's words, his words, his actions, from those TVs, those newspapers, or his employees, or those TVs and newspapers? If we don't go to the distinction of this, we'll be breaking the basic rule of communication. And it's not very new, I'm afraid, for years the Joint Chiefs have been implementing it, and I was against it at that time, and the nonbeliever would look at my articles in the newspaper, and I'm against it today. Accreditation is an insult to your choice, an insult to the reader, an insult to the audience, nothing more. Thank you for your kindness in listening to me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0108par0619	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0107par0620	It's just one sentence, that's all. Thank you very much, Mr. President. And if you're thinking of taking care of the President, I suggest you make sure the road is clear for everyone. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0109par0624	In turn, it belongs to İzmir MP Atila Sertel. Here you go, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0110par0627	Mr. President, I salute you. My colleague Enis Berberoglu, who spoke before me, made one thing very clear and clear about the press cards. I ask Mr. Fuat Oktay to listen to me very carefully, and I would like to express that we are prepared to give him information in a common way, and at the point of press and relations, at the point of communication, our professional savings, regardless of the journalistic origin of whichever party is in the House. Dear friends, after July 15th, the press card of 3,804 journalists has been cancelled for one reason or another. Now some of them are said to be connected to different organizations, and some of them have been in prison, and we have friends like Enis Berberoglu who are at the point of acquittal. But I'm curious about one thing, and I'm asking, is canceling the identity of journalists the job of communications president? I wonder if the cancellation of a card like this will ever go away until we cancel our friends' birth certificate because journalism is a profession and that's the promotion card of the profession. If those guys didn't have anything to do with it, there's nothing as natural as carrying that card. So at the point of canceling the population papers, would something like that happen? You could say, "Well, then, isn't it ridiculous to cancel the identity of journalists?" Who decides to cancel the journalists' cards? You're a journalist. Or you're not. Who has the authority to say that? I mean, who are those people? And I ask them, who are you to cancel journalists' cards? Look, there are 3,850 members of the Association of Journalists of Turkey, 900 members of the İzmir Journalists Association, 1,450 members of the Union of Journalists of Turkey, 20,000 members of the Federation of Journalists of Turkey -- along with 78 communities -- the Ankara Journalists Association has 2,000 members. In the old days, occupational organisations were gathering and making decisions about press cards. Now, they canceled some of our friends' press cards, called them "the leftist, the Ataturkist, the revolutionary, the patriotic people's cards." Now, what they're offering as the basis for the cancellation is..... but, in fact, there are people on board who have canceled the card who have gone to Pennsylvania, who have knelt down, who have kissed hands. What a diet of sauerkraut! There was a businessman in Izmir, and Plato was the founder of the honorable rule. This person founded a newspaper called Last Minute. Among the partners of this newspaper was a man named Gökhan Karaca. Metin gave Kocakurt this right. Plato Respected, Metin Kocakurt, Mehmet Tahir Kocakurt, Selçuk Karakaya, and Kalil Seneh Kırbaş were the directors of this newspaper. Let me explain, friends: Mehmet Tahir Kocakurt's brother is one of the world's imams, and one of the owners of this newspaper is Barbaros Kocakurt, who is on the run today. The owner of this newspaper was appointed by the President and the President of the Aegean University and his escape -- but then he was suspended from duty -- Cüneyt Hepcoshkun and escaped. After his escape, the Bilal Respected Mosque, which he laid the foundation for, opened the mosque, which was built by the people and cost $30 million.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0111par0633	Lies, lies, lies. You're slandering me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0110par0634	He opened it, I...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0111par0635	He did, but... you're lying.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0110par0636	Brother, read the... Look, it's not a lie. Search Metin Kocakurt, investigate Cüneyt Hepcoshkun, search for others, and you will see them all. Now, under the name of this government operation, these are the ones who testified and closed the newspapers. Reporters working at the newspaper's closed-off newspaper have worked in the newspaper. They can't get their press cards. It's unconscionable. He doesn't know that the newspaper is a journalist, he doesn't know that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0112par0640	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0110par0641	After July 15th, everything came out, and these fugitives, these GERPs... A friend yells, I don't know what his relationship is.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0113par0643	That's how you always slander me. You're lying to everyone.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0110par0644	I don't slander, I don't know what a relationship is. I mean, I don't know.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0113par0645	Your job is abuse.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0110par0646	I don't know what your relationship is, bro. You look it up yourself, talk it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0113par0647	You are.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0110par0648	Now, these people, the fugitives, are on trial, and when these fugitives are convicted in front of the law, when you're on the run, you cancel the press cards of his newspaper's employees, but you don't see and judge the real ones and you don't judge the mosque that the partners of the fugitives have built, you're deceiving him, and you're opening the President by cheating him. I've never really lied in my life, and he says that Bilal Respected Mosque and its owner are judges, not me, and there are investigations. That's why I transferred these from here. If Mr. Oktay calls, I'll give you the information. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0114par0651	It belongs to İzmir MP Bedri Serter Bey. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0115par0654	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the defence industry budget. I salute the High Council. Now, I'd like to give you a free speech and take you on a journey back to the past when you've got all the money in the world. I know you're not used to it, but don't worry, it's free to listen. As male surrogates, we have been very proud and proud to describe our military duties over the years as if it were that day, don't we, my representatives? And now you've finished by calling what's worth it, what's not, a mandatory military service. You've finished our memories, our history, and you've separated our children from those who have money and don't. It's free to split! For all of our senior military personnel, the same pleasure was applied, and you spent it for free with the stories of the coup you created. Besides, those soldiers were our ancestors, trained on world standards in defense, assault, technical knowledge, sociology, technology. There are also no other universities or educational institutions where these trainings are provided. Aren't we, MPs? Where have these wonderful schools gone? The harp schools, the Tower Military High School, the Maltepe Military High School, our beautiful school in Heybeliada? They're gone for free. We've seen live with the finals on July 15, 2016, where your 17 years of power and your junior partners have brought our military, haven't we, lawmakers? I'd like to remind you of some of the important points in our recent history of the defence industry we discussed. It was the cosmic room where we questioned our national security. Remember why we opened it, what was done, what was taken. Those were the days you did everything for free with your partnership back then. What happened next? The rope has escaped, and it has gone to the destruction of the research and development system, which has shaped the future of the countries and is the basis of the success of the defence industry up to you. Who now holds the lifebloods of our defense industry, ASELSAN, AVELSAN, and our companies that have developed, strengthened, and signed many projects within the National Department of Defense? You delivered the institutions of our defense industry for free, of course. There's no need to look too far for that answer. There was only one civilian suspect in the sledgehammer case, which is Omar Faruk Yura Yarman, who said that in 2003 our goal was to turn our turnovers into $1 billion in ten years and enter the first five IT companies in Europe. The day he was arrested for attempted coup, we already guessed who you were handing over these institutions to. The defense's brain failed years ago, for free. We're hearing today that ASELSAN and AVELSAN have been handed over to a foundation called the Hayra Invite Foundation. Mr. Inspiration Bey, our Tekirdağ MP, has files; our desired, curious MPs can get information from them for free. We had a Turkish Armed Forces who blocked the steps that the Black Sea, which was once Russia's soft belly, tried to take to the Black Sea, that bothered the United States with its attitude, not allowing the United States to attempt to penetrate the Black Sea. You remember, don't you, Councillors? You wasted our military for free. Again, a free reminder: those were the days when our precious military minds ended our defense industry's dependency and took steps to make TSK a major exporter, but in those days, you left valuable personnel in our military to rot by prosecutoring Ergenekon and Balyoz coups. You caused the brain death of our military. You've even wasted living legends for free. So, how did you get the Turkish Armed Forces Powering Foundation from the republic to today to protect all military values? You've also linked the administration of this foundation to the palace. So, what structure did you give all the cash and the same values to control for free? Where did you spend your savings here, the defense industry or the defense industry? Or is it that the help was too much, and that's why everything else is going after you for free? [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're welcome, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0116par0663	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0115par0664	At this point, our president himself admitted that there was no investment in the defence industry. Mr. Erdogan himself said last week that an important factory of Turkish defence industry, a tank and palette factory, was being thrown out. For the Qatars, this factory has been taken for free again. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll leave this to the comments of the esteemed members of our High Council for free! Now, here's a short poem from the great master, Orhan Veli. We live for free, for free; The air is free, the cloud is free; Rain, mud, free; Outside the automobiles, The doors to the cinemas, Freedom for the price of a head, We live for free, it's free. For 17 years, all of Turkey's resources for you and your followers have been free, but to our nation, the air and the cloud are both tax and money. My respects.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0117par0683	It belongs to İzmir MP Selin Sayek Böke. Here you go, Mr. Böke.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0118par0686	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. I'm going to have a discussion today about the strategy and budget presidency. What is really the strategy of this budget? Bottom line: there are three S's in budget strategy: success, bagels and palace. According to the word "spell," "showing" is a situation that will attract attention. It has been declared by the president as a strategy of the economy from the top. Well, then the question is, who does this budget want to show off to, who does it interest, who does it want to score for? The answer is clear: to the rankers. On the one hand, the gantist wants to hit the contractors, but on the other hand, he wants to make a splash at foreign financial centers, which your government describes as the fiscal lobby, the external forces that attacked us. The basis of the budget strategy -- you haven't heard the wrong -- is that the government calls out to its supposed enemies, calls out to it, calls out to it, calls out to it, calls out to it, says, "Look nice to foreigners who lend money to Turkey, and try to make a splash for them." He says we're going to be balanced in the power program. He says, "I'm going to give more." He says, "We've given more today, we'll give more tomorrow." Cari means too much, roughly, more export revenues than our imports. So it's important to ask, all of a sudden, did we give this excess because our exports have increased because efficiency has increased, because the value of our exports has increased? Or did we give you something that we didn't import because we didn't make it because it was dependent on imports? We gave it to him because we stopped producing it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] That's exactly why no one who knows the economy, no one with a conscience, would be proud or even ashamed to say it, because it's overbalanced. That's too much, not to produce; that's too much, too much unemployment; that's too much, too much poverty. In this case, balancing is not something the public would want, but in this case, balancing is important to foreigners that we're making a splash. For those who have lent money to Turkey for years, we'll get it back one day, for those who say, oh, ha. For those who say, as you call it, foreign enemies and interest lobbyists. That's why it's obvious who you're trying to look good for. Because you say: "We call it equation, but we condemn the people to unemployment, we make the country poor; but we will pay you that interest, no matter what the cost, because you have paid about 500 billion dollars for interest during your rule. In this budget, $139 billion will be paid in interest to those of the foreign enemy lobbyists. So the power translation of making a splash on the lender, the rantter, is that: "Disciplin, balancing, changing." (CHP turns) You're looking for a splash, you're not changing, you're showing windows, you're covering up the truth, you're blinding the truth, you're calling them terrorists. On the other hand, there's a simmittist in the budget. It's a word that sums up the choice of power to save who in the failing economy. People's ranta also embody the journey to power because the people who did the tea and bagels before they came to power are trying to save bagels today with the money they've taken from the people. And that's what people do, who are profitable and who have privatized all the companies that are strategic. Budgets, rants, side budgets. You'll give $18.9 billion to the contractors in public-special cooperation. You're going to transfer $7.9 billion to all the contractors who build bridges that we don't cross, that we don't use. So, in short, what's in there, what's out there, no Ryan forgotten, but who's forgotten? The unemployed forgotten, the COBI forgotten, the laborer forgotten, the manufacturer's powers forgotten, the people completely ignored. However, Turkey needs a strong social state, a productive and productive public. We'll do it, we're ready, we've got his prescription, obviously. (Applause from CHP rows) Proliferation will take the place of ranking. Public resources will be transferred to the manufacturers and workers, not to the Rants. The fees will be protected in the face of inflation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0119par0694	Here, clean it up, Mr. Böke.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0118par0695	In our power, not only will there be inflation, but there will also be laborers in need of prosperity. The minimum wage will not be taxed, but our government will publish the tax paradise list on the first day. Containment will replace the other one. The workers will use unemployment insurance, the family insurance will be a public guarantee. The hours will be humanized. A right-based social state will be established, guaranteed working life. Turkey will have a sense of sustainability, a budgetary right, freedom, law, not a legacy of power. I'm not saying you don't do it, I'm not saying you can't do it, you don't do it, you don't do it, you prefer not to. But we're going to do it, we're going to give this community back its breath and the colors that this community deserves. We're going to make the purple economy with the woman in it, the white economy with transparency in it, the blue and green economy with the future in it, an economy that we breathe through each other.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0119par0697	I'll make a promise to our group presidents. Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0120par0701	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, it doesn't taste good when you talk backwards, but I'm going to say it to my notes, and, naturally, I'm going to say it collectively. Now, of course, in the general concept of our fellow MPs in the HDP, the two speakers that I'm listening to now had this. It means something like this, so the biggest criminal involved in the coup is referred to as the AK PARTY. The expression was, "The AK PARTY collects material for the impact dynamics." So that's what you're saying. It's a party that he's trying to do -- let it be -- that's pleased with the coup, that prefers to take a hit, and that's even a waste of a theory, and you're insisting on it. It's really a waste of time because that's what more than one congressman of yours means. Of course, we strongly deny it. AK PARTY is a hit-and-run party. Either our idea is an idea that has come to this day by fighting the blows. When we look at it like this, for the first time, the EC PARTY has managed to stop a coup in Turkey along with our President. This is the first time in the history of democracy in Turkey, and this has been the result of a growing sense of democracy with the EC PARTY, as well as a awareness of our citizens and a resistance that they showed with their bare hands, and, of course, with our institutions and our political parties here that night. Therefore, I regret that such a thing was said during these budget talks. Another, of course, is an important bet, a bet on Kurdish hostility. We've talked here many times, and the truth is, it's repeated so much that I think you're enjoying using that expression. Instead of having a solution, you think the preservation of this situation will be more profitable for you, so you claim that there is no such thing in Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0121par0707	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0120par0708	We're telling you: not just you, but all political parties have Kurdish MPs, you're not just representatives of the Kurds, according to the Constitution. When looked at in this sense, Turkey has become pronounced with the AK PARTY, at first. When they leave, they will be able to speak in their own language, and they will not speak in their own language.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0122par0709	You've been gracious!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0120par0710	Sir?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0123par0711	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0120par0712	Is there a problem, I can't hear you? Is there something wrong with my microphone, guys? In fact, the word "Kurt" was liberated with the AK PARTY. Aren't there people in this system who have been persecuted since the beginning of the Republic of Turkey? There is. Kurds have been persecuted, religiouss have been persecuted, and we accept that. In that sense, we agree. I mean, I don't mean the AK PARTY, the politicians have to accept it. Our politics have already been formed to eliminate this persecution, and we have worked hard and we continue to show it with all of our beings, with all of our strength, with all of our hard work. But you're doing politics through a different sense of Kurdish hostility that you're building inside yourself, and while you're doing it, nothing... you're telling us here as a representative of democracy, a name that the people call a baby killer. So, when you give me your examples of democracy, you're going to be able to...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0124par0715	Set up a list of names if you'd like, and decide who we should call.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0120par0716	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0125par0717	Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0120par0718	I'm not talking about your address, I'm talking about the citizen's address. The name of the baby killer is the self - control of the citizen who made this statement, the people who live in the area itself. So I think it's good to at least remember the improvements, the right jobs, with the AK PARTY. Which one should we count? You're counting one by one, and it doesn't make any sense, because, as I said, you'd rather feed on this terroristic language that you've already built yourself. That's how I wrap up what I'm about to say. Thank you, but of course, I have something to say about our CHP MPs. What method shall we follow, Mr. President? Maybe our friends would like to answer, I don't know.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0125par0720	As a principle, I'd like to make a five-minute assessment of our Group Presidents...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0120par0721	That's five minutes too little, because those five minutes were for the HDP, and we have something to say about CHP.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0126par0722	Do you have to answer everything?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0125par0723	After all, the band...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0127par0724	It may be that the HDP takes the word, and then...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0128par0725	If there is an answer, let's finish it, and then I'd like to express what I have to say about CHP.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0127par0726	Mr. President, by the way, before we begin...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0129par0727	Free Bey has a warning.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0127par0729	I don't think it's acceptable for the ruling party or the first party's Deputy Group President to be talking about a disrespectful presidency against the Parliament to not follow the session with laughter, pushing each other, laughing and laughing while the court bureaucracy in the back is disturbing everyone.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0129par0730	Guys, about you...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0130par0731	This is not a palace, gentlemen!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0131par0732	They laugh all the time, they talk in the back, they laugh.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0132par0733	We've been sending warnings about this a couple of times. It's not acceptable. So if you're going to come here, you're going to sit down, the red tape in the back, laughing at each other... there's no such thing. Let's warn our friends... let's get them out of here, let's get some other friends out here who can do the job.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0133par0734	Okay, thank you. Mr. Hakký Bey, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0134par0736	If only we'd taken our word, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0133par0737	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0134par0739	Sir, with all the talks as serious as possible and as serious as we can, I personally follow them all by taking notes, and we're interviewing our friends at the points that we need to, in response, talk to our friends about making notes.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0135par0740	Don't let it get to you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0133par0741	He didn't tell you, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0134par0742	Therefore, there can be no lack of seriousness here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0136par0743	Mr. Vice President, the friends behind you have been talking to each other for minutes, laughing, hitting each other in front of you, in a way that everyone will see and everyone will be uncomfortable. So if you approve of the records, get out and defend them. I'd say something in the front row. As a principle, I don't warn bureaucracy myself. I've applied to the Presidential Court, and I've called a friend of the President of the Laws and Decisions, and they've been warned by the Kavas, but they don't care; they're probably just being instructed by you. Please, let them treat the House with respect.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0133par0745	Mr. Free, thank you. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0137par0747	Our friends are doing their job. No conversation is involved, no instructions are involved; they do their job.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0138par0748	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0139par0749	They're not doing their job. How can we accept that? No, they're laughing! There's no such thing! They don't do their jobs. Ask away, ask away!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0140par0750	Laughing is not part of the job, Mr. President, and laughter is not part of the job.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0139par0751	I need a break, sir. Let's talk about this. Let's take a break. Let's talk. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0140par0752	Mr. President, laughing isn't part of the job, it's not part of the joke; they have to listen here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0139par0753	In plain sight... what should we believe in what you're saying? If you do so, what do we believe in?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0141par0754	Mr. Free, sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0139par0755	If you do so, what should we believe?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0142par0756	It's not right to use words here when you can take these warnings and warn your friends.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0139par0757	There's no such thing! One sentence. Friends will be more careful. You say, it's over. Respect for this assembly requires that friends be more careful. You will say so.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0143par0758	Guys, we're following you here, and we're following you seriously.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0142par0759	Mr. President, would you excuse me for five minutes? Mr. President, I beg you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0139par0760	Look, ask the President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0143par0761	We're extremely careful.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0144par0762	Mr. Free...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0145par0763	Mr. President, budget talks are requested to be sabotaged, please proceed.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0146par0764	The president saw it, and he's right. Friends will be more careful. You can't say anything else. It's a plain lie, we can see it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0147par0765	Mr. President, there's no need to insult a reminder. You remind me, it's okay, but you're turning it into an insult.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0148par0768	Mr. Free, well, thank you very much. The rules are given to them, as Turkey's Grand National Assembly office is 26/12/2016 and 74882, as participants in the work of the Grand National Assembly General Assembly of Turkey are given to them. As such, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Lütfü Bey has warned the same thing; let friends be more careful.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0149par0770	We've all seen it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0150par0771	You may not realize it, I respect it, but it's possible.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0149par0772	Mr. President, well, we trust your justice.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0151par0773	Thank you, thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0149par0774	When I pointed and sent word, was the image you were looking at something that the bureaucracy could have done?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0151par0775	The necessary warning has been issued. Thank you very much. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0152par0780	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to go over a few things, and I'm going to start with the trustees, because the issue of Kurdish hostility is about trustees in the first degree, in the way that we're discussing today. Look, three places were assigned again this morning -- one in Varto County, one in Bulanik County, and one in Bulanık County, Erentepe County -- and the mayors of the municipality were taken into custody. Now, we've said this many times, and let's say again, sir, that trustee appointments are premeditated extortion, extortion. Now, this is like a premeditated murder, so it's premeditated. Now, what's the plan? I'll tell you this: look, first of all, this plan wasn't made yesterday, it's been done before. The first step of the plan -- the interior minister came here, it was discussed -- was appointed by the Home Secretary before the March 31st elections; he says that the districts of East and Southeastern Anatolia were appointed by experienced and successful subsidiaries. The Minister of Interior had placed his own men and trustees in the counties before March 31st because he was planning to appoint trustees there. Deliberate extortion! Two: Your president has repeatedly said that there will be trustees in the election campaigns. Deliberate extortion! Three: After the elections, the Interior Minister said in a speech he made in Tripoli: "Let's take over the district with trustees for another five years; there will be no HDP municipality."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0153par0786	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0152par0787	It's not over. As of April 1st, one day after March 31st, Diyarbakır, Mardin and Van Governors applied to the Ministry of Interior, Diyarbakır, Mardin and Van Metropolitans -- our co-Mayors have not yet received their seats -- to the trustees' appointment. Deliberate extortion! That's not enough, you sent an inspector to Mardin. Those inspectors filed a report, and the report said that the model of the mardin should be implemented. What is it they suggest is the model of the mardin? The people will elect the municipal councils, appoint the mayors as presidents. Deliberate extortion! Well, what else do we call it? Now, when we put all this on top of that, you're taking away the rights of the voters and the chosen Kurdish people there. We call it the anti-Kurdishism. You're still saying we're not doing it. What else are you going to do? What else are you gonna do? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Three other people were assigned today. You openly condemn the people's will, the people's vote, the right to choose and be elected, you are extortionists! There's no other explanation for this, I'm sorry. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, sir, I'm going to finish by telling the other one very briefly. Look, here's the thing: you never judge what you do, that's where it comes from. You're always doing the right thing!) Take a look, have a consultation, think about it. Talk amongst yourselves, you don't have to tell us. Now, for the first time, it is your President-General who calls a coup in Turkey a favor from Allah. He said God's grace. So something was blessed, an opportunity came to us. He said, "This is what he calls opportunity. Now, you've taken that opportunity.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0154par0796	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0152par0797	I'm picking it up, sir. You've concluded this coup attempt. You've placed tens of thousands of people that you've thrown out of the government with decrees under the law -- the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of National Defense, all ministries and organizations. It was thrown close to 150,000 people, and you put them all there, and you gave them what they wanted, remember that, don't forget that. Yeah, I'll show you a thing or two. I mean, it's not really what I said either. I'll show you as soon as I find it. That's when your president confessed: we made it this way. He said. It's obvious. It's obvious. Now, therefore, you should see this. Second, there are many photographs taken by your friends at the foot of Fetullah. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Last sir, if I may... Now, for example, here are photos of your most abusive, abusive paralegals, who are doing this to make amends; we know that. I mean, we're just trying to keep quiet so we don't resurface the photos, but the more yelling and insulting, the more likely they are, there's a crime they committed. They took pictures at the bottom of the skirt. Now, that's the way it is. So, who's hitting our chosen ones? On November 4th, who are our co-Chairs and lawmakers taking 15 people into custody at the same time and arresting them? It's your power, isn't it? Now, who's hitting our municipalities? It's your power, isn't it? Aren't we going to discuss this? Why do you get angry when I say that? I mean, I understand that you're upset, but just think about it, think about it, think about it. Are we doing anything wrong? That's what they say, is there any right to it? That's what we're asking. I mean, not like this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0155par0806	Mr. President, I need to add a sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0156par0807	I promise Erkan Bey, and then I promise you. Yes, Mr. Erkan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0157par0810	Thank you, Mr. President. Now I'd like to make a general assessment. Now, a friend of ours is playing the theatre at the General Assembly. He says to refer to these budget talks. I swear to God, I really regret that we've been monitoring these budget talks for years, both our citizens and we, and we're in it. I just want to remind you that the budget is an area where the state and citizens meet in the economic, financial, social, and political plane, the process, and there are two aspects of the concept of right of rights, in terms of one citizen, and as part of Parliament. Sir, there's usually no change in the House, a general complaint. So while this criticism may be justified, it is wrong to view the budget process as a text that only comes to Parliament, because the budget is a process in which, given the previous budget processes, almost a year, almost seven or eight months of work, the parliamentary reviews, motions, a number of demands, proposals, proposals, proposals are expressed, and the demands of citizens, civil society organisations have expressed the issues related to the budget. So Parliament certainly doesn't play a theatre in that sense. There's been talk of Ceylan Önkol, God rest his soul. A bomb launcher that had been thrown into the field before, but was left unexploded...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0158par0815	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0157par0816	...was determined by the verdict that he was killed by an explosion. We offer him God's mercy again and our condolences to his family. But the speaker, who expressed it, described the incident so much, that it was as if he had been killed by a shot from the carabinieri - armed forces. He used phrases that would make sense, which is not true. At times, hundreds of people in the region were killed, crippled, with mines, hand-made explosives that the terrorist organization had installed. One must not deviate from one's context. Now, this repetitive anti-Kurdish statement, which is not acceptable, and let it go. Now, we're a country with multi-party political life. If the MPs say this, we'll discuss it on the political plane; this is the misdemeanor of HDP. It's one thing because when you say "Kurdish hostility" it's another thing because it's completely different from the context of the issue, which we can't possibly accept. I think you should consider this a savings account for your own party and take yourself into account. Now, the literature of one man is being done: one man, one man, the budget of one man. I mean, if anyone listens to these words, they'll think there are palaces in the Keloglun tales or something in the country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, this one man, well, how many men do you want, how many men do you want instead of one man?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0159par0821	We want democracy.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0157par0822	Also, July 15th is an unfortunate statement, not to call July 20th the actual coup attempt, but to describe July 20th as the actual coup. Also, again, it's time for a fellow MP to rise above the tanks. I said, "It's the evening of July 15th." He said, "It's true, I agree, I believe in your sincerity." But in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all of us here -- Mr. Free Special, Mehmet Mush, and we, many of our friends who I can't name -- have really opposed this coup in the best possible way. That's what our friend said, I didn't hear it, but he said it was time to get on top of the tanks.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0160par0824	He did, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0157par0825	He did, so I don't object, but we do know that at that time, we also know that his president went through those pulse tanks at the airport, so there's something that's not clear about that. That's all I'm saying for now. One of our fellow lawmakers generalized the lawmakers and put up a facet, which should not be reduced to shallow, non-responsive, or low-level form. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0161par0828	Mr. Özgür, if you want Miss Özlem to answer CHP.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0162par0829	Sir, we're going to do that, of course, but now this statement about the president is inappropriate.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0161par0830	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0162par0832	Mr. President, thank you. We've never had a tradition of opposition to opposition parties, and we haven't done it in the last term, but, of course, the National Movement Party now defines itself as an opposition party, but it has also made it a mission to avoid criticisms against power, and Mr. Deputy President has just done that. In recent days, he used the expression: "What about this palace, this palace, which is called the house of the nation? Where did his own Presidents come from in 2015?" Why is he not present at the Çankaya Mansion? Is his allergy to the Chankaya Mansion due to the ringing of the voice of Ataturk (Aaturk) on his walls? Besides, there's no wonder today, July 20th coup attempt, July 20th civil coup, July 15th, is associated with what we call the State of Emergency coup. Being the victim of a coup or dealing with a blow doesn't eliminate the fact that you're the perpetrator of another blow. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If the coups had reached their goal, we would have all been victims of that coup that day in the House. They would then bring a lunatic into the hands of Turkey, and they would do all kinds of injustice, all of us, and all of our families, including all of us, whose judgment was closed to what he said. Our position in Congress that day was: First we all opposed the coup together, then we said, "Let someone defend democracy against the State of Emergency demand." Because there can only be one innocent reason for the State of Emergency.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0163par0838	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0162par0839	If some lawmakers in this Parliament had supported the coup, or if some parties in general had stood up for the coupters, there would be no way that a parliament that was infected with coups would be able to fight the coup for a while, until the parliamentary elections were renewed quickly, perhaps there would have been a decree in the law, but there was not a person in this Parliament who stood up for the coup; rather, in the common text that was signed and read the following day, both four parties in their talks, to fight the coup against the coups, but they did not stand up to support the coups, but unconstitutional, unwarranted, comma, unconstitutionable, unconstitutionable. However, the State of Emergency declared was nothing more than political ingratitude to parliament. So we have seen the fact that it was described as a civil coup, and that the bat taken for the authority to fight ▪ was made on the backs of all opponents, not to be cut off from their heads, even to the miner who walked for his rights in SOMA, even to the OHR authorities who had been unable to rule the country, that a government that had been able to mediate it and turn it into opportunity. Until that day, for example, between 17 and 25 December, from their accounts to their presidents in their rooms, the time is 17. It's twenty-five minutes past 00, and the clock still stands. By that, the attitude of this country when it's forced to change the OHR with the OHAL and the OHR and the OHR, and is forced to vote, it's the same time that it takes its course, it's the same way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the speech, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way that people are now connected to the same cable, and it's the same thing, and it's the same thing they's the same thing they say, and it's the same thing, and it's the same thing they's the same thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0163par0842	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0162par0843	... It is time for us to stand openly above the tanks of the time in front of the TV news cameras, or to stand in front of the Bulent Tezcan A News cameras. When I say, "We are against the violence, we are the main opposition party until the first elections, we have no other ambition." We stand behind the elected government and democracy. Speaking of which, after the phone contact with the Minister next to him on the plane, he was here on behalf of the party, speaking on behalf of the president, where he defended all of our leaders while the Ministry of Internal Affairs were defending his staff, and he was there to hide the Prime Minister of the era in the Ilgaz Tunnel -- when the tanks arrived in their homes -- and he was on his way.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0164par0845	It's slander!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0163par0846	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0162par0847	When the President of the period is on his way from the plane to the airport, did he personally get off the phone with the Deputy Governor of İstanbul, the Governor of the State, the Governor of the State of the State? When he lands on the phone, we tell him that he is being brought to safety by the team protecting him and that he is being returned to Ankara all night long, and that this attack is returned to himself by those who use the most positive sentences during an individual relationship with Mr. President, who use the most flattering statements.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0164par0849	They don't close the truth. You scream too loud, but they're free. Everybody knows about it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0163par0850	Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0165par0852	Now, I didn't think a sentence I was saying would make the Republican People's Party jump like it's a thorn. So we've stepped on a wound. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Now it's July 20th." Mr. Kilicdaroglu is the one who called July 15th, the "tiyatro", and insisted on saying so. There's also a scissor angle between the Free Special, and the friends he's talking about, and his own presidents.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0166par0855	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0165par0856	Because Mr. Free Special July 15 coup attempt isn't a controlled coup, it's a coup, it's not a theatre." a friend of ours. I also admire him for his words, I have, and I also express them here, but his own presidents are in separate opinion. Now, you don't have to take a stand for work, a mask of opposition, a bunch of national issues in a hostile blind fight. ▪ Opposition is not against everything. We're a political party. Although it's a numerical situation that the nation puts in place, I must oppose everything. It's a morbid political understanding, it's an obsession. We, the National Movement Party, are the name of both a national opposition and a national resistance, and we don't necessarily position my stubbornness in certain places. I'm one of the most controversial, critical MPs to express this court curiosity.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0167par0859	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0165par0860	When Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin was Minister of Justice, I also remember a battle between us during such a budget meeting. I mean, at one point the palace of justice was called the palace of justice. I don't know, the palace started in public and came all the way from there. Later, the opposition parties and the Republican People's Party began to sit on the rhetoric on this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0168par0861	At the first construction, they called it the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0165par0862	So this is supposed to be a reasonable situation. I mean, I didn't actually see anything of the presidency, or of the Fivetepe, or of the Ashlay, or of anything that's so gaudy, or anything that's not going, so, you know, they're probably picturing palaces in the Keloglun fairy tales or something like that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0169par0863	CHP headquarters is more luxurious, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0165par0864	Now, we're a party that votes yes to this budget, because the presidency is the government's budget, and that's because we've set the goal of the presidential government's entire institution and its rules as a policy, which we continue in this position, and we expect to be respected. Besides, all of our friends, including me, in their various conversations, we often express criticism, assessments, suggestions, as necessary as we should, and I find it useful to remind them. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0170par0866	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0171par0867	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0172par0868	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0170par0870	I never thought I'd get word back, but Mr. Akchay took it to another level. One: there's no way that any of my friends and I have a different perspective on whether or not we're looking at July 15th between us and the president-General. No Republican People's Party executive or executive official can say that they did not call the coup a teater.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0172par0871	Big joke!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0170par0872	But I distinctly remember saying that on that night in Burdur, on the question of whether it was a coup or a theatre, the Anadolu Agency reported it. And if you call it that, with all the blood and all the martyrs and all the veterans and all the flying planes and the bombs being thrown out, there's nothing left for you to criticize, and you'll be in the sin of so many people. However, the party's statement of controlled coup is different from that of the theatre. That's why the House Research Commission report is never published. The controlled coup was expressed by the Republican People's Party as a preconceived, unstoppable, ineffective coup. The article written months ago, the prosecution's indictments, intelligences, and the coup in which the coup was reported to all personnel by the General Staff, do not abandon the troops. Instead, we intend to send 98.5 percent of the time to deliver the barracks to the coupgers; rather than to say, "It's a blessing of God," as it was said earlier, saying, "It's a blessing of God." There is nothing remotely inconsistencies with this. If there's going to be a discrepancy, it's going to lead to the policies of the National Movement Party today's Justice and Development Party. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...for example, last week's CIT reports, which they signed last week, in 2011, 2012, 2013, when they were doing the harshest reviews, they could find them here last week, from voting against their own criticism, before the coup, after-the-flash parties' relations, until the leaders say to each other, I'd be ashamed of them again. I also regret to inform you that the language used against my president in the palace to discredit him has come to the MHP. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0173par0879	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0174par0880	Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0173par0882	Of course, I don't intend to continue this discussion, but the way it's been used, it's pushing it. We haven't had any rude expressions.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0175par0883	(sing) Shake through the tanks (sing)
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0176par0884	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0173par0885	Okay, he's left. Let's say he left the airport. Let's say he left the airport.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0175par0886	No, one day, when I was interviewing the president...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0173par0887	Let's change it in those notes. Other than that, dear friends, now, the traitorous coup attempt on July 15, 2016 is both political and social in Turkey. Politics must continue as a democratic competition and competition in our multi-party democratic political life. But this treacherous coup attempt also showed that if we were to be political actors, politics was a fight, a blind fight... he said that. He said that. This, he said that. You said that in the past, that's what O said to you. If we got stuck with it, it would only bring blind combat and hostility. And this has shown in our recent, at least a hundred years of close history that this kind of blind fight is the greatest, most damaging to the country, to the nation. We have repeatedly stated that the processes that we face to the Balkan War have been these blind fights between politicians, who claim to run the state in the first degree, while are for various reasons of loss, loss of homeland, loss of state and the loss of beca.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0177par0890	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0173par0891	Otherwise, all political parties continue their own corporate personality, their programs, their political life's activities, their thesis. But we're not enemies of each other, we're just in the quest and effort to be together in countries and national matters. If this discussion is extended, of course, we'll extend it, but I wish it would stop. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0178par0894	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0179par0895	I'll put it together in the same manner in two minutes, if you'll excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0180par0896	But, Mr. President, is this how it's gonna go?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0181par0897	That's enough!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0179par0898	That's enough, but it doesn't work if you don't say it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0180par0899	Then that's how long we want it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0182par0900	Yeah, what? What line? For God's sake, let's not say a word!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0183par0901	Mr. Erkan made a very reasonable assessment. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0184par0904	I'll say it perfectly. In short: I have not discredited your president. When you use the phrase "do not flee from the presence of the witness," then you have discredited him. When you tell him not to leave, if you mean the same thing, it'll be kinder, but we'll still oppose that slander.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0185par0906	Tell the truth, tell the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0184par0907	Let me tell you the truth, for example, how would you feel if I told you that Mr. President of the National Movement Party, the night of the coup, even though the roads were open, instead of coming here from such a short distance, instead of strengthening solidarity?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0185par0909	You can't say that, we won't make you say that! Lies! It's not the same thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0184par0910	We feel the same when you say "swallowed."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0185par0911	It's not the same.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0184par0912	Therefore, the language used against a general president will be noted.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0186par0913	It's the headquarters of the coup d'état, watch your mouth!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0184par0914	You pick it up! What I'm saying is it's the same thing as saying "splitted" and "can't get out of the General Center," and "bought peanuts." Then we'll feel the same way, don't do it. If we don't do it, don't do it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0187par0916	The first to make the statement is the State Gardener.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0188par0917	Where's the chick in headquarters, where's the chick? Sitting at headquarters, running his party, running the state, eating peanuts?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0184par0918	If we don't do it, don't do it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0187par0919	The State Gardener made the first statement, and the first one to resist was the MHP. Know you're talking!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0184par0920	Secondly, sir, if the National Movement Party calls opposition and strong opposition as a fight, they will have turned the remaining fifty-six, fifty-seven years into blind combat because they are very valuable and very short in their very long political lives. I'd like to remind Mr. Deputy Director of the Group that it's not true in terms of defending his own party. If the fierce opposition is blind combat, your party has done it for fifty-seven years without power. The authority from the public requires the right to do so. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I leave it to everyone's conscience to take authority over the opposition and sit in power.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0189par0924	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0925	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0189par0926	Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0928	Now, Free Special is pushing too hard, so let me rephrase my style.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0191par0929	What do you want me to do?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0930	First of all, the July 15 coup attempt, when that coup attempt began, was the only leader of the State Garden, who carried out his activities against this coup attempt while all the lights of our headquarters were shining bright.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0191par0932	Not the others!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0192par0933	He's the one who made the first statement! He did it at 3 a.m.!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0934	The first statement, the first statement, was made by Mr. President, when did Kilicdaroglu make the statement?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0193par0935	He did it at the end of the coup.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0194par0936	How? Shame on you! You wrote a thank-you book!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0937	We know what explanations you're making!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0193par0938	When? Don't do it! Everybody knows! You're the ones who've been giving us trouble. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0940	Now, if I may say so, he said so. As if he's not actually saying... he's still insisting. You haven't been able to explain his departure from Greenville Airport, what are you trying to tell whom?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0195par0941	Explain what?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0942	Where was Kilicdaroglu on the night of the July 15 coup, and why didn't he make a statement?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0196par0943	Where was he after July 15th? Where were the KHKs? Was I the one who called you "Tiyatro"?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0190par0944	Explain where he was after July 15th.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0197par0945	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0198par0946	Before he came down, he stood up to the plane, and he stood up to the blow without knowing anything about it. What else? He's a vital printer witness, isn't he?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0197par0947	He's asking questions, I think he's done, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0199par0948	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0200par0951	Now, valuable lawmakers, including the Republic, the Ottoman era, the Seljukian era, are the lowest, most treacherous attempt on this geography on July 15th because in this geography, where we know that hundreds of states have been buried, the government was asked to be destroyed on July 15th. So, thank God, a great will has appeared, and on July 15th, our democracy has lived, our Parliament has lived. So there's already been a lot of controversy about it. Mr. Ozgur, I promise Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0201par0953	Ending this...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0200par0954	After that, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0201par0955	But he's asking questions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0202par0956	Mr. President, there's no end to this!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0201par0957	He's asking questions. What can I do? Where was he? He says, "What did he do?" Not until you answer what you asked, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0202par0958	Mr. President, there's no end to this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0203par0959	Everyone knows where you are, sitting around drinking tea and watching a hit on TV.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0204par0960	All right, have a minute. Let's not keep this up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0205par0964	Mr. President, we're not going to continue, and I think we're going to get to a better place than we did before. Mr. President was on the plane, and they landed hours later. He was with the Minister, the Hayati Printer. Hayati Printer came here and shook my hand and kissed me on the forehead; and when he phoned the president, when he informed him of the blow -- from his cell phone Mr. Okan -- he said, "I was proud of your attitude and your attitude." Hayati Bey is a witness, I say it everywhere. Then, thanks to Mr. General President's message that he published in the same hour as the leaders, the Necdet Ünüvar published in the entire book of this Assembly, it's all there. You can look at what time it's done, see how clear it is.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0206par0966	What time did he do it?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0205par0967	Mr. President... Oh, I've never said a word to Mr. Gardenie's attitude on the night of the coup, nor have I.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0207par0969	You can't, you can't!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0205par0970	Why? He's at headquarters. They're here, the president is there.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0207par0971	When you were pajama, slippers, television, we were fighting with guns.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0205par0972	Why didn't I come to this day, why didn't he come to the top of the tank...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0207par0973	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0205par0974	But in spite of my testimony, despite the testimony of the Hayati Printer, when you hold and use that disrespectful statement to my president, I say, "We feel the same way when you say what you feel."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0208par0975	You can't say that!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0205par0976	Well, neither can you, friend! Let's go! I don't make you either.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0209par0977	You say it, you'll be angry when you get the answer; no.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0205par0978	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0210par0979	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0211par0980	It's 13 o'clock. The General Assembly meeting we're having at 00, Mr. President, it's 1700 hours. We were able to do it at 00.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0210par0981	I promised Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0212par0982	For God's sake! You say what you want, when you get the answer, you can't!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0210par0983	Mr. Group Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0213par0984	Kilicdaroglu couldn't make it, General Kurula.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0212par0986	For God's sake! He's here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0210par0987	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par0988	Shame on you! The bridge is closed, they put a car on the ship and came! Kılıçdaroglu couldn't make it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0210par0989	Mr. Free, Miss Özlem...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par0990	If you look at him, the President you're chasing came to Ankara five days later.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0210par0991	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par0992	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par0994	Yeah, it's really interesting! I wish you could take care of your president in the face of that coup! (CHP rows) If you could really do it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par0995	That's exactly what we did!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par0996	You don't do it, you don't do it, you really don't!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par0997	Shame on you! Shame on you! I swear it's wrong!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par0998	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par0999	No, no, no! That's not true, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1000	One second... one second... Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par1002	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1003	Yes, it is. I just wanted to say...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0216par1004	It's a shame. It's a shame. Shame, it's ugly!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0214par1005	Who are you telling?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0217par1007	Here, express your thoughts, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1008	Mr. President... Wait a minute... why is that a shame? Why ugly? What I'm saying is, look, as we're talking here...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0218par1010	The left has always been crushed by blows, ma'am. The left has fed you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1011	Look, I'm asking you... look, we've suffered a lot of blows.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0218par1012	The left is the left; the left is the left is the left.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1013	We know, and so did you, amenna, and so did you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0218par1014	The revolutionaries, the leftists, the Ataturkers.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1015	Oh, wait a second...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0219par1016	Yeah, when I was doing an evaluation...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1017	One ten seconds... don't take anything against every sentence I say. Look, what I'm saying is that I was actually going to answer HDP, but now the CHP, they're all together because they're meeting at the same point.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0220par1020	You guys were fucking together!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0221par1021	You walked these roads together, you got wet together in the rain!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1022	Wait a second... you're meeting my dear friends here...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0222par1023	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1024	Will you stop calling me that, and I'll tell you what's wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0223par1025	You got wet together, you walked together!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0215par1026	Will you shut up, I want to tell you what's wrong? Please, I beg you...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0224par1027	Friends, the Group is the Vice President, please...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0225par1028	Miss Miss Özlem, wait a minute, wait a minute... Dear MPs, our Group Presidents are expressing their opinion. I assure you...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0226par1030	Mr. President, we don't want any insults.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0227par1031	I'm not insulting you, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0226par1032	He's insulting me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0228par1033	You're an experienced friend, wait a minute... Let's make a reckoning that we've damaged the House's reputation with these slurs. I assure you, these are of no use to your party or to your own benefit; let us hear Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1035	Mr. President, I'm tired of insults, I never do and I never will be. I just want to say, look, there are some things in life that we have to say without faith, for example, that I believe in God. Are you opposed to the coup or not? Now, if we're against it, the arguments we put behind them shouldn't completely eliminate the first sentence we say; that's what this is all about. Who's the president of this place we've been here before, who's what?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0230par1037	Mr. Erkan did it, we didn't do it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1038	Everything happened in front of the public in all of Turkey. I leave it to our nation to appreciate it, but please, with the statements we're saying... the same thing happened when we were listening to it from the HDP Group. Now, the testimony of our President is so clear. Why did he thank God, and why? If we hadn't stopped this coup attempt...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0231par1039	It's a disaster...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1040	...that the Republic of Turkey was almost gone, they would have taken over. After this coup attempt, we have been able to clean up the people within the public with the constitutional power of the state of emergency in which you have sunk and in no way supported us. Oh, I don't mean to say that there's a process that's already going on with the mistakes of administration, the proceedings of the judiciary when these things are being done. What we mean here is that you then use a language to explain the matter of the state of emergency that almost eliminates your opposition to the coup; there is a problem with this balance. Now, I want to come from here, I want to come to talks here: I want to come from the presidential system, before the presidency, before the government system, in what small way were the objections to the budget being formed, so what was being said to our President earlier? When I looked back and looked back, there was no difference between what was said that day and what was said today. Once, when we're doing our reviews, when we're doing our reviews to the budget, I see that the parliamentary system is still being answered by thinking through its arguments.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0231par1043	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1044	One of them is, it's very controversial, which I don't want to reopen, but the matter of the appointed, in terms of discussion. We have the Civil Code. When we open our Civil Charter, Article 62 of the Civil Charter, Mr. Fuat Oktay, or Vice President, explains in a very sacrilegious way why our vice president is here. Why is he here? Because according to the Civil Code -- which we all did together -- he's here in accordance with the law, on behalf of a representative within the scope of the law, on behalf of the presidency. But the same approach... when you're talking about every issue of the presidency, you say, "Sir, you've had the coup." You also took power from here -- you just said something like that -- you changed the regime. Didn't we continue this process together? I mean, were you anywhere else when you were running? Didn't we all have a referendum together in this country?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0232par1046	You did it under extraordinary circumstances, ma'am!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0233par1047	Wait a minute, brother, I'll answer, wait.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1048	Moving on.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0234par1049	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1050	Yes, Mr. Special says he'll answer. After the referendum, didn't the people of our country say yes to this amendment? They said, "Yes." Wasn't our President elected in this system? She's been chosen. In fact, we, the MPs here, you, my CHP friends, were elected by the election in this system. If you refuse to do so, you will deny your own existence.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0235par1052	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1053	Now, I'm coming from here: you've got one man, one man, one man.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0235par1054	How many men, how many men, how many men?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1055	I'm going to say, look, we have a Deputy Speaker running this place today. What was he normally like? We were going to talk after the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) friends, but he used a will -- he promised the speaker -- he said, "Let's finish the 2nd group, so I'll make the decision." How many people have made the decision? One. Because it's one person who makes all the final decisions. All the final decisions, look, debate, debate... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Whether it's in the parliamentary system or in the presidential government system, it's one person who makes the final decision after all negotiations. Now, long before the presidential system's dissolution of forces, in what we might call the idea father of Montesquieu, which is called the Spirit of the Law -- a magnificent work, as well as its name -- it tells us that there should be a majority in legislatures like us when you look there. We are; we are now in the largest majority Parliament in the history of Turkey. That system you didn't like caused it. There are nine political parties, five groups of parties in our House right now. And then I want to come to this: pluralism in the legislatures that are said there, but in making decisions, in making decisions, the singleness is the basis, the basis of being one. Arguing, negotiating.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0236par1060	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1061	Is it different in Germany? It's not. I'm talking about the final decision. So that's exactly what happens in this system, in the parliamentary system. Could a minister do something the Prime Minister didn't want? There's no way, there's no way. So the Prime Minister's elected minister is valuable to you, but in fact, the reason why so many approvals were received when the President was elected is because he's already been given power over the appointment of the Vice President, the ministers, in accordance with the Constitution. I really think it's absurd to say this over and over again. Now, there was an argument here, and even during that discussion, I told my friend that he shouldn't have said the same thing. I expect the same thing from Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0236par1064	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1065	Now, there are interesting expressions in his speech when he makes the speech. I'm curious, I'm curious about this whole bait thing, so what's the bait? Because using the words "yem" is indeed a very insulting language, it is insulting. I mean, it's like he took it, ate it himself, fed it to the chickens or something. Now, what was this used for? When we look at what these costs are used for, there's dogs there about bomb control, there's horses used in formal ceremonies, and then there's pets there, and that's actually the cost of all of them. Besides, if she really does have a side to her...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0237par1066	He's got a pen for his pens.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1067	I'm counting, so I'm sharing information from our presidency. After all, it is not for anyone to disparage the president of a country using these things, it is not for them. When you talk like that from here on the stand, you terrorize the audience that you normally address, and you use a language, a way of asking it to attack you intentionally, by intentionally destroying you in the audience you're addressing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0238par1070	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1071	I will, Mr. President. If we're talking about a clean language, it's probably not just for us who listen, but for those who address it, there must be some compensation. Now, Mr. President, there's a lot of questions, and I'm going to end with that question, with an answer to that question, and a poem. Something good happened today, poems, jokes... I like jokes and poems, to tell you the truth. The question was, why should the people trust you? Isn't that the question? Why should this nation trust you? Now, that question is such an absurd question. After all this time, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, win every election, win, win, win, win; here's the only Istanbul, Ankara, we haven't taken the Metropolitan Municipality, and we've taken all of the Metropolitan Assemblys.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0239par1074	Why don't you renovate it?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1075	The question is, why should the nation trust you? I think the question should be asked: Why doesn't this nation still trust and trust us? Why doesn't it trust you? Why doesn't he trust you?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0240par1077	Is it time for a poem, Miss Özlem?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1078	Coming right up, Mr. President. Now, why doesn't he? Because while you're still talking about these basic values, I think you're getting into something unnecessary. Cami: Now, sir, why is there a mosque in England? Why is there a mosque in America? Why is there a mosque in Africa? Why was there money spent on these? Back home, people didn't have socks to wear to their feet. Now -- I don't know if you've seen these mosques, I don't know if you've seen them, but if you haven't -- see, if you haven't -- when I go abroad -- and I travel in my own name -- as a civilian, I certainly travel through mosques, because we have citizens clustered around mosques, and we have Muslims trying to protect themselves from their own culture, not just religious values -- we have citizens, we have Muslims from different geography of the world. I still don't understand why you'd rather have a mosque built in distant lands on the agenda here. I expect you to support this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0241par1082	I'll finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1083	I find it difficult to really understand the objection to that. They are an ashtray, an ash that tells of our view of life, and protects the spiritual bond of our citizens there -- their own and their children -- with their country. We expect respect and thanks. Now, finally, I want to finish by singing two verses of Loved Mahzuni.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0242par1085	Free?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0229par1086	To the hearts who want to buy... who buys... I say that all men should know themselves, and all men should know what they know, and all men should know what they know. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0243par1090	That's right.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0244par1091	Mr. Free, let's wrap this up. I'll take a break.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1093	Yes, Mr. President. Once, first of all, we need to talk about what democracy in which you can achieve a regime debate in the developed, established democracy of the world, if there is a separation of forces, if there is a rule of law, if there is no doubt about it, if there is no attitude or behavior to cause criticism of a single man...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0246par1095	I don't.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1096	...no matter how effective the opposition is...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0246par1097	They're not.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1098	No matter how competent his followers are, no matter what he does, he can't start an argument like this. But Turkey deserves a lot of criticism from one man before, during, and after the April 16 referendum, and the way it was led today. I'm having a hard time answering in the logic department. Mr. Group Vice President says: "Have we not done this Constitution with all its processes?" Didn't we do the referendum together? Didn't you get out of that election? Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you held that referendum under the DG bat.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0247par1101	Not at all!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1102	For example, the opportunity for televisions to broadcast equally will be fined. You have removed the article with DGK. Why? To make sure there's no equal defense with yes. These provisions are not used in the election of the following year. You have issued the article so that you may be able to make the dominant choice.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0248par1103	We saved the public TV then.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1104	In addition, while you were using 100 billboards in the State of Emergency -- and their money was talked about from what covered funds, what public resources -- the opposition was able to drive a billboard.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0248par1105	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0249par1107	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1108	While you're under the State of Emergency, with that fear and with those resources...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0250par1109	Were you scared? Who's scared?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1110	I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0250par1111	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1112	Everyone knew that there were six days before the referendum, and whatsApp came to all of them: they were going to have a company with a reputation of 67 per cent, and they were going to start at the Anadolu Agency that night at 67 per cent of the state's institution. Someone who was respected until that day left public research Thursday afternoon, entered the referendum manipulation, explained 67 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0251par1113	But it's been talked about a lot, Mr. Ozgur.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0245par1114	But Mr. President, it will be said when you ask. On that day, he started from 67 per cent to Anadolu Agency; he melted and melted to 51 per cent. You've tried every manipulation, until you're disappointed, to keep the voter out of the polls, to keep his head out of the box that night. And then, from your mentality, it turns out that the system that you're designing is giving away your mentality -- a system that only wants power, you say: "If you were going to oppose, why did you enter Parliament with this election?" So he wants to say: "No to the one man's regime, let's not even be in Parliament."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0252par1116	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0253par1117	No, no, I refuse, no!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0254par1118	She doesn't believe in it herself.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0255par1119	The problem, my friends, is that as long as Turkey becomes authoritarian, as long as it manages with power, pressure, and, for example, Fahrettin Altun behaves like a communications adviser to the EC PARTY, not the President, you get criticism of the party state. On the outside, it's the party state, but what's the criticism coming from inside your party? What a party state! In the party state, members of that party rule; the individual state, the family state.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0256par1121	Pick it up before the answer comes, Mr. Ozgur.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0257par1122	He's been born, he's been born, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0255par1123	A son-in-law will rule the economy, produce a son-in-law SIHA, his daughter-in-law will be head of CADEM, and the boy will be head of TORGEV, and the lady will be more authorized in environmental projects than the Minister of Environment. The family state, the individual state... two new political movements, two new parties are being born from the appeal of the Justice and Development Party. After that, Abbas, he's a passenger. He won't stop.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0256par1125	Hakkı Saruhan Oluç Bey, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0258par1127	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'm going to point out two things: the first one is a coup. I mean, we've always been against any kind of coup, and from now on, we'll always be against it, and we've never had the slightest doubt about it. But what I'm wondering is that we've warned you many times in this House that this coup is coming, so not knowing who it's coming from, but we've repeatedly warned you that there's a impact environment going on, and you haven't listened. So, it's over, it's over; we've submitted motions over and over -- not just us, but other parties -- and we said, "Where is the political foot of this coup?" So you found it on trial, you found it in Internal Affairs, you found it in National Defense. Look, over 18,000 people from the Ministry of National Defense have been discharged, nearly 5,000 people have been discharged from the judiciary, more than 33,000 people have been exported from the Ministry of Interior. So you found it everywhere, no political foot was found. So we made many motions to investigate the political foot. You refused, you refused, you refused, you refused, the political foot was found. A coup with no political foot has never happened in this country, there must be. Let's say that. Let me make a point. The president did not say that the coup would be blocked. He said that it was God's grace for the coup. I'm gonna let this go, and I'm not gonna do it anymore. Second: HDP hostility is not appropriate in terms of democratic politics. Political parties are rivals, enemies are different. Therefore, we do not approve of the hostileness of the HDP, but we especially say this: Certainly the Turkish people are making an enemy of the Kurdish people. We do not speak of it as an enemy of the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1133	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0258par1134	What we're emphasising is the administration, the power, the political will behind the execution, the political party that is the enemy, that's what we call the Kurdish people, because they're violating your will, because they're ignoring your will. That's where the problem is. Yeah, if a kid gets a box of baklava from a baklava, he'll be in juvenile prison for years; that's the power that takes out the entire city, extortion. So we don't know what the penalty is, so you decide. We say: 'Don't continue this hostility, don't do it, don't violate the will of the people. This is what we say. We're sure that if you keep this up, the Kurdish people will never forget this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's my last word, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1137	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0258par1138	This is also a great disrespect to the will of the people of Turkey, who favour democracy, who favour the right to choose, who favour the right to be elected, and all who live in this country. That's what we're trying to tell you. Your constituents won't accept this disrespect either. So we're sure of that because all the claims are off-limits, and our speakers told us today, and we'll continue to tell you because 31 trustees have been appointed; we have 64 municipalities, so we'll continue to talk here every week until all of those trustees are appointed. Yeah, and then we'll keep talking until the election. We will not give up on your hostility to the world for a moment. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1140	I'm more or less watching very carefully, and I respect the opinion of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0260par1141	Mr. President, I have a sentence to make.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1142	I will, Miss Özlem. But I assure you, all very long conversations are happening in the same way, and I want to warn you that it may not mean anything in that regard. Because it's the same thing, your objections over and over again.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0261par1144	The trustees continue to be appointed, sir, that's why.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1145	So let's not get ahead of ourselves, it's no use right now.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0262par1146	Let me just say one quick thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1147	There's no use in this, there's no use in arguing about the system right now. There's programs on TV, they're already there. Miss Özlem, let's finish, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0262par1150	Mr. President, I know it's very short, but I'll tell Mr. Special. Now, during the debate over this system, before the referendum, Mr. Special, I did a newspaper interview, and I even got a lot of beatings from my own party. I said there, in an interview with Kubra Par. He also loves his homeland, which says "Yes" and "No." I said that with faith. That's why it's our business, and it's my business personally, and I care about the opposition. And I don't think the people who voted for you, the people who voted for you, the CHP, and the people who voted for the AK PARTY live in a different place. They live in the same house, in the same house. Sometimes wives, sometimes kids vote for different parties. That's what he said when he said yes and when he said no. Now, you're questioning me about mentalism, and the truth is, I'm the kind of person who's been trying my whole life to make sure that my words -- despite the size of my mind -- are the same, and I care about that. Look, that's why I just said it at the expense of hurting my friend. I expect the same from you. So I expect you to say with the same brave heart that the language of your speaker is not true. I believe the House may have a common mind, a common mind on the fundamental issues. That's the common mind: what's a coup? What's terror? We need to come up with a common mind. We have to stop blaming each other.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1152	Thank you very much Miss Özlem, it's been very nice.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1153	Mr. President, before I even...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1154	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1156	The point is, sometimes these arguments seem useless, but...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0259par1157	We've come to a good point.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1158	...Mr. President, not to oppose you. The point that we have come to with Miss Özlem is important, saying, "It is important, Miss Özlem, that I said that the person who said yes and the person who said no was precious to this country, and I was beaten to death by my party.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0264par1160	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1161	That's what we've always objected to in the process. The leader of your party, the speakers, who say yes, who say no. They made categories that we object to. It's important to hear it from you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0264par1162	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1163	But you just said, "I'm a friend of mine, and I'll say it again, I didn't find it right like you did. "
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0264par1164	He said it on the stand.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1165	Bulent Turan is also a witness, everyone is a witness, and I'm here to apologize on behalf of my friends over and over again. But you said: "I expect the same thing. " My friend makes political criticism, and you have not insulted him.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0264par1166	I've read it, I've got it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1167	Or maybe you missed it, because if you did, it was wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0264par1168	And I didn't.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0263par1169	Or I'll take a look at the report, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0264par1170	Let's look together.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0265par1171	I've been getting messages from our MPs, today at 03. At 100, just in case we finish it, so...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0264par1172	Mr. President, it's been fun. Wait a second, I'm gonna say a sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0266par1173	That's my last word, sir. Maybe she'll say something to that too, Miss Miss Özlem. Today, it's a very meaningful day, of course, in the presidential budget, when there's a number on one side and politics on the other, it's going to be a regime debate, a system debate. A consulting firm that boasts the full knowledge of the referendum -- I don't want to name it, it's in the papers today -- that now there are 100 voters who say yes, 25 of them have gone to no -- and today, if asked by the neutral president, the overwhelming majority of them say yes to the neutral presidency, the consulting company that you worked closely with in the past, please look carefully. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0267par1177	Mr. President, no, we're going to make a statement, five o'clock in the morning, we're going to finish it, Mr. President, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0268par1178	Miss Özlem, you just made a very good assessment. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0267par1181	Now, I can't bear to have a good word turned against both myself and Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0269par1182	Don't...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0267par1183	No, please, I know exactly what I'm saying.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0269par1184	They did that to us, the President called us terrorists.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0267par1185	Look, my dear friends, I'm the one who listens to all the speeches of our President from the beginning to the end of his campaign -- all of them. This country has chosen in a free environment. We, of course -- I worked all the way through to the end with all my friends, but there was also an open space for people who wanted to say no. That's why I can't stand the thought of myself or our President, especially the opposite, the opposite of the word. I mean, I think I'm speaking in good faith, Mr. Special, indeed. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit01spe0270par1188	Well, thank you, it's very good. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. It is time for a speech on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. The first statement belongs to Yalova MP Meliha Akyol. Here you are, Mr. Akyol.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0271par0048	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the presidential budget of 2020. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. In our history, we are a nation dominated by three continents, seven seas, 20 million kilograms of land; there are 53 states in that land today. As the balance of such a glorious past, we need to have a sense of history to be aware of our greatness. Our chairmanship of the National Government of Saracens is one of the only institutions of our country's priceless historical structures, artifacts and objects that are sensitive to the future of immovable cultural assets, protection and introductions. The duties and powers of the National Palaces, which were bound to the presidency by the Constitution of the Constitution on July 16, 2018, were re-recognised under the name of the Chairman of the National Court of Palaces. Thus, it became a unique structure, without burden to the budget, and business and transactions were accelerated. The national palaces' revenues have been framed by law only to be used in restoration of the national palaces again. So even a visitor visiting the national palaces there -- all of them -- has been assigned to the restoration and care of the national palaces by law a year ago. So, they competed with the world's equivalents, and their income increased by 100 percent. In addition, the administration, restoration, promotion and other services of Topkapi Palace have been transferred to the presidency's Presidentship of the National Court of Palaces, with the decision dated 6/9/2019 and 44. With this decision, Topkapi Palace, which has a history of over 500 years, has enabled the adoption of the presidency, such as the examples of the world, to ensure that restoration, protection and promotion activities are carried out more successfully and more successfully. After the transfer of the National Palaces to the presidency, restoration and consolidation practices for palaces, katters and mansions, particularly Topkapi Palace, have gained momentum. Objects and counting commissions have been set up at Topkapi Palace warehouses. The census of 142,000 works of 56 separate collections is planned in the 10 count zone. For the first time, digitally recorded objects in the warehouses that have been identified and sorted by members of the Commission. In addition, world-famous artifacts stored in warehouses have also been opened to visit as part of their promotional activities. The 86-carat Spooner Diamond, the largest and most famous of historical diamonds, is one of them. Among the number of treasures of the world, Sultan I. Mahmoud's Topkapi Dagger, which he made for the rare Shah, is one of the new works. The national palaces, which represent our country in the best possible way, have achieved two major achievements in the area of historical artifact restoration. Turkey's largest carpet with 406 square metres has been restored for the first time in a hundred and twenty years. Again, with 35 square metres, Av was successfully moved from Sait Halim Pasha Yalılılı to the Museum of Image in the National Palace, Turkey's largest orientist painting. After the National Palaces joined the presidency, the number of visitors increased by 27 per cent in the last year, reaching 54 per cent in foreign visitors; the increase was reflected in the box office data. In the last year, revenue growth has reached 91 per cent in foreign visitors and 84 per cent in domestic visitors. The national palaces within the presidency have become self-sufficient in the ministry of historical heritage with their incomes, such as the world's equivalent institutions. For example, this year, the National Palaces set a record of visitors at Dolmabahçe Palace on 10 November, one of its historic days. For the first time, 125 thousand visitors with a crew of 205 people were allowed to visit the Palace smoothly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0272par0055	Here, round it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0271par0056	On the same day, 26 national and international media companies have been able to share developments with the public with live connections. Our President of the National Courts is aware that he is not the owner of the historical and national works of our beloved nation, but of his trust. He realizes that the burden of these works is heavy and his responsibility is great, and he has done this honorable task so far, and he is determined to carry it out with the same consciousness. On this occasion, I wish the new term budget meeting to be a blessing, and from the opening of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute all of our MPs who have served our country with the belief of the superiority of national will under this roof so far.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0273par0060	The order belongs to Tekirdağ MP Çiçdem Koncagül. Here you go, Mr. Koncagül.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0274par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our beloved nation and our grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the presidential budget at the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I would like to ask that the central management budget of 2020, which we are negotiating as the 2nd budget in the 18th, presidential government system, which we have prepared as the EC PARTI, will give significant contributions to the future of Turkey's powerful government budget and bring blessings to our development goals. Respected lawmakers, it is clear that we are making serious financial improvements by the budgetary discipline we have established as EC PARTI governments. In 2002, we built the financial structure where we could use our tax revenues more effectively by bringing the budget deficit of 11.2 per cent to 1.9 per cent at the end of 2018. When we looked at the Turkish economy 2003-2018, the EC PARTY and it averaged 5.6 per cent year-on-year growth; as a result of this growth, we provided an average of 160,000 new jobs year-on-year. We've done revolutionary activities from health to education, transport to social life in all areas, and the amount spent on RD activities has been nearly doubled in national income along with the AK PARTI. Members of lawmakers, the threat our country faces due to its geopolitical structure is far greater than any other country. The main production of the defence industry is the national security and peace environment, where no economic and social activity can take place without this environment, where all the economic indicators of the country will be negatively affected, and cannot be saved by the state's background and reputation. Turkey's achievements in the defence industry over the past 18 years have proved to be true of steps that have been increasingly accepted by defence industry and security products produced in our country. Our country does more than meet its own needs, and with a growing number every year, it also meets the need for defence industry products. We have to remember that the engine of technology around the world is a defense industry. Dear lawmakers, we have come to this day under the principle of the right to serve the people, with no exception to our basic principles in the eighteen years of our EC PARTY. Our president and our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have not been tired for a day on the path of service to our nation. We continued to work for one nation, one flag, one country, one state, a stronger Turkey. From day one, we sought solutions by worrying about our nation's problems. In order to take stronger steps in our country's development and foreign policy, we changed our Constitution to cover the shortcomings of the existing system, bringing the Presidential government system with a referendum on April 16th. In the first election following the referendum, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, was the first leader of the presidential government system, with more than 52 per cent of the vote, courtesy of more than 26 million citizens. (EC PARTY) With the transition to the presidential government system, administrative and financial management and the efficiency of the budget process have been significantly increased. In the international arena, where the existence and size of countries has been proven, we have also signed initiatives and efforts to show our national and domestic position to the friend. In particular, we have sent great messages to the world with the Battles of the Firat Shield, olive branch and the Fountain of Peace to eliminate threats at the Syrian border near us, both by our standing upright in order to protect the welfare of the people of the region and the safety of our country. On this occasion, I thank our heroic soldiers who served in the operations and bless our beloved martyrs. Honourable lawmakers say, as we have stood firm from day one to day in the face of all challenges, then I salute you all with respect and love, with the power we have received from our nation under the leadership of our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0275par0073	The order belongs to Mehmet Akif Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0276par0076	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of my group on the presidential budget. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, our nation made an important decision about our management system in the 2017 referendum. With an unreachable turnout in democratic countries, around 86 percent, the nation has granted its will. Instead of a unlimited official and irresponsible president, a position of the presidency was established, which was supervised by the judiciary and legislation, which account for the nation. Our administrative structure was freed from two aspects. The stability in management, the understanding of justice in representation. A system has been adopted to end government crises and antidemocratic interventions that have cost our country years. The presidential government system is a choice of our nation, and everyone who respects the nation, democracy, should respect it. With the change of a 90-year system, the implementation of the new system, of course, there will be difficulties in the integration of state bureaucracy. It is natural for the opposition to criticize these practices. But their hatred for a leader they have not been able to defeat in 14 elections has never been acceptable for them to attack a leader of the nation with their speech of one man. (AK PARTY) This is the speech of the Western People, including July 15th, who organized all the coups against the will of the nation in our recent democratic history, and who haunted us with real dictators with guns. Dictatorship is the fate of all national leaders who are acting independently, taking bold steps in accordance with national interests. Today's processes in Latin American countries are the most obvious examples. Dear lawmakers, the budget we're negotiating is the nation's budget. It's a public service budget for every member of our nation to serve in every area. It is a budget that will serve peace in our country and in our region. This budget is a peacekeeping budget that will undermine our internal peace with traitorous bombs, low ditchs, terrorism and terrorist encouragement, and will be a nightmare of terrorist organizations and political extensions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we know that a picture of Turkey, which is starting to have a say in its territory and in the world, can produce independent policies, has made someone very uncomfortable. The ongoing internal and external operations that have been growing for our country for the past six years in particular show the extent of this disease. The March events that began in May 2013, when we announced our economic independence by renouncing our debt to the IMF, whose economy had been in shackles for years, followed by the ongoing Kobani and the ditching of our provinces, the bombings and, finally, the July 15th low blow attempt on our country, were civil war rehearsals for our country. These attacks were aimed not only at our internal peace, but at our political stability, our economic growth and military strength. We all know what terrorist organizations and politicians are involved in these treacherous attempts. Our nation will never forget and forgive the murderers who have been in the blood of our nation, who have been in the blood of our people, who have been in the blood of our people, who have been in the blood of our people, who have been in the blood of our people, who have been in the blood of our people, who have been in the blood of our nation, who have seen the city of terror, who have been in the center of peace, who have presented his party as a project of baby killer Ocalan, who has set up the image of Apo traitor, who have been a target for his party, who have been digging holes in the streets, who have been in our cities, who have been in the blood of our nation, who have been in the blood of our nation, who have been in the blood of our nation, our nation, who have seen the blood of our nation, who have seen the terrorist and the terrorist and the terrorist.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0277par0085	You've already put him on the TRT so he won't forget!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0276par0086	One minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0278par0087	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0276par0088	Dear lawmakers, the presidential government system is a strong will that our nation has demonstrated in the face of these attacks on our state, our nation, our unity. The state of the Republic of Turkey and this saintly nation will continue to fight from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean, from our south to the Aegean, from our south, without surrendering to all global attacks on the inside and outside, with determination, courage, political, military and economic power. May the budget of your union, unity, brotherhood, peace and nation be blessed and blessed. I salute our holy nation and our Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0279par0092	In turn, Antalya MP Kemal Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0280par0095	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Intelligence Agency's 2020 budget. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. While regional and global dynamics have rapidly changed, facing multidimensional and various threats due to the geopolitical and geostrategic position of our country, the MIT has managed to maintain the competitiveness of the global conjunctural conjuncture by improving its capacity as a business, technical, physical and personnel, and increasing its co-ordination between institutions. In particular, in recent years, our National Intelligence Agency has been operating within the framework of the target-focused operation principle, where threats can be eliminated from the present structure of security architecture, both inside and abroad. As a result of the work conducted by the MIT presidency, terrorist organizations -- including PKK, PYD, ا and DEAS -- are being hit in the field of counterterrorism, and are also struggling with the activities of these organisations abroad. Dear lawmakers, as a great nation, we oppose injustice and persecution, and we always embrace the oppressed. What crime could there be for the cub from Syria in his mother's lap, and how can we close our door for him? We know that we have a historical responsibility to the region's geography. With all of these human values, as a political fact, if you just stand by and watch the developments in this geography, you'll have to face the consequences of what's going on. As a matter of fact, Turkey, a new fiction that was intended to be established in northern Iraq has prevented the state and the terrorist corridor to be formed north of Syria, with its control over this geography. Just think for a moment that we're out of the way and on the edge of things, and then we'd be talking about something else today. Precious lawmakers, including the Turkish Armed Forces, all of our institutions serving as part of Operation Peace Fountain have broken the activities of the PKK and the PSD in the region through co-ordinated and hybrid warfare and hybrid warfare in Syria. In addition, with the Agency's development of intelligence and operational capabilities and the rise of technical equipment to the highest levels, it has been possible to conduct a result-oriented operation in the fight against terrorism as a result of operations conducted with drones and SIHA. In this context, the successful operations carried out in northern Iraq, with the Agency's security institutions and the disarming of the PKK's senior staff in the period 2019, are admirable. Co-ordination between the National Intelligence Agency and other security institutions has reached the highest level in the fight against both the Firat Shield, the Olive Branch and the Peace Fountains, and the PKK, the DEA and the rest of the security institutions. This has made it easier to fight threats more effectively and faster, to quickly process and analyze preliminary information, to develop the necessary reaction and measures. Our intelligence agency today demonstrates the ability to operate at the level of the operation that will move the people from every country with tweezers and bring them back to our country. The point in Syria was achieved because of our intelligence, effective diplomacy, and local and national technologies, along with the support of the people of the region, our understanding of justice from history. Dear lawmakers, support of the people of the region is always an important gain, and nothing else can be compared to it. This gain is also a sign of our rightness, and Turkey is the only one in this geography with the ability to be a reassuring state. Terror is a global problem in the world. The fight against terrorism has to be on a global level. At this point, the president of the MIT, his operations, his skills, and his activity in intelligence diplomacy, is a source of pride as a powerful intelligence agency in the world and in the region. Success achieved by the training and technological superiority of the Turkish Armed Forces, strong intelligence network and strong diplomacy, the determination at the point of action, without a doubt, requires strong leadership and leadership.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0281par0102	Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0280par0103	Therefore, behind the recent successes, the presidential government system and the strong leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In this framework, Turkey is a country with vision and vision, which does not delay its problems, but rather goes on to address problems. In this, of course, the role of our powerful Intelligence Agency, which has a regional and global plan, program and strategy, is great. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the coming period, human-based, electronic, technical, military, psychological and paramilitary intelligence resources must also be used together as the head of the National Intelligence Agency fulfills its duties and responsibilities. Dear lawmakers, the architect of all these achievements convey my appreciation, congratulation and gratitude to the valued members of our National Intelligence Agency, or rather to their anonymous heroes, and I hereby bless and cherish our fellow members of the organization, our sainted martyrs. In this framework, I salute the General Assembly, wishing our President, our country and our nation the best of the 2020 financial year budget.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0282par0110	Chorum MP Oğuzhan Kaya is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0283par0113	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Security Council Secretary General's Office in 2020. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, watching us at the beginning of their screens, from the stand of our Veteran Assembly. I'd like to start by giving my regards to 103 students and two of your teachers last week for the poisoning of our students at Omer Deepdere Fen High School in the district of Osmancık, my constituency district of Çorum Province. Fortunately, our students and teachers are doing well. The Secretary General of the National Security Council is the continuation of the High Defence Assembly, established by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in 1933 to ensure the safety of the Republic of Turkey. Each state takes its own security measures against threats and attacks on its support, integrity, and prosperity. As the states take these measures, they establish national security systems in their country and in the world that contain the processes and elements that will follow the agenda and determine the threats, the opportunities, and the right policy enforcement. States form institutions under the name of the National Security Council, or similar names, in order to make healthy, institutional, holistic, fast and effective decisions concerning national security issues, to ensure co-ordination and sharing of national information among governments or institutions. The Secretary General of the National Security Council is confused with the National Security Council, founded by the coupgers of September 12th. The Secretary General of the National Security Board continues to serve the secretary of the National Security Council, a constitutional institution. Under the presidential government system, which began on July 9, 2018 of the National Security Council's General Secretaryship, its structure was reorganised by the presidential decree No. 15 July 2018 and 6 presidential decree. The new era includes Presidents, Vice Presidents, Minister of Justice, Minister of State, Minister of Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chief of General Staff, Commander of the Army, Commander of the Air Force and Commander of the Navy. The Secretary General of the National Security Board conducts business and procedures concerning the National Security Council meetings and performs the duties given by the Council. It is part of the duties of the National Security Council to conduct research and evaluations, to deliver the results of these investigations and evaluations to members of the Council, and to establish a documentation centre covering these issues, and to conduct the work on the preparation of the National Security Policy Document. The effects of the globalization phenomenon around the world and rapid advances in technology have also led to continued improvement in the scope of risks and threats to the security of countries. With this dignity, the security of our country's national security has become more important than ever. The Secretary-General of the National Security Board is also an important security agency organised by the National Security Council to monitor and review the international, regional national security environment closely in order to ensure the national security of our country, as well as to carry out the tasks given in mobilisation and warfare and crisis management. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, in the general budget of the National Security Council for 2020 years, it appears that 71.27 per cent have been earmarked for staff costs, 11.18 per cent for social security institution state premiums, 9.70 per cent for current expenses, 0.41 per cent for current transfers, 7.44 per cent for capital costs. As the National Security Council Secretary General's Office continues the activities we announced above with funds in the financial budget proposal for 2020, talks are being held with the National Security Council's counterparts in other countries, meetings are continuing at an international level. Committees representing institutions that are equivalent to the Secretary General's Office of the National Security Board in foreign countries...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0284par0124	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0283par0125	And as a final statement to a great nation who says, "If we die, heaven is ours, country is ours, state is ours." On the day the second tank passes over the first tank, we will scare a hero to death, and if we die, we will die with our nation like a man." Recep Erdogan says, "If we die, we will be the ones who have a leader, if we stay, the nation is ours, the state is ours." And he says, "If we stay, we will honor a heroic nation over the first tank, we will fear death, and if we die together with our nation."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0284par0127	The order belongs to Kahramanmarash MP İmran Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0285par0130	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Justice and Development Party on behalf of the budget of the President of Religious Affairs, whose constitutional duty is to conduct Islamic affairs, to enlighten society over religion, to manage places of worship. I salute you all with love. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the Ottoman Empire, the position of the Sheikhismlam was constantly evolving from Tanzimat (Tanzimat) to the present day. 1917, 1920, 1924, 1931, 1937, 1950, 1957, 1961, 1965, 1978, 1982, 1984, were the major cornerstones of this evolution. On November 1st, 1993, Ankara adopted the opinion of the institution's autonomy and direct commitment to the presidency in the 1st Convention on Religion. The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs -- apart from discussions -- has continued to serve as much as possible abroad and abroad. Members of parliament, this most fundamental institution of the republic founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, has worked and worked in the light of the Koran, circumcision, historical knowledge, historical knowledge, and experience, to replace the values of unity, brotherhood, equality, justice, peace, respect, love, cooperation, solidarity and so on. Cami services, Koran teaching, education of religious officials, and the efforts to create awareness in the religious and national time period with the services of the victims, pilgrimages and Umre, family offices and guidance agencies have always continued and continued. In both the days of the Istiklal War and the traitor attack on July 15th, it is above all recognition that our religious officials have carried out their mission against our nation. It also publishes sources and scientific works in the process of spreading religious knowledge through its publications, which transmits the universal messages of our religion through radio, television, and religion to all parts of the community. The district, district mufti, educational centers, foreign religious affairs are organised as consultants and attachés. A state that does not have a religious organization in the world has not been in history, nor has a nation in modern times, nor will it ever be until the Day of Judgment. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Many debates have taken place on this pupil institution, such as some of these: those who say that it is against secularity that the State Department of Religious Affairs should remain in state order and receive a share in the general budget; those who say that a political power organization cannot be trusted in religion; therefore, it is necessary that religious affairs be left to the congregations; that it be carried out in harmony only with a regular organization; and the majority who accept the opinion that it is possible to be carried out of the Ministry of Diyanet jobs even if it is a deterrent of knowledge, governance and fiscality. Such an opinion was presented in the 1st Church of Religion, which was gathered in 1993. Turkey is not Iran, Israel, the Vatican and France, and it will not be; secularism is unique here, unique to us; 2 religious holidays are also our two national and official holidays. Everyone with understanding and understanding understands what that means. Don't play with the codes of state and society. If we open the door to unaccounted negativity, you'll be under, we'll be under, we'll be under, we won't be able to get up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0286par0139	Here, round it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0285par0140	A lot of friends said whatever they wanted here. I don't think they've learned anything from the treason attempt and the danger of ISIS. I would also like to remind our chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs here, along with his precious preparedness, that the staff must be efficiently employed. For some reason, the mosques are empty of staff and idle staff, and on the other hand, plenty of mosques waiting for staff and staff. And again, unionisation in the Ministry of Religious Affairs has caused divisions and conflicts between officials. There must also be a solution. And once again, our institution has grown, and within that size, it is imperative that inspection committees be formed to provide control in some major provinces and regions, and it is time, and it is time, and it is time.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0286par0143	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0285par0144	When this organization arrives today, I give my regards to all our elders and our people, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who have worked so hard to achieve this power, and to our nation, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, here. I salute from the president to his staff, all of our religious officials, with respect, with conversation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0286par0147	Karabük MP Niyazi Günşan is in charge. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0287par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the High Council of Religious Affairs. I salute your high council and our beloved nation with respect and respect. The Ministry of Religious Affairs is an important public institution of our state, founded on March 3, 1924, to carry out the affairs of Islamic religion's religious, religious and moral principles, and to enlighten the people with the right religious knowledge and to manage the places of worship. From the day of its establishment, the two fundamental pillars of Islamic religion are the Koran and the Sahib of the Prophet. While presenting their services, the Ministry of Religious Affairs embraces a united, hugging, and encompassing understanding. For the presidency, these issues are among the unresolved sensibilities. The presidency, which served with limited resources and few staff in the early years of its establishment, is the only institution to provide public service until it reaches the most remote part of our country today. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has now become an organization that is trying to serve not only on the borders of our country but on the scale of the world. From Africa to Asia, from Europe to America, it operates humanitarian and social aid activities, primarily as a religious service in more than seven continents and over 100 languages. Members of parliament, important decisions have been made in the Eurasian Islamic Cross, the African Summit of Religious Leaders, and the 6th Church Meeting in recent days, which has been demoralised and periodically organised by the President of the Religious Affairs. I wish that the decisions made were good for our country, for our nation, for our citizens abroad, for our hearts and for our geography and for our relatives. It is our sincere wish that decisions be carried out immediately. The Ministry of Religious Affairs aims to provide our people with sufficient, equipped, and better-trained religious officials in the face of developing and changing circumstances. The presidency has been trying to meet this need with service education and higher residency centres so far, but it is our basic desire that the matter of the Dianet Academy, which has been on the agenda for a long time to increase its efficiency and efficiency in the ministry, should take place immediately. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has published several works from sources to scientific works and children's books in order to get religious information right. The works he publishes are written by experts in the field and studied in lines. The reputation of the work presented by the presidency with that understanding is satisfactory. The procedure and seriousness of the Head of the Committee of the Study and Charms, which is under the presidency of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, followed by the printing, examination, and sealing of the Qur'an, is above all recognition. Dear lawmakers, the existence of the President of Religious Affairs is to provide our people's needs for religion and to provide for it. On the night of July 15th, the President of the Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0288par0160	Here, pick it up, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0287par0161	Religious officials have encouraged our people to take a bold stand against the treacherous enterprise with the floods and the oppressors they read in all the mosques across the country, and as always, they have succeeded in standing by the unity and unity of our nation. Dear lawmakers have kept their line today from the founding of the President of Religious Affairs, who has had ninety-five years of experience. In this regard, the position of the President is important. Today, the chaos that we watch with sadness in many Islamic countries, especially near and near our neighbors, tells us what it means to be an institution such as the President of Religious Affairs. Therefore, if we find out why the President of Religious Affairs was founded, we will understand why it has to happen; over 90 per cent of his budget is a staff share.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0288par0164	I've given you a deadline, Congressman, and we'll give you an extra minute, so wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0287par0165	It is admirable that the chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is responsible for the union of society and its purpose to live together. I offer my respects and respects to all those who served from the first President Rifat Effendid Rifat to Ali Erbaş. I wish mercy to those who enter the afterlife, and good health to those who live. I wish for the good of our budget, for the good of our great nation, and I salute your high council with respect and respect, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0288par0168	The order belongs to Çorum MP Erol Kavuncu. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0289par0171	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group, based on the budget for 2020 of the President of the Religious Affairs. I salute our General Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the need to believe throughout human history, and the phenomenon of religion, depending on that, is at the top of the most important realities of individual and social life. Since the release of this sensitive area is the basis for abuses and deviations, it is established in 1924 as the President of Religious Affairs to regulate this area and to meet the public's demands on religious matters, and has the right pride of being one of the most reliable state institutions in his mission and service for the past 90 years. It is one of the most important architects of social peace that is focused on the human-centered ministry, which is based on two fundamental sources of religion, the Koran and the circumcision, the 14 - century religious experience of Muslims, and the collective savings of mankind. In this area, as in Turkey's 81 provinces, more than 85,000 mosques, girls-men's Kur'an courses, religious youth centres, student dorms, family and counselling, services for our people continue through many institutions and institutions, through our mufticies in my constituency, as well as through Turkey's 81 provinces. Dear lawmakers, the existence of the President of Religious Affairs is one of our nation's greatest possibilities. Today, the fact that the conflict over religion in many countries does not find makeup in our country is proportionate to the existence of this institution. The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has always been on the side of our nation in the most difficult times from our national years to July 15th. It is impossible to forget the resurrection and resurrection of our imams and muezinis in the July 15 coup attempt to stop the coupes from stopping the coups. Dear lawmakers, one of the other expectations from our chairmanship of Religious Affairs is that he will take more initiative in social matters, more tasks and responsibilities, as well as what we consider to be a real matter of family, children, young people. This year, the presidency set the theme for the meeting of the Mevlid-i Nebi Week as "Our Prophet and Family," which included important activities during the week, congratulations and thanks. However, our presidency should not limit its activities to a week, a month, a year, but keep such an important subject on the agenda and continue to guide the community. Because if the family that we're dealing with is gone, our hopes are gone, our futures are gone, our futures are gone. Dear MPs, our mosques... Yes, our mosques are the center of our civilization. On the other hand, it is unfair to think of our mosques as a place of worship where we pray and scatter. If our mosques are not filled with the joy of our children, the excitement of our youth, the experience of our pyramids, the kindness and skill of our women, then that mosque is in our eyes and empty in our hearts. Again, let our presidency bloom with children in the past years. Let our mosques bloom. He had signed important projects with his theme. It is our greatest desire to continue this and so on. Because the largest fortunes, capitals of nations, are not just subterranean riches, bridges, dams, but the most well-developed, well-equipped young generations. In this context, praise be to God, we have more young populations than about half of the world's 200 countries. Our eyeballs are the primary and primary responsibility of the institutions and organisations concerned, especially us, MPs, who are to be raised as equipped, qualified, members of our young, country, nation, state, flag.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0290par0181	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0289par0182	With such feelings and thoughts, the great God of the Quran often gives thanks to the religious volunteers, who have carried out the responsibility of the Muslim people, who have done their duty to spread good and forbid evil, who have sacrificed themselves at all levels of our organization, who wish our budget of 2020 to be a blessing and a blessing, and I salute our coven and our mighty nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0290par0185	In order, it belongs to İstanbul MP Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0291par0188	I salute the Veteran Assembly and its deputies. I have received a pledge from our group on the budget for the State Archives Chairmanship of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2020. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, a stable march of futures is possible with the understanding of history and history. The most important way to know the past is to record, protect, and study the archives in a very detailed way that is possible. As for our archive history, five centuries have been looted from Turkish history in 1931. The headlines, which are often described by our ore archive, which is not in any country in the world. It is a sad story of an archived murder that was accidentally witnessed by historian Abraham Hakkı Konian, who was revealed by his accomplice, Javedet. It's the story of the great civilization that was carried from Sultanahmet Square to the carts of alemdar Street, like a heavy load of hay, when the children were thrown down the road from Alemdar Street, each of which was perhaps the golden key to a treasure, where millions of precious documents were exposed to the Vinegar Station, where the land train was pulled from it, and then sold to the paper scrapers in Bulgaria. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank God there's no more old Turkey. Like everything that's been lifted up and renewed by the zeals of the casts who believe in the Great Turkey ideal, our newly built archives now dazzle the cellars. Those who condemn our archives to the damp dungeons, and now from even the most luxurious hospitals of our time, who are comfortable, healthy, and in the care of the operating room, who carry our lines of civilization, don't stop throwing mud at our magnificent archive buildings. While we're discussing the archive, we're also building an archive to the future as we speak. Everything we've talked about is being recorded, and it's going to cost history, and it's going to create an archive. In this sense, during budget talks, I would like to address the archives where a group of opposition members who had their backs on the American flag and the American gun in one hand are so persistently trying to build an archive, that they will not be left in the clean archive of facts, such as one man's war budget. Dear lawmakers, we are children of a great civilization of mercy. The greatest evidence of this, no matter how much it's burned down and sold to scrap, is our great archive treasure. Today, in our fertile geography, where we're trying to make the world's most troubled region of imperial forces and collaborators, blood, tears, the most modern forms of physical spiritual rape, trying to make an experimental board of all kinds, it's not possible to get even the simplest knowledge of the past without the archive we have. Just as the world needs our archives, humanity's salvation is certainly about meeting and applying our values of civilization. Here, the C.E.O. is a sacred burden on our backs to deliver this civilization's values to humanity, which is all that humanity needs, struggling in the swamp of imperialists and collaborators. We are aware of this blessed burden that will not be for everyone. The only thing that the global mafia fears is the sacred burden on our backs that comes from tens of thousands of miles away and sows unrest in our region. So they're constantly trying to put their co-conspirators to trial in our geography. Fate, our grandfather has come and set up a tent on this hyena route. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Even though they've been drooling around our tent for a hundred years along with humanity's troublesome global hyenas and collaborators, Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the only man in the history of the Republic who has served the longest in the history of democratic elections and the public.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0199	The confession of one man came.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0291par0200	...and as friends and friends and friends, I declare that we have neither a tent nor a pebble to abandon these hyenas with our nation, and I wish our budget to bring blessings to our nation and to our country, to humanity.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0202	Mr. President, let's just say with the precision of Miss Özlem -- perhaps she'd like to correct herself -- let's leave a sentence in the account. If she says that, I'll give her a political answer. But on the stand of this House, the only man in the history of the Republic who's gone and won the people's love is the one who's served...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0291par0203	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0204	If it's yes, I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0291par0205	Yes, he's the only man who's ever won the public's love, he's elected, he's come democratically.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0293par0206	He said the longest he had stayed.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0207	On this parliamentary stand, there was a statement accusing all presidents and prime ministers of not winning the public's love, not serving the public, starting with Ataturk.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0293par0208	He didn't say anything to them, he called them Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was the longest.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0209	What you call one man, a...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0293par0210	What's the matter with you?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0211	Look, I don't know if he's down with his own game if he's playing a sound game. If it doesn't, we'll respond politically. You'll suffer, there's nothing to be done.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0293par0213	Give it to me, okay, give it to me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0214	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0294par0215	My free man...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0216	You have no right to call me my freedom!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0294par0217	Mr. Ozgur, Mr. Free Private, don't be a tease; it's obvious what I'm saying!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0292par0218	The group heard from the Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0295par0219	Wait a minute, guys, wait a minute... In order to speak, it belongs to Khakat MP Yusuf Whiteıt. Here you go, Mr. Whitey.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0296par0223	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the President of the National Court. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching over us on their screens, with the most heartfelt of feelings. As I begin with my words, I remember the day of death, the day of the rebirth, the day of the resurrection, the day of his death, the day of his death. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our written works, our archives, our libraries, our palaces, mansions and muscles, are a large portion of our historical heritage. These artifacts are the most precious treasure of a nation without hesitation, the memory of the state's existence, and also the common cultural heritage of all mankind. It is a matter of special importance throughout the world, as it is in our country, that historical and cultural heritage be preserved and given to future generations in the best possible way. On this road, the head of the National Government of Palaces operates on the purpose of maintaining palaces, mansions, muscles, museums and historical factories, maintenance, repair, museums, and protecting all of these structures by sticking to their cultural and historical backgrounds and restoring them. There are thousands of artifacts left in every corner of Anatolia by ancient civilizations. Therefore, we have the Meric Bridge, the Bosnian Mostar Bridge, the Malabadi Bridge, which was built in the Artuklu period. The first university of Anatolia, the Yaşıbasan Medresesi in Niksar, and the Ulucami of Divrik, which was built by Ahmet Shah; Gevher Nesibe Hospital; and We have Bitlis El Aman Khan. Sumela Monastery, Ayasofia is ours. The waterways that bring water to Mecca are ours, the Hürrem Sultan Ashhouse in Jerusalem. Ani and Deyrulzafaran in Mardin are ours. We have Darülaceze, which is built by Abdulhamit Khan, whose synagogue is in it, and his church, and his mosque, and a house of love for the orphans. The Edirne Great Synagogue, which was destroyed yesterday, restored today by the AK PARTY, is ours. Hanefi, the mosques of the Shafii, and the House of Yenikapi are also our civilisations. We have the great architect Sinan, who left more than 375 things, including Solomonia and the masterpiece of the world, Selimijah. The Balyan brothers, such as the Dolmabahçe Palace, the Valide Sultan Ortaköy Mosque, the Çıryaran Palace, and the Beyşbeyi Palace, are also ours. If you don't look inside history, there is no artifact. The last architect of Osmanlı, the first architect of the republic, architect Kemaleddin, is also ours. Mr. President, valued MPs, as it is known, in all the geography of Anatolia, the Balkans, for short, where a historical inn, the bath, the caravansaray, mosque, the mosque, the fountain, the fountain, the chassis, the deruletphal, daruleytam, Darulkura, darulhadis, the bimarhane, the hospital, the medrese, the marketplace, the marketplace. They're all monuments, they're all masterpieces. The law, the law, the law, the law, the law, its exposition, its felicitousness, its bingo, its candlesticks, its image, its manuscript, the Korans, the hand-carved carpets, the rugs, our civilization, and there is a need for them. We are a civilization that still lives with Yunus Emrems, Matrons, His Majesty Hajji Bektas, Hajji Bayram Velis. Here we are, determined and determined to live, to claim, as it is, the legacy of the kingdom, the master of the horizons, in order to retell and tell the modern world what is ours and what is ours.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0297par0229	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0296par0230	Mr. President, I don't want to go past those who accuse us of genocide, who don't bother to look at their history: the history books will always write this nation as a nation that fights alongside the oppressed, arm in arm, with them. We'll continue to be with the underdogs, just like yesterday. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the budget we're discussing would be a blessing to our government and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0297par0233	In turn, it belongs to Salih Cora. Here you go, Mr. Cora.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0298par0236	Salih Cora, come here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0299par0237	Mr. Cora, Mr. Cora...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0300par0238	Mr. Salih, Mr. Salih, what are you doing?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0298par0239	Salih Cora, come, we'll make a statement.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0302par0242	Mr. President, it hasn't started yet. It hasn't started yet.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0303par0243	Mr. Salih.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0244	Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0303par0245	Mr. Salih, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0246	Guys, I'm a member of the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0304par0247	Your posture is enough, Mr. Cora.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0248	Friends, AK PARTY has 300 MPs. I may get my turn once a year, but you may get your turn five or six times a year, so be careful.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0305par0249	Mr. Salih, we'll give you back all the words you've been saying for a year.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0306par0250	We won't make you talk.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0251	You can talk to me once, but after that, I'll make you look like shit, and you'll be surprised.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0305par0253	That's not Solomon Noble, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0307par0255	Mr. President, start over.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0305par0256	It's one thing to live and run. You can't carry the insult of executives into living.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0257	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0305par0258	That's an insult to make it work. It's not the language of the law, it's the insult of conduct.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0259	Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0308par0260	They love you, they do things for him.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0305par0261	Mass extradition, sir, collective extradition. Mass refunds for a year of what he's been saying to our group.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0262	Mr. President, again...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0308par0263	Let me start over, okay.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0301par0264	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0309par0265	Every time we're on the stand, you talk back to us.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0310par0266	Mr. President, you just gave him five minutes, and he's out of a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0311par0267	Wait a minute... wait a minute... We're starting the clock again, guys.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0312par0269	Mr. President, I agree that bullying is a terrible thing, and I'll be a little more careful. [[AK PARTY, CHP and HDP]] Dear friends, I have made a pledge on the budget of the President's Strategy and Budget President. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our highly valued deputies. We held a referendum on 16 April 2017, thanks to our beloved nation, and in this referendum, we moved on to the Presidential government system. A new management structure has formed, along with the presidential government system. Together with this new management structure, we have made radical changes in public administration. The number of ministries has dropped to 16. In addition, nine committees were involved in developing political proposals. In addition, four different offices as a country have been established that we refer to as special importance. Some of these boards are directly connected to the presidency, and some of the boards are involved in their own work. One of them is also the President of Strategy and Budget. The President of Strategy and Budget bears similarities to the former State Planning Agency and then to the nature of the Ministry of Development. However, with the mission of the Minister of Strategy and Budget, he has other tasks, along with his vision. I must say, there is a very special person in charge of this institution. With its acquish, its knowledge, its buildup, its equipment, its experience, its experience, its former undersecretary, political and bureaucrat, the former Minister of Finance Naci Agbal, has made significant contributions to the institution's institutionalisation in a very short time. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, speaking of the functions of our strategy and budget chairmanship in this minivale, he plays a very important role in the development and development of our country based on all the issues that he's been dealing with. Plans and programmes for balanced and sustainable development are among the main tasks of preparing upper policy documents. As you know, the last few months have been drafted by our 11th Development Plan, Strategy and Budget President in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. More importantly, the central administration we're talking about is still drafting the budget law proposal by our President of Strategy and Budget. In the same way, the draft of the final account law was also shaped by the President of Strategy and Budget. What we want to refer to here is that the institution operates very important functions. In addition to preparing the budget, the budget has a duty to allocate funds to all public institutions, to set policy and strategies in line with budget targets, and to monitor, monitor, and assess the implementation of these dedicated resources. In carrying out this task, the grant allocation is also carried out by this institution during the year according to public needs. For example, when a public investment continues to be made, if a resource needs to be needed and the resource is not enough, it is possible to be transferred from the reserve fund. In addition, the strategy and budget chairmanship work and regulations for the needs of public staff within the year of our public institutions and organisations. Dear friends, in the tradition of our President, with the support of our Minister, our beloved nation, we will continue to create important investments and services for our country by designing our investment plans in a holistic approach, using our resources effectively and efficiently, with an innovative structure based on expertise in the coming term. We're going to do this with the public, the public sector, and the private sector. Of course, the President of Strategy and Budget will be a guide and pioneer to the public and private sector. Dear friends, next year public investments will continue to increase. The central administration envisions a total of 88.5 billion public investments by public institutions and organisations. Here, there are many investments that will support the production industry, health-to-train private sector investments, boost competitiveness and efficiency in industry. While these investments are being made, the development of different financing models will also be done as a pioneer work as an institution. Dear lawmakers, our budget has a total of 700 billion budgets for public personnel. Sixty thousand new recruits are expected. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0313par0283	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0312par0284	The public and private sector also envisions a 5.5 billion source for RD work. Congressmans, I wish there would be a budget to serve the vision of Turkey, which is strong and prosperous, where production of the central management budget has increased, fair sharing is based. I hope the budget balance will be taken care of so that it stays with the goals we set. As always, I think we're going to care more about saving, with these feelings, I wish our budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I thank those who have done the work.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0313par0287	Osmaniye MP Mujahit Durmişoğlu is a member of parliament.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0314par0288	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the presidential communications presidency in 2020. I hereby salute you worthy members of our Veteran Assembly and my fellow saints watching us on their screens. The Council of Presidents and Presidents of the Constitution of Presidents of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the United States, which is dated 24/7/2018 and published in the Official Gazette 30488, has been established; it has established procedures and foundations for its duties and powers. The presidency has also been authorized to sign a five-year contract with the Anadolu Agency, with Article 14 of the ruling referred to, and to have control over the operation, budget, organisation and human resources management of the Anadolu Agency. In addition, Turkish Radio Television Agency has been taken into consideration with the Communication Presidency and with its presidential body on relevant and related institutions and organisations, and it has been appointed to the Editor-in-Chief of the Press Agency of the Press Agency of 195, as well as to the Editor-in-Chief of Communication. Communications President, number 14. Given the context of the duties given to him by the presidential decree, it has become our state's roof establishment and policy-setting centre, particularly public diplomacy, in strategic communication. In this framework, it has turned to a new structure in relation to the national interests of our country and our country's 2023 goals. Mr. President, at the World Information Society Summit, organised by the United Nations International Telecommunications Union ITU, the United Nations International Telecommunications Union has given our country the honour of receiving the Golden Globe Award for Perfection in the category of access to information, which includes 366 projects internationally. As part of public diplomacy activities, public diplomacy activities are being carried out by the presidency to explain Turkey's thesis in the domestic and international public, improve Turkey's perception of Turkey in all areas and ensure its qualified representation. For example, Turkey, which acted on the idea that justice would be done in the Spooner murder, has motivated international media and institutions with the right communication strategy. In this clear and transparent process of Turkey, the air that is being created against it has been distributed. Co-ordinating July 15th, 2019, July 15, July 15th and the National Union Day Events, and July 15th, were given to the Communication Presidency. In this regard, there have been nearly 1,500 events in the country and abroad. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are also acting for international media members in order to ensure that international public opinion is informed on the current and general issues of our country. It is organised by the Communication Presidency to share the experiences of local and regional media members and to exchange opinions with their colleagues in different counties, programmes to address professional and agenda issues such as local and regional media meetings, local media education, various panels, workshops, which can meet with politicians, senior bureaucrats, representatives of the public institution, academics and experts in different provinces. In addition, there are press cards, press traffic cards, and service-stamped passport services in order to strengthen the media. The Project I Have an Idea for My Country has been implemented by the Communication Presidency in 2019. With this project, individuals from all parts of Turkey and all parts of Turkey have been allowed to share their ideas and dreams of their country with the government's governance mechanism, and Turkey has tried to create a public awareness of thinking for the country. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are contributing to digital diplomacy activities as a public diplomacy actor. The framework provides training in the field of new media and digital diplomacy for presidential institutions, ministries and relevant organisations, and communication and social media strategies.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0315par0296	Round it up, Mr. Durmusoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0314par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition, the presidency conducts strategic communication efforts to support Turkey's foreign policy thesis, as well as duties to determine the rhetorical union and communication standards of all the state's units. I wish you the best and the best of the budget law proposal for the 2020 years of presidential communications presidency, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0316par0301	The order belongs to Mardin MP Genghis Demirkaya. Here you are, Mr. Demirkaya.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0317par0303	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Defence Industry President for 2020 years. I salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly. Our history is full of bitter experience, which means that Turkey must have its own resources in order to overcome risks and threats against its enemies and to provoke deterrence against its opponents. As a country, we did not forget the Johnson Letter in 1964, the arms embargo that we were subjected to in 1974 after Operation Peace of Cyprus. These are the embargos, which today have led to the establishments of our national pride, Tusash, ASELSAN, and ROKETSAN. From the beginning of the 1980s, our country has been tied up in all its operations against terror in the country and abroad. Just three years ago, during the busiest time of rocket attacks from the Syrian border, did our NATO allies not immediately withdraw the Patriot systems? Isn't it the YPG that attracted these Patriots, the ones that killed 12 people with rockets and mortars in Mardin's district, the ones who injured 21 children, the orphans who left three children orphans, the 61 people who had injured them, the ones who couldn't even call them a terrorist organization? Didn't they also kill two of our citizens and wounded 12 of our citizens by attacking civilians in my district of Kızıltepe, in the rural part of Kızlıca and Otluk? But whatever they do, whatever they threaten, Turkey is no longer Turkey of the 1970s. Because today we're not talking about German tanks, we're talking about our ALTAY tank, in a move to strengthen our defence industry from the beginning of the 2000s. We've powered our power with our FriTINA obses, our ATAK helicopters, the T70 general purpose helicopter. We are excited and impatient that our first general-purpose helicopter, which was developed and produced by local means, will become a mass production in 2021. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Until yesterday, we produce drones and drones that we haven't even been given for rent. Again, we are pleased and happy today for Turkey's high performance in its tests on low altitude and HİSAR mid-altitude systems, developed today to provide air and missile defences with domestic and national possibilities. We're working on the long-range air defense system. The EC PARTY met 20 per cent of Turkish Armed Forces' needs with domestic resources before they came to power, while today, with the support of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we reached around 70 per cent of Turkey, which could meet with national and domestic possibilities. Again, let us not forget that all military operations carried out in the country and abroad by the Turkish Armed Forces today used domestic products in the Firat Shield, Olive branch, Peace Fountain, Claw and Kıran operations. Everything produced from armoured personnel carriers to tires, drones to ammunition, missiles to national infantry rifles has been used in real operations and conflict environments. Turkey is not only in a position to consume its own production, it is a country that currently exports its products in the defence market, with five companies on the world's top 100 defence companies list. Let us not forget that Turkey is not only involved in the PKK's threat, but also in a deep risk pool, consisting of the PKK, the DEAŞ and many other terrorist organizations and various different states. We have the power to destroy all terrorist organizations with our native and national abilities. In view of all of this, he wishes that the implementation of the road map of the Defence Industry presidency, which Turkey has prepared for defence and deterrentism, should be a source of acceptance and good for the budget, especially to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Defence Industry presidency, and to all those who have done it, I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0318par0312	It belongs to Osmaniye MP İsmail Kaya. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0319par0315	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Justice and Development Party Group in the eighth round of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching over us on their screens. The Defence Industry Presidency continues with determination and determination to develop modernisation and technology to meet the needs of our army and other security units with domestic and national resources. As in the past, today there will be threats to our country's independence, integrity from within and outside. Our struggle to eliminate these threats will continue, as it has been so far. Dear lawmakers, during World War I, we wanted to buy two warships from the British government, and even though we paid in advance, these warships were not delivered to us. Even more painful, these warships, which we paid for, were used against us in the First World War. We were unable to effectively use our own weapons and equipment in Operation Peace in Cyprus, and we were unable to buy weapons and equipment from another country with our money, thanks to the embargo that America had imposed on us at the time. Again, all of us have seen recently that we have never been able to use the Heron priests from Israel effectively; either they did not fly at the altitude we wanted or they did not give us the necessary images in time. Praise be to God, now that we've built our own drones and drones, we're using them. For decades, our country struggled with Western arms embargos. As a result of further developments, our country, which decided to cut its own belly, began to make repeated moves in the defence industry. In this context, the locality and nationality rate of 18 per cent in the defence industry is now up to 70 per cent today, led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, when our government took office in 2002. (AK PARTY) This is a sign of our independence. "With this parable, the sentence will find fevz felez-ü falsah/be ready if you want it to be peace-free." In today's Turkish, all governments find the achievement of salvation as an example, and if you want peace, be prepared for war. Our Turkish defence industry lives in its golden age during the AK PARTY. This performance of our defence industry in recent years has also been positively observed in counterterrorism operations. In Operation Firat Shield, we signed successful operations in Operation Olive Dalli, and in other cross-border operations, and in a very short time since we effectively used our domestic and national products in Operation Peace Fountain, which our Turkish Armed Forces successfully carried out. Very valuable lawmakers, major investments have been made, national weapons have been developed. I can give you a lot of examples, but I just want to talk about one. In our country, the first armed drone to fire from the air has completed its SIHA testing flights; this model is capable of attacking. With these features, he will be able to carry out some of the tasks made by fighter planes, thus reducing the burden of fighter planes. We must all enjoy the pride of being one of the three countries that have developed drones in this class in the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are able to act together when it comes to national issues and security of our country, although we occasionally disagree with other political parties, so I thank the other political parties who support us very much. Our Defence Industry President has begun to sign important export achievements over and over again, beyond his own needs. The stronger your defense industry is, the stronger your country will be. Today, there is a strong Turkey with a strong leader and a strong army; in the foreign markets there is a strong Turkey that can compete with the global players we call the world giants. Mr. President, this budget is a local and national budget; this budget is a budget that crushes the head of terrorism; this budget is a budget that Turkey wishes our budget for 2020 is a much stronger future, and I salute our beloved nation, who is watching us at the beginning of the Veterans Assembly and the screens.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0321par0327	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0330	Mr. President, we have listened carefully to the friends of the Justice and Development Party, and we have some objections to the words of our two deputies. First of all, our friend Mehmet Akif Yilmaz in particular says that these, these, these are the words of the West. ▪ Dictatorship is the good fortune of all national leaders who act independently, take bold steps in accordance with national interests. Today's processes in Latin American countries are the most obvious examples. Once, if he meant, because they were interested, Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro was forced to leave the country during his time, 2.4 million people were forced to leave the country. The country is struggling with hyperinflation, inflation has seen 83,000 per cent. In 2019, they had to do five long power cuts across the country. No, the other countries and leaders he meant were in the Human Development Index, such as Colombian 79, Peru 82, Venezuela 96, Paraguay 98, Surinam 99, Bolivia 99, Bolivia 114, Guyana 123, and there are always criticisms from the only man in these countries.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0322par0334	Brazil, you know, Brazil.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0335	I'm counting them all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0322par0336	Leaders of the Labour Party... you know very well.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0337	My answer isn't for you, it's a serious issue, it's not for dilutement.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0322par0338	Was that gay? I'm making a point here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0339	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0323par0340	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0341	My dear President, the one-man criticism in South America is to see where those only men in South America are taking their country. I'm just saying, don't take your eyes out while you're doing your eyebrows. Tomorrow you'll get a lie wrong, you'll get a word out of the country, you'll say those words as MP of the Republic of Turkey; then we'll have a serious problem, so I warn you. Here are the statements of Mr. Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı. My warning just now is that he probably doesn't want to keep those words in writing. I also saw Mr. Özlem the Rich try to intervene. If you call him Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the only man in the history of the Republic who has earned the love of the people and served in democratic elections, you will offend the people who love them from Ataturk (Ataturk) to Demirel (or Inönöne) to Menderes (Ecevit) to Özal (Ecevit), the founding leader of the National Movement Party, Alparslan Turkesh (Turkish). [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But after that, it's not going to be controversial, but it's something that I particularly like, which is the issue of the archives and the sale to Bulgaria in 1931. As someone who has carefully followed that issue, let me share this with you about one or two sources of memory and speed that I have access to, and it's very important that this Assembly has a lot of lessons to learn: One, the incident in 1931 is a disaster. In 1917, when I'm on the upper level of Ayasofya, when I'm being sorted out, these archives say: "The German King Wilhelm will come. Let me tell you, there may be a mistake here, I'll tell you your name in a moment. I know it's Wilhelm. They quickly throw it into a space with a shovel, rain it, rot it. The Ottomans also have this great problem, and then they move back to where the Congressman had just expressed it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0324par0346	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0347	A finance inspector is called in 1931. They tell this finance inspector: "This is what they call a long-term, long-lost document or something like that, a report, a false report, a false report like that, and one is heard that, as he said, some of it spills when he's moving out, some of it goes into the fields, and it falls into the country's agenda like a bomb. But how does it fall? Why do I know so much about it? Saruhan Mebusu, the Manisa Mebusu Refik Shefket, will then take his first name -- his own party -- which you have never submitted a written question proposal at this time, or the AKP (AKP) -- gives a written request to the Minister of Finance of the CHP. He says...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0325par0348	What year is it?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0349	1931.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0325par0350	There's no other party.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0351	Okay, okay. He gives his own party a written question motion. You know, our party runs, we're the only party, we're the only man. He doesn't say, he gives us a written question motion. Look, I'll keep going. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's all there is to it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0326par0355	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0356	And May 4, 1931, this time, a heroic journalist, İbrahim Hakkı Bey, informs this motion in the Postal newspaper that it is a valuable document sold by Okka. Then, when he hears the matter, Muhammad Cevdet sends a heavy telegram, whether or not it's in the government's opinion; or rather, he sends a telegram to the Inönu, thinking that he didn't get it, he sends the telegraph text by hand as a letter. 10 May 1931 is the third Assembly of the CHP. The letter is delivered to the Inönon. During the Council, the Innu is informed of the situation during the 3rd and 8 days of the Grand Assembly and immediately intervenes. After the job, Mr. President, you know what? Former Ottoman Mebusu Panço Dorev, then Bulgaria...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0326par0359	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0327par0360	So what now? Isn't it true what we said?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0361	Wait, wait, I'm telling you; I'm telling you, listen! Listen to me!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0328par0362	Let's get this over with, Mr. President. All right, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0363	We've come to a precious place. In 1930, Poncho Dorev went after this archive in Istanbul, and they planned a scheme, and they did a lot of work, and they went on this road to get the archives. As a result of the investigation -8 rapid measures -- the microfilms of the document are all tried to be taken to Turkey in two years. With the suspicion that a significant amount remains there, the delegation will be formed between us and Bulgaria with the intensive diplomacy of the Inönu, and with a bit of harsh diplomacy. Two years later, it is said that in the case of 21,134 folders, the portion of the document was returned to Turkey by Bulgaria. The Bulgarian government buys these papers from the company and buys them in its own library after Turkey's proof in Vienna that the material is valuable.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0329par0367	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0368	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0330par0369	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0370	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0331par0371	Ahmet Bey, wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0320par0372	We're not talking about that. He'll take it to his library, send out the microfilms. The Innu government isn't satisfied with it, and the significant amount is taken back, but there's always doubt. Ha, last but not least, I believe: a motion for questions, a free column, 1931, Turkey... says in the memory of Muallim Cevdet: "I am waiting for a substantial slap from the government in the result of this full, angry letter written by the government, but I am told by the Council of Ministers 17 months later that I am appointed president of this committee. I recognized Ismet Pasha that day. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0332par0377	Thank you very much. Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0333par0380	Mr. President, thank you. It's a long story, obviously well studied.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0334par0382	I just said it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0333par0383	Now, Mr. President, Mr. Special is making a tactic that says, "Now, he's listening to the conversation with his own horn." It's got words, triggering sentences, words that he likes. There are words, not even sentences; for example, the didictator. Mr. Pine is looking this way and speaking in his speech, the only man the people's favorite... is taking this place right away. But once he buys this place, he builds on it what he wants to say.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0334par0384	And I'm getting a report, and I have a bad habit.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0333par0385	Wait, I'm gonna do the same thing right now. Now, here, in the speech of Mr. Akif Yilmaz, it is clear what he means. I mean, for once, he doesn't have to set an example for us in South America. So the issue in South America is that the problems with the government there are one dimension, but to get rid of them, it's one thing, especially when America declares them dictators in the world. Moreover, when he declares them dictators, he tries to strike them there, so the main problem of South America is that he's been struggling with coups for years.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0334par0387	That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0335par0388	That's what your preacher says.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0333par0389	Let me finish what I have to say. It's the public out there, rather than the people in that country, who have been struggling with the blows and branded their leaders out of their own country. That's what he means. I listened to the speech. This does not show that those countries do not have problems with governance within themselves, this is another dimension. The main issue is that the foreign public, especially for all of these locals, who are trying to do a national job, is that the public has branded the didictator. Now, I'm thinking, when did the word "diktator" come up in Turkey? It's definitely after the incident with one minor. So, from now on, the world is in public, in newspapers like this, in big newspapers...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0336par0392	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0333par0393	In fact, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands have campaigned through our President. This is the only man. The words, the concepts, have been copied over them, and they have buyers in our country, unfortunately. Now, let's go to Mr. Piney's speech. Mr. Piney chooses his own sentences, of course, and he certainly considers himself speaking in the way he wishes. What he's trying to say here is that this is the longest time in the history of the Republic -- that is, the longest time -- and with the love of the people, the person who comes with the election -- the emphasis is that it's a matter of the longest time. But just put it on there, stick it to another word and say a lot of things about it... Now, about the last thing you said about the archives. In the case of the archives, when you look at the whole story, it's important to be glad that at the end of the day, there's a zeal for archives. But there's no second alternative, there's only one party. What you call the state is already the party, the CHP party state. There is one party; the governor, the mayor; there is no one else; the President, the Prime Minister, all members of the same party; there are no other party members; there are no free elections in Turkey. He's part of the same team that's asking the question, giving the answer, where they've never been. So one of the parties is no more valuable, so, wow, what did Innu do? It's not a question of anything. There's no other way, that's how the system works.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0337par0396	Solved the problem, went for it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0333par0397	Bravo, problem solved! But the one who made the mistake at the end of the day... You're throwing it to the Ottomans. In Ottoman, we'll see, o mebus, et cetera, mebus... Gene, there's a way to discredit the Ottomans, and that's another matter.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0338par0398	It's a defense form.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0337par0399	1917, Ayasofya...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0333par0400	I feel the need to answer because you're bad. First, you stop being aggressive. So, Mr. President, let's not tweeze the words here and set the stage for what we want to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0339par0404	Well, thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0340par0405	Only by mentioning my name...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0339par0406	He gave me the answer. Mr. Free appreciates you bringing it up. There's nothing to say, Mr. Piney.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0340par0407	It's mud you're all about!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0341par0408	Is that mud?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0340par0409	Mud, mud.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0341par0410	You threw mud, we cleaned it up again.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0340par0411	I'm telling you, it's not for nothing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0341par0412	You can get a master's degree.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0340par0413	I did it, I'm a CHP professor, alhamdulillah. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0342par0454	İstanbul MP Ahat Andican on behalf of the Good PARTI Group. Here you go, Mr. Andican.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0343par0457	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I will not talk about the budget of 3 billion and so-and-so because of the vanity that Mr. President is required for his reputation, but instead I will talk about a project that will put a lot more weight on our nation's backs: the Canal Istanbul Project. The Canal Istanbul Project is a project presented by the government as a project for civilization. Unfortunately, this project betrays Istanbul's history, ecosystems, our people in Istanbul, the Turkish economy, foreign politics and the future of the Turkish nation. Istanbul itself, with its geographical structure, is a single historical heritage in the world, my friends. This project eliminates this feature; that's the historical direction. The region's ecosystem is failing. For millions of years, there has been a balance between the Mediterranean and the Aegean, with cross currents between the Black Sea and the Aegean. Once you open this system, this balance will soon be broken, and Marmara will become uninhabitable for all living things. With this project, dear friends, the people of Istanbul are being betrayed. Because by increasing the city's population to over 20 million people, it will make it uninhabitable and condemn millions of Istanbulers to live on an island. With this project, the farmland will be cemented, and new settlements will cause natural and environmental slaughter. Istanbul's water safety is betrayed because Lake Küçükçekmece, the Sazlıdere Dam will be destroyed, Lake Yakos will be salted, underground waters will be cut off, and more than 30 percent of Istanbul's water supply will be destroyed. If you recall the President's comment on the recent drought, the thirst will be used as material in the upcoming general and local elections. Members of parliament, this project also betrays the Turkish economy. Before the elections of 2018, the Panama Canal, which made Panama (Panama) before the elections of 2018, spoke of Sueş as a project that made Egypt or developed its economy and presented Canal Istanbul as a project to get ahead of these channels. In addition, sources of power pump into the public that there will be $6 billion a year in revenues from this channel. Dear friends, a ship passing through the Panama Canal earns 13,000km and the Panama Canal's income last year is $3.1 billion. On the other hand, the Suez Canal earns 7,500 kilometers, and last year's earnings are $5.9 billion. Turkey must receive an average of 150,000 dollars per ship to make $6 billion, if we take into account the claims of power and the 40,000 number of ships last year. Now I'm asking you: why would a ship that, according to Montrö, can cross the throat for free, pay $150,000 not to wait just a day or two if it can't get any distance through the canal? Even this data alone tells us that the President and his followers are cheating on the public. Yes, that's true, and there's going to be some serious economic gain with it; this project, probably in the form of public-special cooperation, is going to create a billion-dollar economy; it's inevitable. And in this project, in the form of public-special partnership, in the city hospitals, on the Yavuz Sultan Selim and Osmangazi Bridges, in the tunnel, on the highways, the lack of funding will be met from the treasury, the nation's pocket, and billions of dollars of money will be transferred into the pockets of contractors created by the AKP. But that's the debt he's going to pay, people, not just us, but our children and grandchildren. Foreign policy is also betrayed, my friends. Mr. Erdogan was describing Canal İstanbul five days ago when he said that it would be a political dimension, and hopefully with that political dimension, this Canal Istanbul will make a splash all over the world. So the political dimension of the project, which has been hidden by the power so far, has also been revealed. Yes, Canal Istanbul is actually a political project, a political project; it is an American project that deals with Montrö Agreement very closely, friends. If you remember the debates in the American Senate in 2006 that Montrö was no longer necessary in 2006, if you remember that then Ambassador William Ross of Turkey said to the public that American ships had the right to enter the Black Sea, and two years later, Mr. President brought this project to the front of this project as a result of the 2008 Russian-Georgian war, that the admirals of the Turkish army, who prevented American ships from entering the Black Sea on the basis of Montrö. The United States wants to bypass the Canal Istanbul, Montrö Agreement, and increase its presence in the Black Sea under NATO umbrellas, through countries like Romania and Bulgaria, who are NATO members. For this reason, the Canal Istanbul Project will seriously mortgage Turkish foreign policy. Members of parliament, the only thing the government offers as a basis for Canal İstanbul is that ship traffic is increasing in the Bosphorus of Istanbul, but it is a lie, it does not reflect the facts. Since I don't have time, I won't give you the numbers in detail, but Transport Minister Turhan says that the traffic that is 40,000 today will rise to 65k in the 2030s and then to 100,000 later. It also says 150 million tons of oil have passed. It's wrong, it's not right. The busiest transition from the Bosphorus of Istanbul has been made by 56,606 ships in 2007, and has been dwindling today. This has now landed at around 40,000. The number of tankers is also similar because oil products that used to come to the Black Sea are now transferred to the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline and to the Mediterranean, via the Republics of Turkistan, to China, and to the Baltic Sea via the Baltic centres. That's why things that are LNG have been reduced, because of natural gas projects. 150 million tons of oil don't go through, and it won't, because the only station that pumps oil into the Black Sea is now Novorossik. The oil pumped last year in Novorossik is 95 million tons, and the LNG pumped 20 million tons, totaling 115 million tons. So the Minister is misleading us. After the Independenta incident, dear friends, the Sea Traffic Charter was staged, radar and coded, so today, no serious accidents have occurred since then. Based on these developments, rational rules need to be enforced for throat traffic. A system can be created to minimize the risk of crossing if it is compromised by countries on the shore of the Black Sea. In other words -- I want to bring this point to your attention -- we're going to increase the security of the throat. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear friends, the Canal Istanbul Project is a project that will strengthen the hands of the United States politically, which will put Turkey in the grip of major states. Economically, it's a full-fledged runt project.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0344par0472	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0343par0473	I am, Mr. President. Therefore, I call this project The Canal Istanbul Project, not Istanbul. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] I would like to address the President: Come and give up your stubbornness, and listen to those who oppose the project, as you have always done, as men of outside forces, or as those who wish to prevent the development of Turkey. The project is a political project in Parliament -- and discuss it in public. I will do this project no matter what. Take it to the people, the people of Istanbul, the Turkish nation, and referenda. Let the nation decide, if the nation approves, this project will be a real Canal Istanbul Project, but otherwise, if it doesn't, and you do it anyway, this project will be recorded as the largest project in history. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0345par0479	The order belongs to Mersin MP Behic Çelik Bey. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0346par0482	Mr. President, I have been promised the budget of the National Intelligence Agency and the firm account law, and I give you all my compliments. As you know, the National Intelligence Agency, which heads the most important institutions of our state, has been under some structural changes in recent years. In fact, these changes began not in the last few years, but in the early years of the republic. After 1960, the status that has continued so far has been shaped. However, after July 15, 2016, the organisation of the Undersecretary was established in the form of the presidency. After the Constitution of 1961, I'd like to cherish the late Fuat East. The Agency, organized as Undersecretary, has taken on major missions in maintaining the independence and sovereignty of our state during the cold war. Anti-intelligence organizations have been trying to create a conflict environment by increasing their activities over the years, but have not been able to create a rift. Neither the Turkish-Kurdish nor Alevi-Sunni nor the leftist-right-wing conflict failed to make the imperialist environment very uncomfortable. Now, let's not forget that there are attempts to create other areas of conflict. We should also remember that the Syrians were especially introduced into us as a demographic threat. Dear friends, the MIT has been able to come through the period of the Republic, the struggle, Montrö, the Second World War, the USSR threat and oppression, the years of the United States, the post-1961 process, and the deadlines, the Cypriot Peacekeeping Movement, the beginning of the 12 September, 31st separatist uprising. After 2002, there was a different process, and the process witnessed a number of sanctions that were contrary to the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey. For the first time, the MIT has been put on the table with the PKK, which has been included in Oslo talks. For the first time, the MIT has been put in a position to receive instructions from the Imran villain. For the first time, the MIT has witnessed the Habur disgrace, showing how the government provides food for separatists. For the first time, the MIT watched the northern Iraq hepmerge enter from Habur, and reach Ayn al-Arabah, and also on the 29th of October Republic Day. For the first time, the MIT has seen the process of solutions and ultimately trench wars, and has also seen how its own staff were hanged or executed on poles. For the first time, the MIT has experienced the coup attempt of a religiously-referred organisation; after the initiative, it has also purged about 300 members of the PKK's terrorist organization who infiltrated it. The MIT, the largest spy organization of the century, has testified in these years. Dear lawmakers, the National Intelligence Agency continues its activities in line with our politics in and out of the country. It is one of the worst acts in the AKP (AKP) that personnel who have taken such sensitive and critical positions have been victimised by Å, which has been considered the largest spy organization since 2013. When they took the virus out of the agency, we got a big bill. MIT personnel must be compensated for their inadequacies. It was very nice of the Reyhan perpetrator, Yusuf Gentle, to be caught and brought to Turkey to be tried, to make the organization feel better. However, lack of personnel reduces the Agency's efficiency. Dear friends, it is not acceptable for executives who have no experience in the field to be deployed in Iraq for the transfer and management of operations and to have two MIT executives kidnapped by PKK terror organization on their way to Süleymaniye. This hostage situation that has been going on for several years must be terminated by our government immediately. With 1 MIT officer who has been kidnapped in Cizre, the number of people who have been kidnapped has been known to be three. At different times, there are soldiers, police and civil servants who have been kidnapped by PKK terror organizations in different locations. It's our basic desire to have our children taken hostage to their families. In this regard, it is imperative that we make the necessary initiatives in these matters. I have stated that MIT has suffered a lot from it, but the Agency must learn from it, not from other congregations or sects. However, our senses also point to the fact that we have been assigned to the responsible authorities to conduct MIT's personnel policy, and that there have been fluctuations. Hopefully, what we have is our basic desire to do if it's not true or if it's true. Dear friends, the MIT operates in the interest of national security and the national interests of the country, both internal and external; in addition to activities in the country's political, social, economic, security, military areas, it also works on energy, economics, weapons of mass destruction. Intel diplomacy, which has been highly developed in recent years, has had good results. Under the Astana process and the Sochi Covenant, the tasks entrusted to the MIT have reached a conclusion in Syria. This is also the nature of the employment work in the area of reducing tensions in Idlib. In addition, activities in Syria and Iraq, including the Afrin region, must be accelerated for the total destruction of the organisation. Dear friends, I've told you that studies for Å/PDY are important. It is imperative that all elements in the court be cleaned out, the police, the gendarmes, the Turkish Armed Forces. It is necessary to continue bringing in the members of the Ferhat who have been known to exist from abroad. Any measures against the DEA must be taken without negligence. In particular, the capture of Omar Yetek, Ithavi, Kasır al-Haddavi, Abu Hanife, Feri Rolis, code named Abu Hanife, has struck the organisation with a major blow. It is a success to have six persons in charge of immigration and logistics captured in Kayseri. However, how did they get here, and how they settled in Kayseri, should be questioned. In Cerablus, the capture of DEASH's arsenal also struck the organisation with a major blow. Operations against the DEA leader's family have also been successful. Meanwhile, our National Intelligence Agency continues to work in collaboration with MASAK. I mentioned the Cemal Spooner incident when the Interior Ministry budget was being discussed in the Commission, and I'm repeating it here again. This is a great loss of reputation for our country. In addition to intensive, secret service work for our country, the CDC activities of MIT are also needed to be increased. Unfortunately, Turkey has become a war zone, my friends. Besides, legislation on the privacy of personal data is indeed a matter to be boasted of. However, however, no matter how you work in the legal field, it is much more important to apply it. So despite all of this, we see illegal, illegal listening and monitoring activities in our country.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0347par0492	Pack it up, Mr. Steel. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0346par0494	Intelligence is the most important activity of a state. It's unthinkable to run a state without intelligence. There is no intelligence to intimidate the opposition; there is no political, economic listening. No economic colonization intelligence. There's no intel for a media operation. You don't do intel to pump fear. Intelligence can never be abused that way, only intelligence is being done with the thought of national targets. On this occasion, according to Law 2937, our National Intelligence Agency, like our other agencies, has many martyrs and veterans. I ask God's mercy for those who are left behind, and may they rest in the light. I'm saying that over 2 billion budgets from the agency aren't enough, but I'd like to wish you all the best. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0348par0498	In turn, Izmir MP Aytun Çiray. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0349par0500	Mr. President, in November 2011, we warned the Justice and Development Party's Government and lawmakers from this bench; we pointed out a very permanent, very bad side of the Justice and Development Party policies that were waiting for us. If you go with that head, you'll cross the forehead of future generations as citizens of a conspiratoric country, and you'll smear us with it. There was never a conspiracy in Turkish foreign policy, that's the real danger we're facing. Wherever he lays his hand, the Justice and Development Party, unfortunately, destroys it. Let us remember a little bit before the so - called revolution in Libya, which today turned Libyan into a pool of blood. A year before the so-called revolution, Mr. Erdogan went to Libya to receive peace and humanity from Gaddafi. Was there a democracy in Libya? Was Gaddafi a Democrat? But who cares! Just as they continued to have good relations with Assad, they did not care about democracy in Syria, then they accepted this award regardless of the existence of democracy in Libya. Then a certain operation was launched against Libya by the pilgrims in the analogy of Putin. That's what Putin said, it's a Crusade operation. Then Mr. Erdogan said, "What kind of nonsense is that about possible NATO operations against Libya? What is NATO doing in Libya?" Did he say it? He did. When he said that, it was February 2011. Then Mr. Erdogan, just as Assad had been, decided to take part in the operation, which Putin had compared to the Crusades in the Middle East, and this time, NATO must enter Libya to show Libyan belonging to Libyans. When he said that, it was March 21, 2011. Twenty days between words. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, let us continue to remember that Gaddafi, as any man, has the right to a fair trial, has been lynched without being put to trial. Friends, even I have a bad conscience in the face of violence against Gaddafi, whose dictatorship, their strangeness, which we never approve of. And before this man died, just like Assad, he spoke of his disappointment with Mr. Erdoğan, and his last words were to express his disappointment. We are not too interested in the example of Gaddafi. What concerns us is that this time you're in the process of getting involved in a new strategic depth business about Libya. Because when you're tearing things down, the demolition squad puts you up, but when it comes to sharing, they don't put you on the table, like in Syria. Our share falls to protect and protect the DEASH, and the destruction of them falls to Turkey, and the suffering of the martyrs. Congressmans, you were supposed to set an example for Muslim countries. Your hand didn't fare well. I don't know if God will protect the Muslims from you or what to say. Ever since you made the Rabia sign, Ihvan hasn't recovered. They lost in Tunisia; and Ihvan, who came in Egypt with the Arab Spring, ended with the blow of Sisi. The last remaining Ihvancı lives in Tripoli, Libya, which has been torn apart by AKP power, and on the other hand, the Hafter forces are resisting. In such a conjunctive, the Justice and Development Party is again seeking strategic depth. Yesterday, you brought the State of Turkey's Government and the Libyan State National Government of Covenant Security and the Military Business Union to the Foreign Commission's Law Proposal for Approvement. It was signed on April 4, 2012, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Military Education Business Association between the Libyan Government was approved in 2013 to contribute to the national reconciliation in Libya. The goal is to ensure that the unstable environment in Libya will be terminated immediately, but according to that agreement, military training would be done in Turkey, and now you have come with a much more comprehensive text -- based on the text in the Commission; this time, in case there is a demand, there are provisions for the establishment of a bilateral defence and security cooperation office. As always, Mr. Secretary and Mr. President are making different statements about this. Mr. Secretary said we wouldn't send troops, Mr. President said we could send troops -- in accordance with the text -- in the form of demand. Dear lawmakers, as Justice and Development Party members, you also use concepts of tremendous importance to our state and nation, such as Sevr, Montrö, Lausanne, and our nation, to create weakness. For example, Mr. President, during his meeting with the President of the Libyan National Covenant Council, Fayez al-Sarraj. How can you be so forgetful? Love is long gone, long gone. (Applause from the GOOD PARTY) Because we've torn Sevr. We haven't turned it upside down. In fact, we sent it back into the back pockets of those who scattered it and signed it, and sealed it with Lauzan. Meanwhile, both of our party's ambassadors, who are experts at this, think other statements are vague. In fact, we have not been able to understand the benefit of your efforts to send troops to Libya. Each of the world's powerful states, especially Russia, are supporting a group in the race to get a share of Libyan wealth and strategic status, but they're doing it covered, and we've fallen from the open with Qatar. Look, dear lawmakers, if you bring this tribute to the Parliamentary General Assembly, we'll tell you more about what you need, and we'll warn you. But we have a deep difference of opinion about what national politics is in foreign policy. For one thing, the basis of national policy is the republican foreign policy established by Ottoman Pashas who have passed through their image from six hundred years of Ottoman experience. It's a tradition. This is also secular foreign policy. Why is it secular foreign policy? Because in the past, in the Middle East, Turkey is the secular foreign policy that makes the Turkish state strong. When we were a negotiating country, we became a entity country because of these wrong policies. If there's going to be use of force in foreign policy, especially if there's going to be use of force, you're going to sit down with opposition parties, you're going to form this policy, and then you're going to call it national policy. First you're going to finish everything, then you're going to send the Secretary of State to give us a notice. It's not called national foreign policy, it's the policy of appeal. On the other hand, there's another incident you're involved in: the wrong foreign policies of the Justice and Development Party cannot be Turkey's national foreign policy, we don't accept it. You're going to do everything, you're going to do all the mistakes, you're going to end all of them, then you're going to force military intervention, which is where we've always been behind the Turkish army, and we're going to continue to be at that point -- and if you follow us to that point, you're national, if you don't obey us, you're illegitimate. You asked us when we were doing all the work, the mistakes, the faults? Despite all this, look, you've brought the agreement signed with Libya on naval jurisdictions, and the opposition has approved. Blue country approved, folks. Our problem isn't with the blue country, it's with what you're going to do next. We'll be on the side of right and against wrong. For what? For the high interests of the Turkish nation. Now, friends, even though I have more to tell you about this, I would like to finish by telling you a joke to sum it up: two friends were talking. One asked the other, "How is your wife?" He is well, but he is suffering because of his beliefs. When he asked, "What do you mean?," he kept wearing size 36 shoes, believing that his foot was number 36, but he actually wore size 40 shoes. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0350par0515	In turn, it belongs to Sakarya MP Umit Dikbayir. Here you go, Mr. Dikbayyr.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0351par0518	The great Turkish nation, the valued MPs, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the good PARTI Group regarding the defence industrial presidency budget. We have two ministries, one of which has a national term: National Education, one of which is National Defense. The Defense Industry Presidency budget is an important budget for our national security. We are talking about a budget that will meet the needs of the Turkish army, the oldest army in the history of the world, the second largest army of NATO, perhaps the most valuable of all, the Prophet, by his words, nine hundred years before the conquest of Istanbul, but when we look at the official figures, we are left in the same class as the world's number, which we set aside from the general budget of the two largest armies of NATO. Look, what's interesting is that it didn't happen in the budget of our National Ministry of Defense when almost all ministries had serious spending in their budgets. The money for 2019 is $46.5 billion, and the money spent is $29 billion. In 2019, the government does not spend $17.5 billion of its money for our defence, so it saves about $3 billion. Here, here's the cord. You've got $3 billion at your disposal, and yet you're taking our strategic factory Tank Palette to a private company because you can't find $50 million. You can't use your budget properly, so you expect us to get our hopes up. When this truth is naked in the middle, you scream when we say it. The question is very simple: why are you going after such an important factory for $50 million when there's $3 billion in the defense budget that you don't spend? Look, on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, I personally submitted a question asking, "How much did you give this place for?" I've made a motion to ask you to sit down, to talk, to turn around. You didn't agree. In response to power, he says: "It is a military secret of our national security, which cannot be explained." Yeah, well, as a representative of the great Turkish nation, I don't know this secret, nor does our beloved nation, who owns the factory, nor do you AKP lawmakers who even approve it. If I ask one of you, you won't answer. What kind of military secret is that people don't know about a foreign company that's going to invest $50 million? Do you consider the Turkish nation a national security issue? Again, you're making fun of our intelligence. Dear MPs, the strategic plant of the Turkish army, Tank Palet, has been moved. When we say, "The order of power stands up," they say: "It has not been privatized, it has only been a business era." A protagonist who considers five fellow businessmen greater than the nation and considers them more than the people's interests. Here, last night, the business man who shared with the Qatars was on the Ethem Sandzak screen, and he gave his belly to the government of the Republic of Turkey, the pleasure. As a citizen of this country, as a son of this country, I'm sorry, I'm ashamed. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Half the company he bought from the government for $200 million, three or five months later, half of it, half of it, he said he sold to the Qatars three or five months later for $300 million. Think about it. In a few months, the value of the company goes up to three times the money it gets from the government, but it doesn't actually come out, it's actually worth it. But it turns out that in a few months, the company that made $600 million was given to this businessman for a third. And they're handing over the $20 billion Tank pallet's right to run 250 tanks in 25 years to invest $50 million. Last night we learn that the number of tanks to produce in the first place is a thousand, so at 11 million euros, 11 billion euros worth of business, there is no such trade! Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the truth is clear. When you look at the timing, you get nauseous, and when you look at the address, you get confused. In September 2018, a $500 million gift plane arrives from Qatar. Two months later, a Qatar-owned partnership of Tank Palette begins to take over a company; they put 1 and get 100. Now, if you were a businessman, would you hand over your $20 billion factory to someone else to invest $50 million? I'm speaking to Ethem Sandzak. I'm calling from here: let him hand over a $20 billion factory to us for $50 million, I've thrown in the dollar, see if he'll hand it over. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, I ask you, is the factory of Ethem Sandzak (Ethma) worth more than the factory of this state? Answer me honestly, I want a really sincere answer to this. We're asking the minister of national defense who commanded the Turkish army, who says the workers' rights will be protected. Mr. Secretary, you're not a unionist. We call you national security, you call it the national defense industry; we call you the military secret, you work in union. For the Tank Palet Factory, they call it an old-fashioned factory. They just make palettes. They say, they underestimate, in a sense, they break the price. It's like the Tank Palette Factory is making us stand up. One of the most important weapons of the Afrin operation, the obus tanks were produced by the Tank Palet Factory, the Tank Palet Factory, which produced the Poyraz vehicles carrying ammunition for them. The President threw the first source there. The power and ally of the pencil sharpeners say such things, you'd think they were co-owners of the Qatar joint firm. They won't stop telling all kinds of lies to make the factory worthless. You're being disloyal to workers and engineers, ungrateful. Look, those people are so sad, you're so sad. One of the most important things about this is that two other major companies in Turkey entered the production tender for ALTAY tanks. Well, was there any information on the condition of that tender that the Tank Palet Factory would be earmarked for the production of ALTAY tanks? No, I didn't; I never did. If they knew, they'd give you a price for it. You've made a ridiculous tender. Now I'm asking: the factory is ours, the engineers are ours, the workers are ours, the machines are ours, but a company with Qatar will build tanks there and sell them to us... Mr. Fuat Oktay, Vice President, says you'll see how the Tank Palet Factory will grow. Mr. Oktay, I ask you, did you agree with that when your administration was being emptied out of Turkish TELEKOM, while your Lebanese partner took the money in his pocket and fled? What have you accomplished in Turkish TELEKOM, so that we can now believe your word about Tank Palet? We know you from TELEKOM, Mr. Oktay. If what you're doing is collateral for what you're going to do, then woe to you, Tank Palette. Look, gentlemen, take a good look at this photograph, this photo is our tank that was left there in 1974, in the Five Finger Mountains of Cyprus. The Tank Palet, which you despise today, is the result of the problems our heroic army faces at home, so it is established. A Sakaryan elder donated his land so that the factory could be built, built inside it with the money collected from the Sakarya people. Tell me who you're selling your shit to! Even if no one else does, our sisters, our mothers, who raised their teeth to build that factory and put their bracelets on the table will haunt you. I'm calling out to the president here: Actually, we're having a very painful time. They can't find $50 million in tank palettes, but they're putting $500 million in bagel debt on people's backs. Everyone in their right mind, including me, is asking about the Tank Paletin contract. A $500 million plane will be given a gift. Is it written in that contract? Or I fell in love as I saw Erdoğan. Such divine love. The words of the businessman who said, "Let all things be sacrificed to him." Look, it's very simple here. There is a struggle here, and let my presence be a sacrifice to Erdogan. Let my presence be a gift to the Turkish presence. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] There's a struggle, and we're gonna win this fight. When we see this fact, we understand better why they shout or why they shut up, because they don't like everything about Turk, because they can't think in Turkish, they can't live in Turkish; we also capture the silence of the mind, the mind that pursues Tank Paleti, everything that is Turkish. I want to finish my speech by carrying out a divine command, which is indispensable to me in a sense: I said, "They are silent about everything about Turk. " Look, our Lord, all believers are brothers. He commands. We understand from this commandment that there can be no discrimination among Muslims, but a government that opposes every value of the Turk is holding back his sensitivity to Palestine, Myanmar, Djibouti, from our Muslim brothers in East Turkistan. I pray for the mercy of our persecuted brothers from East Turkistan, who died, and of the Lord of the Alptekin, Jesus Joseph Alptekin. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0352par0540	Okay, go ahead and pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0351par0541	And I condemn and condemn the government of the AK PARTI, who discriminated between Muslims, who sacrificed even such a sacred matter to a Chinese-to-trade account. To prepare the budget of a ministry with a national title, and to speak correctly, you need to be able to think in Turkish and speak Turkish. Neither America nor Russia nor China says everything should be done by the Turk, according to Turk, for the Turk, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0352par0544	The order belongs to Müğla MP Metin Ergun. Here you go, Mr. Ergun.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0353par0547	I salute you all. I'm here to share with you our views on the budget for the presidency of the national palaces. As you know, on 16 July 2018, the President of the National Government of the Palaces was appointed under a presidential decree issued in the Official Gazette, on the basis of the administration and promotion of the National Courts. When the provisions regarding the duties and powers of the presidency have been reviewed, services such as the preservation and restoration of relevant palaces and cultural assets, the promotional activities of museums and the receiving of visitors have been predicted by the presidency. Honourable MPs, the palaces of our national assets, which Gazi Mustafa Ataturk, our Great Leader, has given back directly to the nation, along with the declaration of the republic, have been handed over to the monopoly of the decision-making of the bet. It's a tentacle on its own. The transfer of the palaces to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the institution of the will of the nation, is one of the most important symbols representing the institutional values of our republic. Today, our national assets, the great Turkish nation, are linked to the presidency with an administrative savings of running it. It is clear to me that our ancestors' national assets have been taken from the bosom of the Gazi Assembly, the seat of the national will, abandoned to the mercy of another palace, an institutional reflection of the power of the AK PARTI, so to speak, the will of our great nation has been taken. In addition to desecration of national sovereignty, the EC PARTI's government is drawn to the same concept of indelicateness and unqualified governance as national palaces, cultural beings, and historical monuments, where our civilization, our history, and our culture are proudly displayed throughout the world. It is a fact that our national palaces and historical and cultural beings are not just an epiphany of our glorious historical and state's administrative mechanisms, which have been stitched up over the centuries, the cradle of Turkish Islamic civilization; they are also a reflection of our consciousness, identity and aesthetics. It is clear that this legacy must be protected at all costs, and that the public authority has a great responsibility in this matter, but to include infidelity, rant accounts and personal interests in the preservation and restoration of our assets is a complete betrayal of our art history. Congressmans, we must remember that the preservation and restoration of our national assets, including our national palaces, must be carried out within a certain protection culture. The culture of protection is essential for a nation's understanding of art and aesthetics to be passed on to future generations. This understanding is an account for future generations, almost a balance sheet. We also regret to observe that 17 years of EC PARTY rule has failed to protect cultural assets. AS A GOOD PARTY, although we positively assess every measure and conservation process carried out on the basis of the will of the nation, the AK PARTI power has proven that it is not competent to preserve our historical assets, our national assets have not been preserved as they should have been. The 9th article of the Venice Charter, which is the most important text on the preservation of historical structures, states that restortion is a profession. Its goal is to preserve and reveal the aesthetic and historical value of the monument. Restoration is fundamentally dependent on original materials and reliable documents. Reconstruction should stop at the beginning of the hypothetical. Our sincere advice to you, as the GOOD PARTY, would be better if you didn't touch them at all, rather than doing art and history massacres under the name of art and history. Now, I'm going to try to explain to you how you destroyed our cultural assets with your unqualified sense of restoration, with some heartbreaking examples. For the first time, during your rule, the important works of Seljuklu, and Timur, who invaded the city in 1399, were admired, and the equivalent of Al-Kelebi (Kaliya Çelebi) could never be done again. The seven hundred and fifty-year-old Sivas Sky Medrese was painted in the minarets and in the minaret, with the mosaic technique decorated, the geometricly motile tiles that had been destroyed by the acid that was destroyed and not satisfied by its destruction. Frankly, in no time has our republic ever encountered such a power that lacks the sense of aesthetic and fine art. In this scope, the Seljukian tradition, which left us with the most important examples of Turkish state and administration, also received its share of Ottoman artifacts from the AK PARTI administration. The Ottoman Empire's last major monument structure in the Lale Age and one of the most prominent examples of the 18th - century Ottoman architecture, Isaac Pasha Palace, has been transformed into a freakish structure, a roof of glass under the name of restoration. This is the final state of the palace of Isaac Pasha, and this is how you approach our cultural heritage; this is the original version, and this is the last one covered with glass. It's called "restoration," which is called a massacre in the history of art. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] One of the most striking examples of your insensitivity against our art history is the glass doors and icy glass that were installed in the Iznik Ayasofya Mosque, which was transformed into mosques by Orhan Gazi in 1331 and became one of the outstanding examples of Turkish-Islam civilization. This is the case with hundreds of years of Iznik Ayasofya Mosque; again, the glass door is completely removed from its original. It is not important for the AK PARTI government to conduct conservation activities in the operating and personal restoration of restoration experts and protect our historical heritage. Obviously, the important thing for power is for the contractors to make a profit. There's no limit to the disrespect of art and history. When we look at the disgrace of the restoration of January's castle, which is located on the port of the Genevian people, the words are incompatible. This is how the Ottoman Empire became after the restoration of this important historical heritage, used by the Ottoman Empire to spy on attacks from the sea. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, a few examples I shared with you with pity reflect only the visible part of the iceberg. It is evident that even a small study could face hundreds of concrete restoration disasters similar to these examples. As a result, the issue of leaving national palaces and cultural assets belonging to the great Turkish nation directly to the saving of its existence does not contribute in any way to retain our historical heritage. In the hope that our reviews and findings will reach our country's best interests in the 2020 year budget, as we stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0354par0566	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Umit White, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. White.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0355par0568	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a pledge on the budget of the President's Strategy and Budget President on behalf of the PARTI, and I salute our Veteran Assembly. The great Turkish nation is the legitimate source of this great House and of us, and we are here to represent the will of this nation. Dear friends, budgets are documents that show where the resources will be collected, who will be spent, who will be provided for. The budget offer brought before us is a document that clearly reveals whose side the Justice and Development Party favours. However, budgetary rights, the control of power's budget, are one of the most important reflections of the will of the citizen. We're waiting here to discuss your budget proposal to meet the citizens' expectations of society, to discuss the public services and how you're going to finance these services, but I regret to inform you that we don't have that opportunity in this Veteran Parliament that you want to neutralize. I don't think lawmakers have enough conditions to use their budget rights. Congressmans, whether we support or not, we want to know how the government, which has the authority to spend and collect revenues from our parliament, uses this authority and how it will use it next year, in the name of the great Turkish nation. But as with the rest of our parliament's activities, we face the same attitude and behavior in the budget issue, which is the nation's right to control. The budget of 2020, which comes before us from the commission without being touched by its comma, which does not heed opposition's objections, will undoubtedly come to life with approval from our General Assembly. So we're actually going through a budget discussion process. I'm afraid that's even our position in trying to use the most fundamental principle of modern democracies, budgetary rights. During the time of Turkey's rule, the Justice and Development Party, which does not want to answer for anything, is not willing to account for the tax collection from the nation. We listen here every year to how to finance public policy and where to spend it, but when we see the heavy economic picture we face at the end of the year, we face the fact that it's not like this. We can't do much in the interest of reviewing, auditing the budget of our Parliament, the only ground where Parliament can use its powers. As you know, budget rights are the most basic democratic rights in the nation's care. In this democratic process, where we have to answer for every penny on behalf of the nation, we opposition MPs in parliament can't use this right, we can't learn how and where to spend Turkey's limited resources, we can't do the necessary inspection. You know as well as I do that you will not be able to meet this budget that you have submitted to our Parliament next year, and you will come to us with an additional budget demand. Because your 2019 budget is in place, so according to November data, your budget deficit is about 100 billion. I don't think this painting will change in 2020, and it's not hard to imagine that if the economic data is carefully examined, your 2020 budget will also be open, or even that deficit will grow. You'll also reduce the possible deficit to workers, civil servants, peasants, pensioners, electricity, natural gas, bridges and highways, and public and social security spending, as you've always done. This time there's no pay-per-view, no zoning pardons, no spare accents. When you think of,,,,,,, and,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Hopefully, next semester, you'll do the zoning peace with the mother of the Qatar Emir, whose land you've been dragging off the edge of your crazy project, because the nation has no choice but to carry you or Arab partners on its back. Dear lawmakers, we're constantly hearing the word "squeezy discipline" from the economic wing of power, but when we look at the budget, we see increases in pencils that don't match and we don't know if there's any public use. We can't understand that last year's $4 billion,805 million, covered funds, increased to $5 billion, 410 million in the new budget, and the amount of reserve funds of $7 billion, 318 million, went up to $8 billion,763 million. You won't believe yourself that the 2020 budget will hold, which you don't neglect to increase the use of back-up funds, even though you know it will disrupt budget discipline. It's obvious you've made a palace budget, and you haven't forgotten your followers by funding megaprojects. Congressmans, our country has been badly ruled for 17 years, its resources have been wasted. With the wrong economic policies you've implemented, Turkey has been dragged into a swamp. We depend on outside almost every sector, especially agriculture. Turkey's interest burden has been increased year after year instead of year after year, unemployment, poverty, and poverty. Now, I'm afraid this swamp we're all struggling with is your creation. You have not only changed the political system of this country, you have altered its economic settings, and you have established a new economic order, which only your allies feed on. Know that the Turkish nation is getting poorer in your time of power, and the living conditions are getting heavier. When a writer's safe was thrown, you made a noise, and in your day, we suffer from hunger and poverty, unfortunately, mass suicide, and you can't make a sound. There's poverty in the houses, you don't want to see it. Dear friends, I assure you that the outcome of this budget will not be any different from that of 2018, nor will it be from that of 2019. This budget, based on its 5 per cent growth goal, will not survive if you fail to achieve 5 per cent growth. The Turkish-type presidential system, you said, "We'll improve quickly, we'll achieve stability." You said, "There's nothing in front of us but economic crisis, poverty, unemployment, and you can't come up with solutions." While the Turkish economy is shrinking, production and investment have fallen, all you can do is stress, financial programs on the street that don't cost anything. I was horrified to hear what you hoped for for 2020 from President Naci Agbal, President of Presidential Strategy and Budget. Does a power link their hopes to expectations? You're tying it up. Naci Agbal says recent global statements will have positive benefits for developing countries like us. When global interest rates come down, our financing conditions will improve. So I don't know what to say to an economic mind that's been telling us that the future of the budget plan is good news. You've put all your hopes on expectations, and you still think you're going to put the citizen to sleep with megaprojects. Dear lawmakers, don't think that people are falling for your lies, believing that our economy will improve through expectations. The people you're drowning with new taxes and raises see that you've saved your followers through the asset fund, and that you're handing out your hands to the Simit Palace through the Bank of Agriculture, and that your damaged highways and your bridges are aware of your city hospitals. With your tax expectations in the budget, you are preparing to drown the citizen with raises in 2020, making one of the largest grants of 2020 to the General Directorate of Highways to guarantee a guarantee to the contractors. And then you want to be who the orphans are. The day is running out, you're melting like snow. Finally, I want to finish my words with the verses of the late Nihal Horseless. ▪ A trace of victory in the past; You've spilled blood on a sea... One day we'll put it back together again: Türkmen, Kyrgyz, Uygur, Baskurt, Uzbek, Kazakı. Long live the whole independent East Turkistan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0356par0586	The order belongs to Ankara MP İbrahim Halil Oral. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0357par0589	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-being party on the budget of the President of the Religious Affairs. I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to begin with a tender and grateful memory of Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded and operated as President of Religious Affairs. Because the Religion, unfortunately, did not remember its founder well enough on the national holidays or on the anniversary of his death, even to ask for a conqueror. (PARTI and CHP rows) In Friday's sermons, that great zata saw much of a blessing to a mortal. In fact, it is essential that the city be independent in order to perform Friday prayer in a town. There's no Friday prayer under the boots of blasphemy. Ataturk is the commander and hero of the national struggle for the independence of the Turkish nation, for the reading of Muhammad the Ezanite in the heavens. But we see that the mentality that governs the Diyanite rather than the architect of our independence, I wish the Greek had won. Precious lawmakers, there has never been another period in the history of the republic when our supreme religion was so involved in daily politics. Even the religion accepts daily politics and organises its sermons and sermons. This also creates reactions in the mosque congregation. So those who abandon Friday prayer, those who never go to Friday, unfortunately, are increasing. Look, Imamaazam Abu Hanife is the most closely pursued cult imam in the Islamic world today. Abu Hanife reacted to the use of religion into everyday politics during the Embasis and the Abbasis. The state has rejected its proposed duties. In return, he was tortured, but always stood up straight. I say this upright stance should be an example for all scholars today, including the President of the Religious Affairs. Islamic scholars should never fear the dominant power of politics. This is the case in which Abu Hanife had died for his sake. The prophets are the heirs of the prophets. To those who go to the waters of dirty political interests, especially the president of the Religious Affairs, I say: "You would rather be heir to the Prophet than to those who strive to remain in power. Remember that on the Day of Judgment, the blood of the scholars and the blood of the martyrs are weighed. The ink of the scholars is heavier than the blood of the martyrs. The Grand Prophet commands. Diabetes should be worthy of this event. Precious lawmakers, this is one of the most common times in the history of the republic of religious education and religious literature. Eight years ago, there were 22 seminary schools, and today the number was 105. The number of Imam-haki schools has reached 5,138. In our 61 counties, the number of imam-hatip high schools has exceeded the number of Anadolu high schools. There are many television stations, thousands of religious publications, religious magazines, and scalpels that produce religious publications. All religious debates have freedom - thank God - in public. In this picture, all kinds of immorality, corruption, decline in violence, increase in the number of believers, goodness, beauty, but it is evident that this is not the case at all. According to one study, the number of young people who have called themselves religious conservatives in the past decade has declined from 28 per cent to 15 per cent. Again, a study of imam-hakip students has shown that the idea of dementia has increased, that there has been a growing problem of commitment. In our society, especially in young people, those who promote the tendency to avoid religion, community life are increasing day by day. The power, which was set out as a religious generation, succeeded in alienating generations from our supreme religion. That means that the religious rhetoric of power first harms our supreme religion. That means that the work of the Diabetes is not doing its duty properly. Therefore make it easy, and make it easy, and give good news, and do not make it hateful. It is not done according to the commandment of the prophet. It is now backfired in society to impose religion on power or to power through religion. It's against the essence of religion. Religion has to win hearts before Islam into society. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to give you some information and comment on three documents relating to the religion. These documents are from the Religious Action Report of 2018, Volume VI. The Book of Religion Conclusion and the 2019-2023 Strategy Report (P.S.) are the following. VI. It was carried out in the title "The Faith and Religious Life Effect of Social Change." It has been stated that religious services in our country do not capture the needs of the age, that sociocultural changes damage religious beliefs; it has been stressed that there is not enough academic work done in our country. It has been stated that diabetes does not have healthy data on these issues. So the religious budget isn't being properly used. The shortcomings have been determined by the presidency itself. In the 2018 Year Action Report, the institution included issues of incompatibility among staff in weak areas, lack of employment, lack of expertise, and common perception of manly favor. Can you believe that the Ministry of Religious Affairs mentions that in its own Action Report, there is a sense of favourability? I asked all these questions from our Vice President, and the answer came: "We've taken care of them all." I asked him, "How did you fix them?" Unfortunately, there is no answer. If you have corrected the same problems, why do they stand under the title "Insourced Risks" on page 23 of the 2019-2023 Strategy Document? On the same page, it has been described as poor directions where staff is inadequate, there is a delay in answering religious problems, and there is a lack of education in staff offering religious education. These are never acceptable. The Ministry of Religious Affairs, which aims at more than $15 billion in 2023, cannot and should not make these mistakes. I didn't see anything new in the 2023 vision of the Diet Jobs. For God's sake, if anyone sees it, if anyone knows it, I'd like you to remind them and bring it forward. Precious MPs, the Republic of Turkey must have a religious strategy based on the objective data of religion. This will be a public service. This must be done not to shape the state's religion, but to prevent corruption in the religious needs of society. The Ministry of Religious Affairs is a very important institution at this point. I'm very critical of the administration of Religious Affairs from this bench, but I'm not pretending to be an outsider; I'm doing this with the idea of self-criticism. The Ministry of Religious Affairs must be managed much better and should work according to it. At this point, the injustices within the religious staff must also be dealt with. There are many chartered, temporary, staffed, honorary staffs. Most of them do the same work, but they have different rights. Contractors who do the same job as their husband should be put on the staff. The funds for the religious needs of our brothers and sisters must be provided. Groups trying to use their Cemevs for political purposes should be shown the surrounding face of the state, not being allowed. Christian, Jewish, and Yezidi citizens must be made at peace with the Diet, and the services they need must be properly provided by the Diet. Congressmans, on this occasion, we are pleased to appreciate good work as well as all our criticism. Because of the increase in the number of homes of the Religious Foundation, the activities and other useful work of institutions such as JesusM... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0358par0603	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0357par0604	.... First, I congratulate the members of the religious community and the President of the Religious Affairs, wishing that the budget would be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0358par0606	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0609	Mr. President, I'd like to thank the good lawmakers for their presentation. Of course, there's a lot of criticism that I'd like to make a brief review of them over a few very prominent topics. Now, we've had a long talk about the Canal Istanbul Project by the clerk. Your objections to this project, which we will discuss much longer -- all objections to this matter will surely be taken seriously. I care about this matter of protesting, but there is a problem with this issue of appeal: Now it should be called Istanbul and not Istanbul. So I find it unfair to treat the people who've been running this country like they've never done anything good in all these years. So every job robbery, every job that's been done, there's definitely a con... we can't have that kind of approach. If we're so insecure, why are you talking to us? So if there's at least a speck of -- I thank the last priest -- at least we've had two good words about Jesus M.O.'s -- if there's even a little bit of good in the works, we have to talk about it. I mean, we're perfect, we're the cleanest, you're thieves, you're robbers. If you're saying that, I'm sorry, we can't accept those words. All the projects we think about about Turkey are for the benefit of the country. If you object to that, he's above our heads. You're saying it's better, you're saying it's more useful, but the things you're saying about it, I don't think that's the way to do it. So say something else in the name of Kanal İstanbul, don't do it. Please don't call it the robbery Istanbul project, because when you say it's going somewhere else. Now, here we come, foreign policy issues... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0360par0614	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0615	What you're saying is that it's the idea of secular foreign policy. The truth is, I've never heard that expression before, it's the first time I've heard it here. Turkey had previously been a mediator for foreign policy, where the entity has taken a foreign policy approach as a country. Now, when you're dating... so you can't always be in the middle of something. There are some issues where you have to be on the side. So when Turkey is on the side of a Palestinian matter, is it committing crime, taking a stand on a matter related to our relatives living in Germany -- is most of them now related to people who actually became German citizens -- or is it a party when Turkey declares an opinion about an injustice somewhere, a mistake, or is it following a wrong policy? Turkey is a part of its own foreign policy and has taken part in some issues as a mediator. Even when you have an idea of your own, you can continue to be a negotiator. Anyway, I don't really understand this issue of neutrality, so people can have an opinion about something and be on the side and be fair, and be in a fair approach. In this sense, the approach of Turkish foreign policy is based on Turkey's priorities, a free, independent approach, an attitude; it does things on the charge of being a future state, and the Turkish Foreign Ministry is no different from our other ministries. So when people give us the will to be in power in the polls, just as they give us the will to use for the Ministry of Interior, for the Ministry of Education, for foreign policy, for the State Department, they give us the same equal amount of will, and by the will and authority that we get from the nation, we do it. Now, after that, of course, there's been a lot of talk here, and maybe we'll keep talking more...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0361par0619	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0620	I beg you, Mr. President. The Tank Palette Factory has now made a long speech as the budget of our National Ministry of Defense is being discussed. The Minister was asked, and he answered. But I suppose so, some of the issues are that we're going over the same point again, again, again, again, again. Now, from what I've been reading and what I've been reading about the Tank palette, and what I've been doing in my own way, now, once there's no period of property here, we've talked about it over and over again. They don't make tanks here, they make tank-related palettes, they modernise, and they work with very special qualities, workers and engineers. It's a very private business, a factory. There was another company here that built these ALTAY tanks, not from the property era, but from another company that built these ALTAY tanks. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0362par0624	Put the contract in the middle, and this discussion is over.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0363par0625	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0626	When this company developed this product, it used the facilities in this factory to build its prototype. Two reasons: because this is a place that requires a lot of expertise, and secondly, it's a very important area of security. So it's impossible to get in there and we're talking about an institution that's under the control of our National Defense Department from beginning to end when this is happening. What we're talking about here is that the company that's getting the tender for these tanks is using this space as long as it's making tanks. He's not the only one who's not going to use it; for example, there's a new tender, he's going to use ASELSAN, he's going to use ITELSAN, he's going to use ROKETSAN, so other firms who are going to continue to use it, and they're going to take the contract on this particular area of study. Of course, there are a few phrases in the last paragraph that I find difficult to understand, so I don't know what that means.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0363par0628	Here, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0629	Now, sometimes I hear things like this. They say, "Sir, he speaks excellent English, he speaks excellent French." I say to those people, "I listen to what people speak in Turkish, I don't see anything very special, so what if I don't see anything very special in Turkish, he speaks English, what happens if he speaks French?" Now, what you call thinking is not important, if you think in what language you think in English, what language is really the issue of your concepts, how you think, how you think, how you think, how you think, how you think, how you think, how you think, what you think, what you think in English. Even so, everyone speaking in this House speaks Turkish -- I see, no other language -- and is trying to express themselves with all kinds of concepts he's collected in life. So when I say these things, I don't know, I just... I don't know, I just want to say I'm surprised. Now, I'm going to complete with something, a matter of religion...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0363par0632	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0633	Now, the matter of the Religion is an extremely important matter. In the days when there were bans in Turkey -- and until only yesterday, until 2009 -- I graduated from law school, but graduated from the University of Marmara Faculty of Theology. It's been an important experience for me. I mean, what's theological community like, going, coming, approaches? I think theological community is something that we all need to share, so it's something that we shouldn't split up about. Because all the research in Turkey -- you know, young people and all that -- tells us that people living in Turkey are religious, that's what he calls himself. So whether it's religious practice or not, he's got a religious theme, and he's religious. Religion is a subject that unites us, not a subject that separates us. Whether he attends the prayer, or does not go on Friday, there are some who are devout in his household. At the end of the day, we have what we call a matter of common interest. So...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0363par0636	Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0364par0637	Looks like it's been a while.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0638	So we're listening to 70 minutes, Mr. Turkkan, 70 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0364par0639	I'll listen patiently.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0640	Let me finish with this: so let's consider this matter of religion as a matter that unites us, and let's work together on what we can really do about it, what we can do about it, what we can do about what's better together. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0365par0642	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0366par0644	First of all, I'd like to tell you about Canal Istanbul. You may not like the name of the robber Istanbul, but I respect it. So we're going to replace it. We're going to put it in Istanbul. I don't know if he's satisfied, but there's definitely a loot in there. So it may not have been liked, but I spoke to our friends, and they said, "Let's change him, let's put him in Istanbul."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0645	Equivalent words, about that Turkish thing...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0366par0646	International, international, foreign policy negotiator... side, side, of course, it's a very important issue, but it's a bad example to always be the one who loses on the side you're on. Look, Turkey has sided with Syria. What was it, the deep strategy, what was it, the strategic depth? This is the president of a leafy party from China.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0647	You guys are gonna have a lot of contact soon.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0366par0648	You took it for your own good, and you all shouted with him here. We said, look, this strategic depth is a strategic pit, in which you're all buried and sunk.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0649	Your president will give you 20 deputies, so don't say too much, you'll need it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0366par0650	Look, you know what? I listened so patiently when you guys were talking.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0359par0651	That's right, I'll listen.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0366par0652	Yeah, I said you'd drown in this hole, I couldn't get it to listen. I remember, at that time, friends, look, there was serious work going on in Syria, and Turkey had to move right in these serious jobs, otherwise there might be improvements that would even inconvenience Turkey's own unitary state structure, so we need to take precautions. We go to prayer in Emevi Mosque in three days. There was a Shamil Tayyar here, who said, "We're going to pray in three days." There was a Shamil Tayyar here, but Turkey still couldn't get out of this pit. I want to come to the Tank Palette Factory. Look, you remember Reza Zarrab, don't you? You put it on TV, in a red prop with the Turkish flag, and in the end, none of you could defend Reza Zarrab.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0367par0655	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0366par0656	Each of you refused to accept your relations with Reza Zarrab. So I sent his money. I was not accepted when he said it, I spoke to the President. When he said it, you did not accept it, I spoke to the Prime Minister. And when he said it, you did not accept it, and I had business relations with the son of the Minister of Internal Affairs as well. When he said it, you did not accept them; neither did you accept any of them. The day after tomorrow, in the days to come, the last of the days to come, you will not know him, neither will you look after him, nor will you deny your relations with him. The end of Ethem Sandzak will not be so different. Besides, there are no tanks there. You said, I'll send you a photo of him in 2012. I'll send you a picture of Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan when he was welding in 2012. Look, you know what's really going on here? You couldn't put up the contract, you couldn't tell, you couldn't tell, you hid it. And when you look at the statements of the parties, how you get partners, who you get partners, this project smells like corruption. Tank Palette Factory smells like corruption. I know we've got some seriously out-of-the-box friends out there, who never expect to come from these things, who are trying really hard to stay out of it, and I know them one by one. I'm asking them, if we have any law, to stay out of it, I know they're not in it, so stay out of it. I can assure you, these things smell like corruption. You'll see this very soon, just like Reza Zarrab's example. I will not tell you anything about speaking Turkish and thinking in Turkish, but I will give you a book of Ismail Gaspara. Read it from there, and I will leave the rest to you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0368par0661	Okay, thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0366par0662	Mr. President, I have one last sentence, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0369par0663	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0368par0664	This is your group president, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0369par0665	No, sir, that's not the way it works. We're the public defenders, not the gossip field of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0370par0667	I'm not gossiping, just sit down, I'm not gossiping, I'm talking about the budget right now.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0368par0668	This is the Deputy Director of the Group speaking right now.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0371par0669	You said something else when you said it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0372par0670	What kind of a thing is that? There's no such procedure. I'm telling you guys the truth. You take it, the MPs watch it for hours, hours, hours.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0371par0671	No, that's not true, we condemn you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0373par0672	Ask for words according to 69.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0372par0673	This is the People's Assembly. You've brought a new way, a new way. I've been in Parliament since 2011, that's not the way, people!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0373par0674	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0374par0675	Mr. Lütfü, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0373par0676	If you listen to the Friday sermons of the dialogue, you'll know once again how accurate our speaker is. Because, in order to read the Bible's Friday sermons, the mufti began to give orders that would guide the electorate during election times. You've just said, the religion must be our common denominator. That's true, I agree, but if it's the point where we all have to be able to give you some kind of law to drive your voter through the election, it's just the Diyanate of power, and you're a waste of people's faith. A political party, which came with a reference to Islam, turned out to be the most damaging party to Islam. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0375par0678	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0376par0679	Mr. Çiray, our budget efforts have been scheduled for a meeting with the group's vice presidents. So there's been a wrong...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0375par0680	Mr. President, I'd like to exercise my right to the legislature, which the people have given us. We can't just set ourselves up here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0377par0681	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0376par0682	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0377par0684	Mr. President, I've been waiting for you not to get in the way of the Good PARTI Group before, but we're actually expecting both of you and the Speaker of Parliament to step in on something first, and that is, tomorrow the Plan and Budget Commission will work, because a new bag has arrived. The Assembly is scheduled to work on it on Saturday, too. But in this case, a new clause is being substituted for the safety investigation clause, which has been cancelled by the Constitutional Court by our group's application. We talk a lot about this content, and I'm never going to go in there, but this bag was sent to Plan and Budget as a continuation of the law, this poor idea of legislation, and the Constitutional Commission, and it wasn't even wired. However, the issue of a security investigation is a direct issue of the Constitution. Besides, it wasn't sent to the Justice Commission. It was sent to the Internal Affairs Commission, but the President of the Internal Affairs Commission isn't calling. Now, what did the Constitutional Court say about such a delicate matter? The regulation with the State of Emergency KHK is unconstitutional. • Can the Plan and Budget Commission correct a binding but unconstitutional clause for all of us, which is more important to our friends than any party in the Constitutional Commission, without their opinion on this subject? This is unacceptable.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0378par0687	Is he in the Commission now, is he in the Commission?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0377par0688	He went to Plan and Budget, not the Constitution and Justice. It is our expectation that this should be transferred to the Constitution and Justice Commissions, if not, the Commissions will gather extraordinaryly and make demands of the President under Article 38 (3) of the Civil Code, as well as demand that it be referred to the Constitutional Commission in accordance with Article 38 and Budget Commission's (1) tomorrow. Otherwise... it's unbelievable! There is no such thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0378par0690	I'll discuss it with the Speaker when I'm done.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0377par0691	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0379par0692	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0377par0693	We're discussing a matter of direct interest between you and our Speaker and the Vice President. The national palaces have been handed over to the presidency. Wrong? Wrong. Did we give you our opinion on that? We did. But there's a collateral damage here, and they've released 441 personnel to the House under the arrangement later. Mr. President, this is a small staff member who has a child, who has a baby, who takes them out of the presidential office in the winter, who says: "Get out of the country, brother. There are people who have taken the staff to stop the execution, and then there are judges who are afraid to make a decision to stop it. She's out with her six-month-old baby. Oh, look, I'll tell you something, Mr. Vice President, in the era of the Turkish Armed Forces GATA, the Ministry of Health said that we had the Lojmans, so get out. Let Parliament make an effort on this. Not if the Speaker and the Vice President are throwing out a few of these 411 staff members in the winter in the snow. We need to discuss this here. You're very sensitive to all of this and especially these issues, and we expect you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0380par0695	Thank you very much. In the morning, Erkan Akçay Bey sent us a note. We're still sensitive to the protection of personnel' rights. I hope it helps.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0377par0699	Okay, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0380par0700	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0381par0703	Mr. President, in the budget talks, we had a policy that the Deputy Group Presidents, behind their oratorships, would express their opinion at the end, but that shouldn't violate the 69th Amendment of the Civil Code. According to Article 69, I also think it should continue with the talk of friends who have told them what they are being bullied about. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0380par0705	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0382par0706	Mr. President, there was a lot of bullying, and we didn't get our friends to promise, so let's make them a promise.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0383par0707	Was he bullied?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0382par0708	I mean, there was.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0383par0709	We're very sorry for his assessment of the Group Vice Presidents, and although we're offended, we respect the civil rights of the public defender who's being bullied.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0382par0710	No, Mr. President, then...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0384par0711	I want to talk about manners and bullying.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0383par0712	But we also think that Mr. Aytun Çiray....has a debt of apology to the Deputy Directors of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0382par0713	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0385par0715	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about what our CHP Group Deputy friend is referring to. We see on Saturday that a clause in a proposal that we plan to discuss is troubling, that the Constitutional Court has cancelled it before, and will now again be included in a bag of legal proposals. In this sense, about an hour ago, our fellow Justice Commission members submitted a petition to the Justice Commission's President that at least this should be discussed with the Justice Commission. We, as a group, demand that this substance, which is already the victimization area of thousands of public officials, be removed from this place entirely, and not be brought up on the agenda. It would be important for Parliament to make an effort in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0718	Mr. Cherry, I give you my word on your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0387par0720	But, Mr. President, let's give it to our friends; look, they've been waiting here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0721	Okay, until morning, I'll give whoever the word is.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0387par0722	That's not how it works, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0724	Mr. President, we have been in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey since 2011 with the will of this nation and the will of God. This is the first time we've encountered such a procedure in a long time. The MPs are as if... the National Assembly has already been disabled, and the MPs are not in a position to respond to their abuses. So something comes up, and it's promised not to be closed, and we've been losing that topic for minutes, from that polemix to that pollen, the essence. I'm the one talking about foreign policy here, I can give you that answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0725	Just give it to me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0726	So, I'm saying, for example, the lady told me about Palestine, and we're still waiting for Mr. President to go to Gaza, and I don't know how many years ago he was going to go to August. By the way, in Palestine, the Turkish nation has always really stood up for Palestinian rights, and we have seen who Palestine is with, in the recent Cyprus issue and other issues.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0728	The Deputy Director of the Group has already stated. If we keep this up, we won't be able to make any decisions.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0389par0729	Mr. President, I want a promise, I want a promise to all my friends, Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0730	But you had to promise me from there anyway.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0731	You've already said your piece, Mr. Cherry!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0732	You have to promise me from there.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0733	Here you go, brother... I'm not promising anyone here, everyone, the members of the group, they're talking about their position. Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0735	Guys, if we don't need MPs, let's give them a power of attorney, group vice presidents...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0736	Mr. Cherry, speak carefully.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0737	I'm being very careful.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0738	I run the House, the MPs are very valuable.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0739	So...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0740	A decision has been made, and your group's deputy president has agreed. So...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0741	Sir, that's for our Mr. Chairman of the Group...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0742	Go ahead, talk to him. Go ahead, tell me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0743	Doesn't mean we have to limit our rights.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0744	Come in. Mr. Cherry, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0746	I speak for everyone, and if you don't want me to talk, I won't.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0386par0747	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0388par0748	I'm not talking. Here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0390par0749	Mr. President, he's wrong because he doesn't follow enough, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0391par0750	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0392par0751	Mr. Rich, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0391par0753	Mr. President, I care that if we make rules, we must obey them.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0392par0754	We're sleeping.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0391par0755	If you show up -- what shall we say -- by making some kind of raid...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0392par0756	Mr. Rich, I'm sorry that you remind me of the will to rule the House, for everyone. We're in the middle of something here. (Applause from MHP rows) We accept the honor, honor, dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our own dignity, and we lead with great patience. Now, Mr. Ozgur is here, Erkan Akçay is here, Lütfu Türkkan is here, you are here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0393par0757	Fatma Survivor is here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0392par0758	I'm sorry I didn't make a promise to a congressman. It's my way of doing it, but there's been some sensitivity in the budget, so let's just keep it that way. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0394par0760	Mr. President, look, I have every respect for you, you know, all the time, in your absence and in your face. But our friends here -- look, there's just been attacks -- they're coming to us -- we're asking, so what's our friends' fault, they want to answer. In everyone's own way... Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı wanted to answer, Mr Yilmaz wanted to answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0392par0761	Ahmet Hamdi Pine is a beloved MP, but he praised the Free Special.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0394par0762	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0392par0763	I wonder what he'd answer to.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0394par0765	We don't know that, we don't know that. If he has a request.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0392par0766	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0394par0767	If we're going to make a promise, let's make a promise to everyone, not if we're going to give it to them. Now, I'd like to state, Mr. President, that according to Article 23 of the Civil Code, the President, who is in Parliament, is in his own discretion. I understand, and we'll pass it on to him, to Free Bey, but they also know that because of his other financial obligations, he went to the Plan and Budget Commission. They deliver their own demands, and if the President has that kind of appreciation, he'll also be evaluated. Now, you also mentioned that the judiciary is not independent. Look, you're a little conflicted, so the Constitutional Court has made a decision on your behalf, made a decision on your behalf.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0395par0770	Even a broken watch tells the truth twice.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0394par0771	Now, the decision here isn't really a decision to call off, it's the right decision to make. The Constitutional Court said that you should make a law arrangement on this matter. He said that you should draw a framework with the law. He said, "He didn't mention a cancellation, you need a legal basis." So, to avoid being late, we talked about making this legal arrangement as soon as possible, and we're going to discuss it in both commissions and the General Assembly while we're already making the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit02spe0396par0773	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0396par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. It's time for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. The first statement is from Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0397par0048	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the budgets of the President and its subsidiaries. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. The ceremony of Shebiarus is held this evening at the International Memorial of the Vuslat Year of Vüslat (7-17 December) of Hazreti Mezlana. I remember the Lord with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude on the anniversary of the 746th Vistlat. I believe that his legacy offers us unique possibilities for our national unity and spiritual development, and I pray to God that Shebiarus is a cause of good and good. This year's main theme of Vuslat's ceremonies is the time of death. He says: "There are thousands of loyalies in the suffering of love, and the city of hosts, and the city of love and tolerance, and the city of Midian. The share of Seljuklu has always been loyal to both his apocalypse and his spiritual values, which played a major role in the construction and struggle for salvation of Anatolia. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Loyalty is that we strive to repay our debt of humanity, conscience, and faith, especially to our Supreme Lord. Loyalty is also a noble emotion. Loyalty is only a name, loyalty is a promise of deception, for those who have been defeated by character, who have suffered from a personal attack and altruism. Because loyalty and loyalty are the superior moral qualities that people need throughout their lives. Loyalty is basically a way of going through life, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, If we live independent and free today, it's because of our glorious service and your suspicion. We owe both loyalty to the accused and gratitude and gratitude. In recent years, the Turkish nation has been through many difficult and difficult times. Our country has been exposed to an invasion attempt. Terror attacks, bombings, riot attempts, coup attempt, attempts to destroy our economy, have revealed that our nation has faced serious dangers. July 15th will never forget or forget the treacherous coup attempt. It is the duty of loyalty both to us and to the rest of our generations, to the cause and to the doubt that the events of that bloody night do not repeat themselves. All praise be to Allah, who has failed us in all threats and dangers, and has broken the plots and the snares. The Turkish nation approved the Presidential government system on 16 April 2017 and planned its future according to the spirit of this system, seeing the dangers and risks to our country, the games played on our backs, and the problems in our administration system. At a time when imperialism was anchored to our borders, making dirty scenarios and dark plans for our country, our nation had taken possession of its stay, its unity, and its destiny. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy to those of us who have given their lives for the sake of our sacred values, who have entrusted this land of paradise to us, and to remember our heroic veterans with gratitude and gratitude. May the Lord bless them all. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been run by the presidential government system for about 17 months. In the new system, the administration is not coming out of Parliament, it is taking the vote of confidence from the nation itself. The executive task and authority are elected and can only be changed by the election. That's a direct decision from our nation. Thus, with the new system, the period of government debate is over. If it were a parliamentary system, the government would be forced to change during this painful process. That's one of the reasons why some environments suffer from abdominal pain in the new system. In the parliamentary system, the Turkish nation has experienced many times how, by designing some internal and external custody centers, governments were formed, how they were changed, and how they were brought down. See, between 1946 and 2018, 51 governments served in seventy-two years, and the average life span of governments is about a year and five months. The coalition and government debates, government crises and problems in the presidential elections have caused blockages in the management system, causing significant time losses and instability. Political instability has also affected Turkey financially and socially, even setting the stage for non-democratic interference. The Turkish nation has had to endure the harsh and heavy bills of the coups. Each time, the coups pushed Turkey back into history, cost us ten years. Here, with the presidential government system, the weights of the parliamentary system have been purged, the disadvantages have been removed. Thus, the path to political, economic and democratic stability has been opened; a structure of governance focused on quick functioning, quick decision-making, solving problems and Turkey's development has been established. Critics on the new system are mainly due to assessments from the parliamentary system perspective. Other than that, there are allegations that are sincere and unprovoked, inconsistencies and inconsistencies. In the process of both the 16 April public vote and the June 24th elections, false and unsubstantiated allegations were brought to the attention to defame the presidential government system. While our country has just been turned from the brink of occupation, Turkey has no problem with its beka. They even said, "They constantly teased their language about beka." During the referendum and the election process, the state system comes and the country is divided. The President of the Republic will say, "I've made 500 lira a month, I've cancelled the pension." They also said he would appoint presidents, governors, ambassadors, undersecretaries, general managers as if they had already thrown them out. Although it is clear that the parliament cannot be implemented without a decision, the president is given the authority of the State of Emergency. But our dear people never believed in them, they didn't appreciate their thesis and gossip. Now, again, with empty and dry words, it's a perception operation that all authority is given to one person, that the House has been neutralized and discredited, that the judiciary is not neutral and independent. Again, those who think that they will get results by memorizing stereotypes and templates and changes of reegim, such as the weird system. People who want to discredit the new system only harm their own reputation, that's what happened. The Turkish nation is a nation of strong and uncompromising will and wisdom. The presidential government system is owned by our beloved nation. The people who don't know their people, the people who look down on them, the people who look down on them, who think they don't understand anything, should be removed, our nation should be trusted, and the national will should be respected. The new system should never be forgotten that the majority of the national will is behind the president's decision. See, in 2007, when Parliament elected the President with a majority of 65 per cent of the vote, this decision was taken to the Constitutional Court and cancelled, and this country was given a 367 trial. That night, April 27 was given an e-mutation, and someone supported it. Again, in 2008, when you made the Constitutional Amendment with a majority of 75 per cent vote to lift the ban on parliament's headscarf, the headlines had been printed and the law had been cancelled. Is this the idea of democracy that is missed? Is this the reputation of the House, respect of the national will? Is this justice wanted, judicial neutrality? When members of the judiciary receive briefings from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the judiciary is neutral and independent, but if it meets with the President, if he attends a meeting in the presidency, the judiciary is not neutral and independent? How is that understanding? Fortunately, the Turkish nation knows and knows their regiment. In the new system, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been even stronger in the face of execution and judiciary. The parliament has been given the authority to elect seven qualified members, which are the majority of the members of the Judges and Prosecutors' Council. In the parliamentary system, the application to issue a decree on the legislature, based on the law law, which took away Parliament's power of law, has been lifted along with the new system. All actions and procedures of the President, who is not subject to judicial control in the parliamentary system, have been subject to judicial control along with the new system. The parliament is equipped with control power against the execution, making the President accountable to parliament. Instead of the unlimited authority and irresponsible President of the Parliamentary system, a presidential office has been established that is responsible for all business and transactions, which is subject to both judicial control and accountability against the nation. The neutrality of the judiciary has also been constitutionally judged, the civil-military division for the purpose of unity in the judiciary has been terminated, the two members of the Constitutional Court of military origin have been removed, and the military courts have been closed. Thus, important steps have been taken towards democratisation. The fact that the president is participant does not prevent him from acting equally to all parts of society when he uses executive duty and authority. To be neutral is not to be partyless, but to serve the whole nation as it is expressed in the Constitution. Furthermore, in the parliamentary system, the neutrality of the presidents is the end of party membership on paper. Again, in the parliamentary system, the Prime Minister is part of the party and is also in charge of the execution. As the world's presidential systems are routinely implemented, only one person has the power to run and can issue a decree on the executive area. The president is elected directly by our nation, as well as responsible for the administration of the government system, and has the authority to organise in the field of execution; the executive authority is not unlimited and violates the authority to enforce law. Even those who know how to read and write the framework, boundaries, and place in legal norms of this authority, which is clearly in the Constitution, can read and understand. Dear MPs, the presidential government system is compatible with the road map and historical facts drawn by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Our goal is to rise above the level of illusory civilization shown by Ataturk, to live forever in the state of the Republic of Turkey and in the Turkish nation. The new government system has established the requirements for strong governance, and the mechanisms for quick and effective decision-making in the functioning of the state have been activated. The basis for Turkey's stronger response to threats and threats has been laid out. As a matter of fact, Turkey has eliminated all threats and attacks, broken the games, defeated evil players in a period in which our country's invasion plan was carried out as a multi-frontal attack launched by a traitorous coup attempt on July 15th. In the economy, despite all the attacks, the worst days are behind due to the right measures, the exchange rate is down, inflation and interest are down to one-digit figures, confidence in the economy has increased and has entered the path of growth. The process of economic transformation and change is more coordinated. Progress in the field of justice and law is promising. Our democracy is better than yesterday, which will only get stronger and stronger. With a human-based approach that is the basis of the presidential government system, the work must be carried out to boost economic and social prosperity, strong ownership of the principles of law, democratisation and good governance by the state, reaching common goals with a holistic strategy. It is vital that the responsibility of public administration be placed, transparency increased, and participation strengthened. It is important for citizens to have access to information on budget expenditures and to have clear and clear data to develop budget-reading in our country. In this scope, an online portal to be developed in a holistic and user-friendly format, including budget and spending data. We support the work of public services to be designed to produce value in accordance with user demand and needs, to be presented in electronics and to increase use. The need to prepare corporate IT strategies, create e-government institutional architecture, develop institutional maturity and human resource competency models, and establish national information system infrastructure with cloud IT infrastructure in public. Citizens' satisfaction must be raised to a higher level by providing an efficient, fast and quality service to local governments, caring for the needs of disadvantaged areas, participating, providing financial sustainability, transparent and accountable structure. The quality of the management system is as important as the quality of manpower that will operate the system. As highlighted in the 11th Development Plan, a staff regime that allows our country to effectively and efficiently benefit from all qualified human power must be built and put into practice. Public justice must be served, status and employment complexes must be resolved, public workers' problems with their rights should be resolved, additional indicator work must be quickly completed, and injustices must be dealt with. In public, it must also end the work of unsecured, contractual, temporary proxy, honorary, paid and part-time staff. Our media and broadcasters have significant problems, and solving these problems is of great importance to our democracy. A comprehensive change in this area is needed to be renewed. Journalists do not have a unique press professional code. In view of technological developments and online reporting, the necessary legal arrangement must be made. In addition, the RTÜK Law must be reconsidered according to today's conditions. Newspapers and television channels are burdened with debt, which should be supported. Press organisations should be given loan support under the proper conditions, which should be long-term and support employment in the sector, considering support, technological development and investment needs. Tax and insurance premiums should be reduced in the press sector. In particular, the added value tax on ads and official ads should be reduced; the customs taxes on newspaper paper, newspaper ink and plates, such as products, should be made easier for newspapers. The arrangement to end the release of executive ads in the newspapers must be waived. Internet news websites that provide employment, real-time journalism and institutionalization should be supported, and journalists at these institutions should be considered journalists. Press employees' rights and working conditions must be improved. Because of increased input prices, television is closed with many local newspapers and others are in a difficult situation. In this negative process, the local media must be supported and put into practice special support programmes so that they can continue their activities. Dear lawmakers, I wish that the budgets of the presidency and its subsidiaries in 2020 be prosperous and fruitful. The National Movement Party says we support the budgets of its presidency and its subsidiaries, and I pay my respects to you and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0398par0073	In turn, Ankara MP Yasar Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0399par0076	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget for 2020 of the President's Ministry of Religious Affairs. Before I begin my words, the legendary leader of the East Turkistan case, Jesus Joseph Alptekin, I remember him with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. May God have mercy, forgiveness, and grace. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear MPs, the President of Religious Affairs is an organization founded by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk on 3 March 1924 by 429 to conduct the work of Law 429 and Islamic religion concerning religion and worship and to manage religious institutions. Islam protects 5 basic values: life protects, keeps property, protects intelligence, protects generation, protects religion. From this sentence, the most important of the duties of the Head of Religious Affairs is the protection of religion. Does Islam have enemies? Of course you do. The Islamic religion met the enemy from the day the public notification began in Mecca. The Prophet (AS/DG) was threatened, isolated, expelled from his home, and then emigrated to Medina. When he came to Medina, he met with the books, made an agreement with the Jews in Medina, and carried out the treaty, but the first thing the Jews did was take the Prophet to his neighborhoods and stage an assassination, and they rolled the millstone to the death of the Prophet. The anti-Semitism is already in progress, and every day in Palestine, thousands of Muslims are being persecuted by each passing hour. Is it possible that the anti-Semitism is over? Surely, one day it will come to pass, and soon Islam will prevail. However, with the conquest of Mecca, the enmity with the pagans began with the people of the Book. But there's no hostility started by Muslims here, the Jews meant life, the Christians carried out the Crusade. The first Crusade was sent from Istanbul to Damascus by Byzantine Emperor Herakleios, with 40,000 soldiers. Why would he come? It is to wipe out Islam from the face of the earth, which is new in Medina, and is growing stronger, and to enslave the survivors. The Crusade under the control of Herakleios came to Damascus. It is known in the history of Islam as the Battle of the Ditch. The Prophet (ASA) has gathered all his strength in Medina to go to the battle of the Ditch. From there he came to Tebük. In an event known in the history of Islam as the Battle of Tebuk, two armies have not met, there is a plague, and two armies have not come together. So, in view, the Crusades were organized thousands of miles away by the Crusades to be wiped off the face of the face of the earth while more Muslims came to the new world. This is the first of the Crusades; the end continues. Later, the Crusades to Anatolia, this geography were blocked by the Selahattin Eyyubis, Alparslans, the Sword Lions, the Conquerors, the Laws, and Mustafa Kemaller. They came to our country a hundred years ago to Çanakkale, the French, the British, and they went as they came, to finish Islam in modern-day Turkey's geography, and to enslave the rest with the same intention. During the First World War -- as a result of the agreement -- the Crusaders came to Poletlı, the cannons were heard from Ankara, and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk took them away, threw them into the sea, and regretted their arrival and their future. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and GOOD PARTY]] The last crusade to our country was the night of July 15th. (Applause from MHP rows) It's a crusade that we need to study very well, very well, to determine, very well. The Crusaders didn't destroy a crusader, they didn't spend a dollar, they didn't kill a soldier; they harvested our people, they enslaved themselves, they collected the money from us, and they tried to conquer our country overnight. On the night of that July 15th -- no one is sorry -- the leader of the National Movement Party, the President of the National Garden, who sent the first post to the crusades, to his regiment, and to give the first statement, is the leader of the National Movement Party. (Applause from MHP rows) No one here is sorry, this was an argument today. Is it over? It's not over; it's not over; the crusade ends, but it changes shape. Precious MPs can't tolerate crusade mentality, Muslims, Islam, there's a lack of tolerance. Why is his insufferability at stake? It's an event of its own nature. Twenty years ago, in the heart of Europe, their own descendants, their own relatives, their own neighbors, and their own countrymen were massacred by Bosnians (Bosnians). The only reason they're Muslims. When he cut them down, he killed those who went to the discotheque, and the mosque-goer, and the man who prayed, and the man who drank, and he killed those who had submitted to Allah's will. Bosnia has the town of Ahmichi; the Croat crusaders have gathered the children, the elderly, the women in that town into a mosque; and the one who went to the discotte came to the mosque, and the one who went to the mosque came to the mosque; and the Muslims who were gathered in the mosque were burned to the ground. It's the Museum of Humanity. There is also the Museum of Humanity in Cyprus. In 1964, the Turkish medical examiner cut off the colonel's children in the bathtub. So the Crusades are not over, the crusade is not over. When will it be over? It ends in apocalypse. We need to be awake for him. But conditions are changing, and the new Crusades have begun with the fifth arm movement, instead of mass, rifle, tank crusades. Islam will protect... who will? God protects Islam, protects its religion, and we are blessed if we bring it to him. Blessed are the members of the Dianet, the members of the Turkish nation. This geography is the target of the Crusades. Why is it geography? For two hundred years this geography has been the safe haven of the Ummetimuhamed. Those who were expelled from Bosnia, Albania, Dağstan, Chechnya, anywhere in the world, who were troubled by their religion, who were expelled from their homeland because of their religion. So this geography is the fourth largest holy city of Islam, according to us. (Applause from MHP) And the Turkish nation is the brother of Muslims as a member of this geography. Turkey is the leader of Muslim countries. Have you ever heard of the one who was expelled from his homeland, who went to Iran, who went to Egypt, and went to the Arab countries? So when it's said in Europe, it's understood that when you say "Muslim," you say "Muslim," "Muslim," you say "Muslim" (Muslim). But what we see now in the fifth arm movement is that now we see secret activities that bring Muslims to the same point as terrorism, and terrorist organizations that suddenly emerge. He's trying to create Islamophobia from one side. Under it lies the crusaded mentality of the Crusades. My master is Al Qaeda, ISIS, DEAŞ, Boko Haram. None of these are of any use to Muslims. When he kills, he says Allahu Akbar, and when he dies, he says, "Allahu Akbar." When you look at the people they kill, the people they slaughter, 100 of them are Muslims, and by chance, two of them are members of another religion. The religious organization, which will call it "stop." It is the religious organization in Turkey, and it is the Islamic organization in the world. Islam must be well described, well identified places that provide people to such terrorist organizations, and Islam must be done well. That's where the first mission falls. In many places, however, we see six Koran courses. What we see are Islamic foundations, Islamic associations. They all get sexually abused one day, and one day something different happens. It is for him that in Turkey, there are various fifth arm activities and perception operations that are being carried out in order to discredit Diyanet's foundations, such as the sub-Koran courses, and to prevent them, we need to maintain the Dianet, because in order to wear down Islam (Islamic) on the Diet, various arms activities and perception operations are being carried out. We need to keep our religion and our religion. However, members of the Diet should also be careful of their situation, actions, verbs, and actions, knowing that they are representatives of their religion. They should also know that the slightest mistake that comes from them is being billed for Islam. Therefore, the members of the Dianet must be careful, and we must take care of the Dianet. Now, it's been discussed here, it's said, sir, that the Religion is building mosques all over the world. It's the Religion Foundation. The recent decision by the Religion Foundation to build a mosque is from the Raider Mosque in Kerkuk. So we made the effort. The Foundation of Religion stands by donations. There are those who give one lira each, but those one dollar is a very fertile dollar, and one dollar is very fertile. In addition, it has been given $300 million to the Religion Foundation. Who gave it to you? May God rest his soul, our former Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit gave it to us. He paid the Dianet Foundation for the $300 million land left by his grandfather in Medina, which was sold that day. So when we go abroad, we're happy to go anywhere and see a mosque. I'll never forget, the prayer I performed at Khosrow Pasha Mosque in Bosnia was like the prayer I prayed in Harem-i Sharif. The Muslim does not oppose the mosque of the world, and whoever does so does so. We do it, we are the sons of this nation, we are the brothers of the Islamic world. The Lord of the heavens and the earth has been gracious to us. This will be given to us by God when its time comes. Dear MPs, we're out of time, too. I'm sorry. A lot of loose ends. However, there are personnel requests here for the Head of Religious Affairs. There are proxy imams, there are no substitute imams; there are contract personnel, and that's not gonna happen. The imam's deputy, the imam is the imam, the imam is the imam. Half an imam is worth half a doctor's life from religion. Therefore, we do not accept the use of verbal imams and so-called imams and so-called imams in the Dianet Jobs, and we demand that all of the People's Religious staff be staffed from there.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0400par0097	Hadji, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0401par0098	Mr. President, five minutes to recover...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0400par0099	Hajji plans the time.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0402par0100	Unfortunately, however, we see union disputes at the trials. There must be assignments based on liakate. This is our request from the President of the Religious Affairs. Let the men of good faith come, and let the people who love their religion, who love their country, be our imams, and lead us. However, I don't intend to leave here until I admire the pilgrimage of the Religious Affairs. Those of you who went to the pilgrimage know that 3.5 million people are gathered in a town; they are obliged to worship at the same time, at the same time, at the same place. This is a very big organization. The Ministry of Religious Affairs organises the pilgrimage organizations much better than other countries, and is far ahead of other nations. From here, we thank the Head of Religious Affairs very, very much for their pilgrimage. When I'm making my point here -- Mr. President knows we're tied up, so without too long -- it's that we need to keep our religion, our religion, our country, and our nation. There may be arguments in small matters here, of course, but there's no discussion in them. I ask that the 2020 budget be a blessing to the Turkish nation, to our country, to our state, to our House, to the Lord God, to all of you. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit03spe0403par0106	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0403par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. Commission? He's in position. The talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group were held. Now it's time for Mr. Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboglu. Here you go, Mr Vahaboglu.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0404par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgetary budgetary proposal of 2020, the head of the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Board and the budget of the Defence Industry. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. As it is known, the main role of the MSCE presidency is to establish national security intelligence across the state in the face of threats to our country from the inside and the outside, or, in other words, to provide strategic intelligence on our backs. In almost every area, the decision maker needs accurate information that has been analyzed by expert personnel to make a sound decision. In the intelligence adopted by the presidency, we believe that the principle of getting the right news and not letting the government face a surprise is correct and that the MIT presidency is moving towards ideal in these matters every day. We especially think that steps are in place to increase personnel quality and to keep up with technology. The coordination of public institutions providing intelligence is of extraordinary importance. Despite its presence in the MIT Act, it is a pleasure to see that the Council of Intelligence Co-ordination, which in the past years has been unproductive, or even unemployable, has been activated in the presidency of Mr. President in 2018. It is also one of the positive developments that all government's intelligence work, including MIT, Police, Gendarmes and MASAK, has been opened to the control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a result of a legal change in 2014. The Secretary General of the National Security Council is the continuation of the Office of the High Defence Assembly, which took place in 1933, and continues to operate as a change of name. There are similar organisations in almost every country. July 15th, after the treacherous coup attempt, National Security Council 2945 and the National Security Board's General Secretariat Act were lifted from implementation, dated July 17, 2018 and dated 6th. The presidential decree and the new duties of the General Secretary-General have been set. Under the amendment, it is understood that the duties of the Secretary General continue to carry out services such as the Secretariat of the National Security Council, the Archives, the Documentation, and to prepare the National Security Policy Document. The Secretary General of the National Security Council has been the primary target of domestic and external structures that have been planning on Turkey and our region in the past years because it was closed to external influence and direction. It is my wish that this agency, in the state's memory state, has not lost its ability to support the current administration politically and to serve our country. Mr. Vice President, I've noticed a number of issues in your presentations, and I've compared them, especially no.6. It's a joke about the 8th article (e) of the presidential presidential decree. Here, it's called the internal, external and defensive modes of action within the Council's opinions... for the purpose of providing national security and reaching national goals. I'm here as a man who's served 20 years in that institution, and this needs to be completely reassessed. Their way of action on the defense is the duty of the National Department of Defense. I think it would be correct that this matter should be in the form of the National Security Policy Document, which covers the principles of internal, external security and defence policy, including the opinions set by the Council, in order to ensure national security and achieve national goals. For your information, sir. A few days ago, the bill titled National Security of the United States, which was approved by the US Senate's Foreign Relations Committee and submitted to the approval of President Trump Turkey will receive an S-400 from Russia, and its decision to invalidate military measures carried out in Syria is presuming military, economic and financial sanctions for our country. Support of the national security of the United States (USA) and DEAŞ are being used as excuses, while Turkey's security on the other side is being ignored, and the military action of Turkey's plans for Turkey has been expressed as a nuisance. If the decision is not signed by President Trump, the decision will sway over our country as a threat, such as the sword of Damocles, and the signing of the decision by Trump will force our economy and diplomacy in the first place. In response to this unfavorable attitude by the United States, the agreement was cancelled on September 1, 2004 and 25570 in the Official Gazette, which was published and followed by the United States of America's State Hamule, Imported-Export and Country Transport and Tevziine Dair Teblig, and on the basis of the agreement on the basis of this declaration, which is based in Germany, and is not possible to be taken into account on the agenda of the changes of the US's radar, including our national air bases, and our ports, and even the possibility of the U.S. (AS/TK). This development has also shown that in our country, a modern defence industry infrastructure is desperately needed and the Turkish Armed Forces ahead of the day will be given technical opportunities and capabilities. Based on the number of people in today's world, there is no longer the possibility of military deterrents and continuation. Turkey has to think and act universally. We have to have power and power to influence global and regional policies. This is what it takes to be a Turk, to be the historical power of the Islamic world that cannot be controlled, and to nationalize the Anatolian geography. The development of new technologies in our defence industry, the grant of realistic incentives, the removal of import permits in domestic products, the development of efficient processes, environment and products through innovations, the immediate removal of legal gaps in copyrights related to the defence industry, the abolition of the use of RD incentives, and the support of real RD studies, the removal of real RDs, the transfer of human incentives to the product system, the accession of the production system, the ability to support the development of efficient process, the development of media and products through innovations, the establishment of control networks to implementing copyrights in the defence industry, the use of the use of a single facility, and the ability to provide you with the ability to support of a single facility, such as the ability to provide for the protection of the protection of the firms, and the protection of the protection of the production of the firms, such as the firms, and the ability to allow you to remove the production of the production of the production of security of the firms, and the building of the production of the production of the production of security. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the end of my speech, I'd like to point out that there's no land in our homeland that we don't give martyrs to, but based on some documents, there is martyrdom here. The places that people call martyrdom are not taken into account. One of them is the region in Bitlis, where we have 387 martyrs. It is not possible for us to agree to be ignored because people have been respected and respected for years as a martyr. Mr. Vice President, when you're here, please instruct me on such matters, there is resistance, this resistance will be removed. People live there, they know the martyrs are buried there. I say we make them martyrs with the respect they deserve.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0405par0021	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0404par0022	I wish every three institutions to have a good 2020 budget, and I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0405par0024	Mr. Ozgur, the Müğla MP has asked for a promise of an extraordinary situation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0406par0025	Of course, Mr. President, we'd be delighted.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0405par0026	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0407par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. A young person in our town recently refused to buy a prescription drug that had to be sold without a prescription and attacked three of our pharmacies at night and caused serious financial damage. We wish our pharmacists well. Once again, this incident has shown that one of the victims of increasing health and violence is the pharmacists. Pharmaceuticals face violence because they don't give prescription drugs or receive government examination fees, including extortion, robbery, violence. The necessary measures must be taken to ensure that our pharmacists can ensure our citizens' access to the drug in an uninterrupted and secure manner. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0408par0072	Kayseri MP Mustafa Baki Ersoy is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0409par0075	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss the budget and revenue budget of the presidency's budget for 2020 years as part of the 2018 Central Management Law Proposal Talks. I hereby salute the General Assembly and all members of the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of the screens. The budget of 2020 is the 2nd budget of the presidential government system. The Republic of Turkey has been ruled by the presidential government system for nearly 17 months since July 9, 2018. Looking back at this process that we left behind, we see that the huge wolf attacks on our economy, which began in 2018, which we had not seen before in 2019, were neutralized by the powerful co-ordination and rapid decision-making process provided by the government system of the presidency, which was primarily supported by the entire Turkish nation of saintly consciousness. In those days, foreign currency and interest rates that were climbing with a tweet (tweet) are, thankfully, no longer negatively affected, even with dozens of tweet (tweets), and even at a rapid rate of economic stability. With the transition to the presidential government system, the presidential decrees have been issued for the systematic and holistic design of the structural and functional transformation of the public administration, which has been eliminated from the majority of decision-making processes, to adapt to the requirements of the new government system. In this way, while the presidency's central agency is focused on monitoring and evaluation with policy and strategy development and evaluation in order to achieve a citizen-oriented, effective and effective public service presentation, the ministries have been shaped in a more operational and functional structure. One of these decrees was the presidential decision 13 and the presidency's general budget strategy and budget presidency. In addition to the task of drafting senior policy documents such as the presidential plan, the presidential programme, the medium-term programme, the middle-term fiscal plan, the presidential annual programme, as well as the draft and implementation of the central management budget on behalf of the president, he is taking on important tasks in the process of allocation. As of July 24, 2018, the President of Strategy and Budget has completed several important studies in a short period of time, and has made significant contributions to the effective functioning of the presidency's government system. The presidency is one of the main actors to direct the country's economy because of its mandates and mandates. With the presidential government system, for the first time this year, the mandate to draft central management budget law has been carried out by the President of Strategy and Budget. The strategic plan, performance programme and processes related to action reports are also directed by the presidency. The strategy and budget presidency has stepped up its work on implementing the programme budget system since 2019, as the basis for the programme budget work launched by the Finance Ministry in 2012. The programme budget, which is considered to be an important reform area in our financial system, will meet a simpler, more simple, understandable and expendable structure, rather than inputs, and will ensure that the budget is prepared, implemented, monitored and evaluated with a result-oriented approach. In this direction, the management performance programmes for 2020 were presented to our Supreme Assembly in accordance with the budget. If we make assessments on the income budget, the tax reform in the 2020-2022 period of the New Economy Programme has been considered the main goal of protecting the taxpayer rights more effectively, promoting the declaration system, increasing the efficiency of tax collection, increasing tax revenues and providing tax justice. The 11th Development Plan, adopted in 2019, was aimed at enforcing the law on income and institutional taxes, expanding tax bases, facilitating taxability, improving predictability, providing legislation for investment and production, as well as the adoption of a new Tax Utilisation Act. Clearly, there is a need for tax reform in our country. A simple, simple, understandable and fair tax system, which everyone pays taxes according to their financial power, has been mentioned for years, but has not been done so far. In 2019, the budget was expected to cut 125 billion Turkish liras, but the main reason is that tax revenues are well below its 2019 target. Pencils, such as zoning pardons, priced military revenues, transfers from the Central Bank, have prevented the budget deficit from growing, and have given our economy a little bit of comfort. In 2019, the income tax was unfortunately undermined by the collection targets. The main reason why the target is being held under is because employment has been reduced. In addition, the Eysel Mobile System, which has been implemented as part of the fight against inflation in the white goods sectors, in particular, has led to much below the target of VAT collection in imports, including the special consumption tax. The narrowing of housing sales has negatively affected the collection of fees. At this point, however, the goal of tax collection in 2019 is expected to increase by 46 billion 323 million Turkish liras in 2018 and will be 667 billion 634 million Turkish liras. There are two main ways to increase tax collection. The first is the struggle against unregisteredness, and the other is the distribution of taxes. In addition, activities in tax audits will be important steps for the budget balance to promote direct taxes, reduce foreign currency dependency. The tax system in our country is an unexplored structure, which includes taxes on consumption and transactions. Turkey must immediately carry out a fair, ground-to-wall tax reform. In addition to the priorities related to public financing in tax-related arrangements, taxes should be assessed together by the effects of production and employment. The tax system must be restored to a dynamic structure that considers the country's economic, social and cultural structure. The 11th Development Plan was aimed at reviewing incentives, support and social assistance practices and removing inactive practices. In particular, we consider it important and support the work done in order to reduce some of our employers' burdens, to make employment continuous, to prevent the growth of unemployment figures. I also think that for our economy to improve and increase production, we need to organise incentives in agriculture and industry and implement a fair incentive system. According to the regions, it is important that the county-based incentive system be implemented. In this regard, the expectations of the hardworking and poor trade people of my constituency, which, unfortunately, I don't believe, is high. In this sense, our Kayseri would have to be taken from the 2nd district to the 3rd, and our boroughs would have to be taken to the 5th. In the field of agriculture, the IPARD Grant Programme will be a major step in development in 81 districts, including our Kayseri, rather than 42 provinces. Again, I would like to say once again that it is necessary for our farmers to restructure loan debt to public banks and Agriculture Loan Cooperatives. Also, one important issue that I can't ignore is that it has a rich value, such as Erciias, and that its name has been heavily remembered as Kayseri, a member of Kayseri, a member of Kayseri, a member of Kayseri. So, when we say Kayseri, we think of a lot of things like charity, cooperation, hard work, dedication, enterprise, reconciliation, and the capital of brotherhood. Many of the schools of Kayseri Ercies University, health centers, service buildings, research centers, are mostly made by our Kayseri benefactors and given to our university. Again, there are many schools, mosques, and service buildings that belong to our benefactors in many parts of our Kayseri, in the city, and in our districts. The philanthropy of our Kayserian countrymen has set an example for many of our cities and has reached a point in Turkey where charity will be shown by finger. God bless them all. Kayseri, one of the oldest settlements in the centre of Turkey, with a history of 6,000 years, and is located on the Silk Road, has maintained its importance in every era, as a result of its appropriate geographical position. It is a cradle to many civilisations, but it strengthens its ability to become an important industrial and commercial centre, even more and more, with its growing industry. Kayseri, who has continued the trade tradition that began throughout history in Ashtepe Canish-Karum, the world's first organised trade centre, is one of the most important trade and industry cities in our country, with the volume of over $5 billion in foreign trade, with around 2,000 production centers. It is an innovative, entrepreneurial, hard-working, philanthropic city of Kayseri. There are three organised industrial areas in our province, 16 small industrial areas, 1 free zone, 1 technology development area. Kayseri has a total of 46 million,522,000 square metres of planned industrial space. In 2019, our Kayseri will be exported at $2.2 billion, if God wills it. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it would be right to mention the name of our Kayseri, not with the dirty terrorist organization, but with these facts. An ancient city, which is the capital of civilisations and Cappadocia, should come to mind; it must be the capital of centuries of brotherhood and peace; Erjijas and Capuzhead Falls, which is a wonder of nature; the mantis that has written its name in the world's kitchen must come to mind, because wherever you go, bacon is on the agenda, but we don't even need to discuss it. Kayseri means history, Kayseri means Anatolian, Kayseri Selçuklu, Kayseri means Big Sinan the Architect. Among other things, the state, the nation and the state are at an extreme stage of consciousness that is felt in the integrity of our city. In no era of history, our Kayseri is an ancient city whose name has not been mentioned by riots, who has not taken a stand in the face of the state, the integrity of the country and the nation. Yes, today is December 17, 2019. Three years ago, on December 17, 2016, in the attack on the public bus carrying our soldiers on the streets of Kayseri, 15 of our soldiers were killed in a bomb-loaded vehicle, and I bless them with the Fatihs, and I wish our veterans a healthy life. Thank God for the blood of our martyrs. At the time of the incident, I'd like to share an anecdote that I lived as President of the National Movement Party Kayseri Province, which was one of the most impressive events of my life: the event took place on a Saturday (December 17th 2016) at exactly 8:45 p.m. My friends and I were gathered in the county office earlier this morning to attend our convention in one of our counties. As the president of the National Movement Party Kayseri County, I had the need to remind all my fellow plaintiffs of the need for blood by sending a text message after the explosion. In less than half an hour, despite the extreme cold, we were informed that within the Ercijas University compound, there were several metres of queues between intensive security measures and that the Kayseri people were on alert at any moment. In a short time, despite the smell of cold air, heavy gunpowder in the area that we have reached, our Kayserian countrymen have been with their soldiers, their lives, their children, and have not left the area where the incident took place for a long time. Like Kayseri High School, which raised many of our elders in our state, was not thanked this year on the page of the year when high school seniors were unable to graduate because of their martyrdom in the Battle of Çanakkale in the 1915-1916 education course. When asked, who is there? I am there without looking to the left. He who says, "He who is near his country, his nation, and his state at all times is with him." With all of this, I find it once again useful to emphasize that the last people Kayseri will be remembered with are traitors, terrorists; the last things Kayseri will remember together are terrorist organizations, evil centers; those who take their stand against the country, the nation, and the state. There is not a Kayserian to be remembered for his illegitimate children, or for his schizophrenic slug; but if there is, it is for us. As in all our provinces, our government has taken the necessary measures and done what is necessary. The brave sons of our Kayseri have always been leading by trade, by politics, by his presence, by his presence, by his personality, by his hard work, by his charity, by his loyalty to the state, by the love of the nation, by the love of the nation, and will always be. For the sake of the great Turkish nation, we will always have an account in the name of our Kayseri, the name, the name, the name, the name of our Kaiseril, and those who are bent on polluting or polluting all brand values, on behalf of the great Turkish nation, on behalf of our Kayseri people, and our fight will not end. Our Kayseri has signed another principle in Turkey, thank God. The first woman in the Super League to head our Kayserispor, the largest brand value of our Kayseri. He hopes that our city will continue to keep the first in a positive sense in our country, and I wish our President, Berna, the board of directors, and all the successes in the Super League, where we are in love. Also, on the anniversary of the death of Jesus Joseph Alptekin, the insufferable defender of the East Turkistan case, I bless him and bless his soul. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that our 2020 budget would be a blessing, and I give you all my regards. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0410par0107	Aksaray MP Ramazan Kashlı is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Eyebrows.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0411par0110	Dear President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group on the revenue budget and budgetary budgets. At the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation, our Vice President, the General Assembly, our valued citizens watching us at the beginning of the screen, and our Aksaray residents. As it is known, on 16 April 2017, a constitutional amendment was made by the will of our beloved nation, a radical reform in the government system, and after the June 24th elections, the presidential government system took effect. With this new government system being introduced, a structure has been established that allows public and private sectors and NGOs to provide qualified participation through effective, economic and efficient use of resources as part of the restructuring process. The head of strategy and Budget, particularly the development plan, is tasked with preparation and implementation of the central management budget, as well as preparing high policy documents such as the presidential programme, the medium-term programme, the middle-term financial plan, the presidential annual programme. As of July 2019, our country's economic and social development process, which has been revised in accordance with its 11th Development Plan, will take a leading role in our country's new vision and policy production context as a strong and innovative agency for technological infrastructure and human resources. In 1997, our wise leader, Mr. State Gardener, announced the political vision that would carry the state of the Republic of Turkey on a historic mission and responsibility to the 100th anniversary of our republic in 2023, and revealed Turkey's future goals from twenty-two years ago. So in order to achieve their goals in a much healthier way, 2023, 2053 and 2071, it has been very effective at the point of resolving our country's fundamental issues. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been subjected to economic attacks on both terror attacks and interest, led by global forces, as well as by the attempted coup attempt on July 15th. In response to this multi-frontal invasion plan, Turkey has responded more strongly to the attacks: we are one, we are big, we are alive. These attacks have been prevented by the sacrifice of 2,193 of our gas and by the total resistance of the nation. In this critical period in which we have joined forces to claim our national ranks, I once again emphasize here that we are not and will not do so, as our leader stated, the republic that we have established together, either the will or the death! For the Turkish nation, the state is the source of unity, freedom and future, life and prosperity. It should be known that the National Movement Party is on the side of our state and government in the critical period Turkey is going through. I'd like to point out that we've been talking about this as a national mission in a time when we've been fighting seven heifers as a country. The motto from our leader, Mr. State Gardener, who says, "First, my country and my nation." I say, "Turkey is the love of the country's movement, the Turkish nation." Praise be to God, we know where we're going, and we're fighting every fight we can. Turkey's horizon is open, its future is bright, and its development is toward a bright future. And I pray unto my Lord the Most High, that thou mayest see this nation as brothers unto one another. Help us against every difficulty and trial. Have mercy on all our martyrs. Save us from those who are worthy of the trust of our martyrs. Don't silence our oppressors, don't bring down our glorious flag, keep our people, keep our coven. He says, "God, don't leave us without help and tomorrow." And I salute the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, and the 2018 Central Management Accounting Law Proposal, with the great Turkish nation watching over our country, watching over our screens, and my Aksaray fellow citizens.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0412par0117	Fendoglu, you've come to me because we have an alibi. Come in, I promise you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0413par0120	Thank you. The Minister's gentlemen were here yesterday. We asked our questions as healers, but they didn't answer. I, our Vice President, am here to ask him. With a new agency law, 12 district directors will be formed. Will Malatya be given a district directorate of the Office of the Earth Mahullari Office? Can we get that word out of here? Again, our Minister of Youth and Sports promised a national match here in the budget last year. Therefore, we ask our Vice President for a national match at Malatya. Thank you. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0414par0165	The first word on behalf of individuals is for Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0415par0168	Mr. President, I have received a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on the presidential budget of 2020. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's economy has made the most powerful development moves since the multi-party life. The coalition period has been years when Turkey's economy struggles with crises, struggles to make effective and fast decisions, so growth takes a bumpy path. In our country, 21 governments have been established in thirty-six years from 1983 to today, and the average lives of these governments have been about a year and a half. Therefore, the existence of a stable, decision-making system has become essential. I regret to say that in Turkey, the system changes have not been carried out by the will of political will or by the will of the nation, but by the coup d'états of custody. What's interesting is that the lowest periods of economic growth have been military administration. For the first time, our nation has shown that with the 2017 referendum, the political will can make a change under any guardianship or influence. On 16 April 2017, with the constitutional amendment adopted by our nation in the public vote, we strengthened democracy, accelerated decision-making and implementation mechanisms. In order to serve our nation more effectively and quickly, a new system of governance has been passed on to you, the presidential government system. In this historic step with the June 24, 2018 elections, our first application, the faster response to our nation's needs, with dynamic structurality, quickly adapted to progress, correct and sustainable policies were developed. Members of parliament, the budget proposal for 2020 is the 18th and 2nd budget for the presidential government system. The budget proposal was prepared in line with the goals set in the New Economic Programme, which covered the period 2020-2022. The 2020 budget is a three-year perspective aimed at sustainable growth in the middle term, without compromise from fiscal discipline. The most important feature of the budgets imposed by the EC PARTY authorities is that as resources from the budget to interest have been reduced, resources for social support, education, transport, health care, agricultural support, local governments and investments have been constantly increased. In 2002, interest spending is expected to remain at the budget costs by 44 per cent, while in the budget budget for 2020 it is expected to remain at 12 per cent. In the 2020 budget, only $17 of each $100 tax collected before us will be earmarked for interest spending. Is that enough? Of course, it's not enough. We really want it to go lower. So 88 percent of the costs in the budget will be spent directly in areas that will support the development of our country as a service to our citizens. Dear lawmakers, the budget for 2020 will permanently reduce our economy's dependence on foreign savings, lower the current deficit's rate of national income, and will be based on the perspective of ensuring an economic transformation of production. Our budget for 2020 will be implemented successfully with the new structure and understanding of the presidential government system. Our goal is to move our country to a stronger and more prosperous future, not in a system that produces bureaucracy, but in a service structure, which ensures that the challenges we face will be overcome quickly and effectively, adapting quickly to innovations, results and processes, decision-making faster, stable and sustainable growth, as well as all of our institutions and institutions. Dear MPs, I'd like to share with you something very important. We propose the palace of Isaac Pasha in Ağrı.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0416par0175	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0415par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. We expect the support of the entire Assembly to become a 2020 symbol of Isaac Pasha Palace, one of the rarest monuments in the history of Turkish-Islamic architecture, which was taken to the World Heritage List in 2000 by UNESCO and declared the year of Ishaq Pasha Palace in 2020.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0417par0178	What about Hasankeyf, Hasankeyf?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0415par0179	I would like to thank our esteemed lawmakers, the President of the Plan and Budget Commission, who supported budget talks in the Plan and Budget Commission with information and savings, and then all the members of our Commission, and then all the MPs in Parliament who contributed with constructive criticism and warnings to the talks, and also the law experts who have worked hard at drafting the budget, and from the cook who has been working, and from the servants to our policemen who have been on watch. Finally, in 2020, he wishes the presidential budget to be good for our nation and our country, and I hereby salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit04spe0418par0182	Ekrem, don't forget the Sword of Tutak, and the Diştepe, when you speak of Pain. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0418par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of his motion, I will make a promise to Vice President Fuat Oktay. Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0419par0007	Mr. President, I want to thank all of you and all of our members of the Plan and Budget Commission, and all of our ministers and all of our friends who are working in our presidential and presidential and relevant institutions, for their valuable contributions in the preparation and negotiations of the budget. At the beginning of my words, leaving behind many works of love and ideas to preserve its life, seven hundred and forty and forty-six years ago today, I call upon the Lord of the Hereafter, the Holy One, with mercy and gratitude. Mr. President, valued lawmakers continue to prove their success in many ways, such as the presidential government system, stability, separation of decisive forces, simplification in governance, quick decision-making and implementation, dynamic foreign policy, flexibility and effective crisis management in the 2nd year. When the presidential government system was discussed, questions and criticisms focused particularly on the size of one man have been raised today. Turkey successfully adopted one of the most important management reforms in its recent history by entering the presidential government system. This reform process was carried out entirely by our nation, unlike those of the past. Anyone who believes in democracy, the rule of national will and the rule of law should respect that change. Every step we take as a government and take under the roof of the High Assembly and in the presence of the nation, we act in accordance with all rules and rules, transparent and accountable, and that is why we are here today. The system that is being debated in public, which passes through our Parliament of national will, and our nation's approval, is not the one man system, but the nation's system. Those who make this claim take the will of our nation, not of our President. Mr. President is a leader who has led his entire political life in democratic frames, who has won the favor of our nation. He became a Prime Minister and President in favour of participation, in close consultation with women, young people and NGOs, which included all decision-making mechanisms and decision-making mechanisms in the public and civilian process. We, behind me, are of the unrestricted nation of government, which is also on the main wall of the General Assembly. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, and the nation has made up its mind. The term "Trump" was used every month, unfortunately. We only answer to the people, and we answer to the people here today. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] In the international arena, we don't answer for the interests of Turkey, we ask for an account. We move in that direction, whatever the interests of Turkey are, and we move in that direction. We do and do what Turkey's interests require, no country, organization or person needs permission from. Cross-border operations, sending troops if necessary, drilling in the Eastern Mediterranean, operating across the border, if necessary; we do and do whatever it takes. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, is one of the number of leaders in the world who are able to meet with all the leaders of the country, and in their talks, he exhibits the position that our nation will be proud of, he stands firm for our nation, he speaks directly to the faces of what he needs to say; he does not stand hand to hand. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been oratories describing the budget of relevant and related institutions, which depend on the presidency and the presidency, as the budget of the court. The presidential budget is not the budget of a single person or a single institution. This budget, discussed today, is a budget that represents Turkey's independence, security and national power, including the leadership of the National Intelligence Agency and the leadership of the Defence Industry. It is a budget that includes engine institutions such as the Presidential Office of Digital Transformation, Investment Office, Finance Office and Human Resources Office to become a productive and productive Turkey, not to use its resources effectively and consume technology. This budget will further increase the efficiency of the presidential government system next year, strengthening its fast and dynamic structure, covering and sustainable policies. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today is December 17th, unfortunately the 6th anniversary of the trial coup attempt. On December 17th and 25th, they attempted a coup attempt, followed by a coup attempt on July 15th. Just as our President stood firm in the face of the coup attempt on December 17th-25th, he stood in the same position as his nation in the face of the July 15th coup attempt. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let me put it this way, we strongly condemn every blow ever committed against the will of the nation. These low initiatives, which have left deep scars on our nation's memory and conscience, have been met with deep hatred and sadness by our nation, whose main goal is the removal of the national will. The nationals, the locals, they've always been the target of the coup. Despite the nation, we've always had the most violent struggle with these unofficial power centers that claim to be acting for the nation, but are actually in front of the nation. From now on, our struggle against the same power centers, based on the national will, will continue with the same determination. The President's position in the face of all blows in general, especially in the face of the treacherous July 15 coup attempt, is clear and clear, without any words or explanation. I also want to thank you for the clear stance of our Veteran Assembly. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the biggest betrayals Turkey and the Turkish nation have recently experienced is no doubt the July 15th treacherous coup attempt. This coup attempt represents a multi-pronged attack on our country: First, this incident is a terrorist attack on national will, national will, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President elected by the nation, the Prime Minister, the government, and our democracy. Second, this coup attempt is an attempt to invade our country, a symbol of our freedom of moon-star flag, which echoes in its skies and waves in the post. Third, this betrayal is a miserable attempt to aim directly at the nation, turn their guns against the nation, spill the blood of the nation. Fourth, this coup attempt, as a rare example of virtue in the history of the world, has been suppressed and failed by the nation itself. The fifth is that this attempt has shown us very clearly how, very clearly, non-religious structures of the country and of the nation can be thrown into the pits of betrayal. The sixth has once again proven the determination of the Turkish nation, which has many examples in history, to protect its future and future at the cost of its life. Other than that, there are many messages, many lessons that July 15th gave us. The extraordinary state, announced on July 20th, immediately after the coup attempt, was lifted on July 18, 2018, following a seven hundred and thirty days of practice. I don't know if there's any other country in the world that can solve all problems within the borders of the state of law after a low blow like this. Turkey has left this body behind by sticking to its constitutional order and the rule of law state. In a number of exceptional instances, it is unfair to our nation, above all, to accuse Turkey of its fight against ا and other terrorist organizations, to discredit it, to try to neutralize it. We're all the way to solving problems in law and justice, but we can never allow Turkey's fight against terrorism to be harmed. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's how we expect everyone with faith and conscience to consider July 15th and what happened afterwards. The Turkish judiciary has taken on a historical responsibility in the fight against ▪ and carried out the need for this responsibility with great sacrifice and continues to bring it. While the importance of the healthy conduct of judicial processes is evident, we must not allow such claims as the stock market, to dilute our uninterrupted struggle with,,,,,,,,, the uninterrupted struggle.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0420par0028	I swear, your parents do it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0419par0029	Anyone with evidence and information should share their evidence, evidence with the Judges and Prosecutors' Board and the Republican prosecutors; this is a historical responsibility. Otherwise, we won't get anywhere with rumors that don't lead to evidence. Trust in the judiciary should be a common concern for all of us, and everyone should avoid claims that would undermine confidence in the judiciary. Mr. President, I'm going to share some information with you now under the budget of 2020 of the presidential, related institutions, and again, the exact accounts of 2018, the activities and projects planned to be carried out, and the issues and criticism of the Court's reports. The presidency's Chairman of Executive Affairs is doing the necessary work to ensure that the President's relations with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is conducted, that the state organization is operating regularly and effectively, that co-ordinated in the fight against domestic and external security and terrorism. According to the final account of 2018, a billion, 648 million, 678 thousand euros is expected to be earmarked for the presidency's President and his offices, with an increase of 11.8 per cent in the budget of 2020, according to the initial budget of the previous year. The budget for emergency support from the presidency for the presidency in 2019 was earmarked $165m, $1 billion for the peace support and protection services used by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and National Defence, and $330m for transfers to the Presidential offices budget. Under the support and leadership of our President, the presidential library, which will be one of the number of libraries in the world, has also come to the final stage in its efforts to present it to the service of our nation. The presidential library was established in 2019, according to the Replicated Ideas and Arts Compilation Act No. 6279. Thus, the works published in Turkey will be brought into the library. The library collection contains about 2.5 million publications, including 1.5 million printed books, 12,000 magazines, and 1 million continuous publications. The opening of the library is scheduled for soon. The Court's report in 2018 did not include any findings regarding the presidency's presidency of administrative affairs. There was another question about the library about who might have access to this library. This library is people's library, seven days a week, 24 hours a day, and anyone who wants it will be able to use it as long as they show their identity. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the valued lawmakers continue their activities in order to improve the efficiency of the four offices, nine policy boards and seven presidential systems, which are based directly on the presidency, with a fast and dynamic structure, in order to improve comprehensive and sustainable policies. As I said in my budget presentation, in 2019, a total of 3, a total of 6, including the Council of Sciences, Technology and Innovation Policys, the Research Report for Preliminary Technologies by the Council for Education and Teaching Policys, a total of 16, the current and long-term strategic issues on the security and foreign policy of Turkey are available by the Council of Law and System Reform Report, in total by the Council of Economic Policy Council, and by the Commission of Sciences and Resistative Products Sectors Report, in total nine, including the Commission for Security and Foreign Policys, and the Council of Health, and the Council of Foreign Policy, as a combined by the Council of Health and Development, by the Council of Health, and the Council of Health, and the Council of State of Health and Development, as a combined by the Council of Health, the Council of Health and Development and Development and Developments, the Council of Higher Education and the Council of Law shall be prepared in total 16, 16, and Systems. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Office of Digital Transformation, Digital Turkey and Cyber Security Co-ordination, are gathering under the same roof. We know that global competition and the aims of sustainable development of countries can only be achieved if all shareholders work in cooperation. With digital transformation, the public's business processes will be accelerated, facilitating the daily lives of our citizens, which will save time and money, and will bring prosperity in economic and social life. We continue our work without slowing down to increase the number of high-level services, to spread the services to everyone, to allow our citizens to use much more comfortable and faster digital Turkey, and to increase our country's share in world technology production. In this framework, National Data Dictionary studies have been launched to increase interagency cooperation and to create effective decision-making processes based on public data. The National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, created to ensure the effective use of large data and artificial intelligence practices in public, is intended to be published by the end of this year. Prep work has been launched for the National Cyber Security Strategy on cybersecurity strategies aimed at protecting public institutions and critical infrastructure. The National Open Data Portal will be established so that public data can be used for free. At the end of December 2019, the application technical infrastructure of the Single Stop Service Point Project will be completed. In 2020, the pilot's application will also be implemented by the placemental infrastructure, which I mentioned in my budget presentation speech. So our goal is to take all of the services that the state can carry into the digital environment, all of its services to its citizens, if it desires and wants to buy in a physical environment, different institutions, different ministries, from one center, and from one person, and that -- we want -- we want to make sure that it gets these services without any documents, so hopefully there will be a revolution in this field, in its field. It is intended to be grouped and associated with information related to more than one ministry via digital Turkey and the e-state portal, and to be presented again in a new module, in a user-oriented and integrated form, under the name of the Bazlı Services. Such practices will be continued by means of vehicles in January 2020. Users -- I mean, I'm talking about every single citizen -- any examination of your vehicle, HGS, OGS, insurance policy, you can access all information through a single module on the digital Turkey portal, and you can process your vehicles from here, our citizens can do it from here. In this way, we aim to save our citizens time and money. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are also conducting their work at the Human Resources Office, which is created throughout our country, with the planning and development of human resources -- the implementation of modern human resource management models in the public -- as well as transitioning into the presidential government system. Regional career fairs have been organised in eight different provinces under the protection of the presidency; the goal here is to ensure opportunities for university students and graduates and to bring qualified young people into the public and private sector. In 2020, the West Black Sea and Thracian regions are also covered, and they are also scheduled to be organised in 10 other cities. In Turkey, the Uni-Vari Project is also developing polls in this framework to assess the labour market performance and graduate monitoring of the higher education system, and to get opinions and proposals on human resources processes in all public institutions, including satisfaction and belonging to the institution they work for. The online training portal was also prepared and served by all public institutions in order to improve service education in public institutions and use public resources more effectively. Mr. President, respected lawmakers, international investments in Turkey continue without slowing down. Between 2002 and 18, investments in our country amounted to about 210 billion dollars. Before entering the presidential government system, the Presidential Investment Support and Credit Agency, the Presidential Investment Office, which operates as the President's Office, signed an investment of about $24.5 billion from 2006-2018 to about 45,500 people again. The Presidential Investment Office continues its activities to boost investments in our country and contribute investments to our country's economic development. In this scope, the office continues its activities towards the development of proposals for the development of investment environments, the establishment of co-ordination between institutions and institutions in the public and private sectors, the resolution of possible problems that investors may face, the creation of information and data to contribute to boost investments in our country, the development of proposals for the reform process for improving the investment environment, and the implementation of investment support and promotion strategy on the national level. The economic value of projects, followed by the Investment Office and envisioned in the coming years, is estimated to be $19.2 billion. In the event of these investments, 52,827 people are expected to receive employment opportunities. In talks held at the Plan and Budget Commission and today's General Assembly, questions about the fees paid to advisers regarding the investment office also come again, as well as criticism. Again, this is where the Investment Office can work with foreign advisers for the purpose of reporting the necessary investments as part of investment, promotional activities. The fee paid to these advisers is determined according to the economic conditions of the country in which they serve -- payment on the basis of jobs such as salary, performance, salary, meeting, organisation and so on. Mr. President, the President's Office of Finance is continuing its activities in order to ensure that our country takes part in the global financial markets as an important actor. The Istanbul Financial Centre Project, run by the office, is intended to strengthen Istanbul's international position and become one of the world's leading financial centres. As part of the Istanbul Financial Centre Project, studies on legal regulations for resolving disputes between investors are scheduled to be carried out. In addition, a financial techno park will be established within the Istanbul Financial Centre. The Islamic Economics and Finance Institute, which is the first institution to be established in Turkey within a joint protocol with the University of Marmara. The institute aims to provide the industry's needed human resources and to perform necessary academic studies in the field of accession finance. As a result of successful work conducted by the office, the Istanbul Financial Centre rose 15 places to 53rd place in the Global Financial Centres Index Report, published in September 2019. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the newly established presidential communications presidency, along with the presidential government system, has become the roofing establishment of our state's strategic communication, including public diplomacy. In this regard, it has turned to a new structure in relation to the national interests of our country and the goals of our country in 2023. In this scope, activities related to our country's external promotion are being carried out, using the tools of public diplomacy to promote Turkey's legitimate arguments in the domestic and external public, to fight black propaganda and deformation for our country, to work on developing media activities, to strengthen the relationship of our state with our citizens even more. I have an idea for my country in 2019, and from the date of the official announcement of the project, nearly 40,000 ideas have been delivered to the presidency by our citizens. As part of the July 15 communication campaign, around 1,500 events were organised on the streets of New York, pictures of July 15th, international panels, and the documentary "The Network" which reveals the reality inland and abroad. The answer rate of applications to CEMER was 91 per cent, while the average response period was reduced by 21 per cent to 15 days, compared to 2018. In 2020, the average response period is scheduled to be reduced to ten days. Again, as I recall, there was a question about this as well. Isn't there any criticism or complaint being sent to all public institutions from the presidency? Of course, it's being transmitted. Here, the Chairman of Communication provides co-direction of all the presidential agencies, presidentials, office and policy boards. After they've all fallen into the communications presidency, after they've been transferred to the relevant units, the answers are forwarded to the applicants again. Mr. President, lawmakers, the issue of press cards has been brought up again in the debates of the Plan and Budget Commission, and has been brought up here again today. The main reason for change in press cards is to prevent irregularity and false card use, to improve the prestige of the press card and facilitate the work of press members. In addition, with the presidential government system, all cards need to be renewed. The Press Card Commission is objectively defined by the criteria for having the most members in the media business sector, including organizationalisation, under the Media President's Press Card Regulation. International press members in our country have been issued 345 press cards as of 2019. On the other hand, during the July 15th attempted treasonous coup, 691 journalists' press cards, which have been considered to be associated with media agencies or at the level of contact, have been cancelled under the relevant regulation of the press card. At the end of 2018, 362 million and 524 thousand liras were spent by the Communication Presidency. The presidency was earmarked with a total of 395 million and 531 thousand lira grants, as well as budget transfers in 2019. In 2020, 368 million and 136 thousand liras were allocated to the presidency. Mr. President, the chair of the Dianets, which operates in the vision of being an institution of peace and peace, which is trusted and referenced in everything about Islamic religion, is in communication and co-operation with all Muslims around the world from Europe to America, from Asia to Africa. The Ministry of Religious Affairs is in place of national issues in its borders, as part of the Constitution's 136th Article, in order to contribute to the unity and unity of society, peace and peace. The presidency sends many publications, such as resource works, scientific works, and children's books to school, prison, association and individuals for the purpose of delivering the right religious information to all parts of the community. In this context, about 7 million artifacts were distributed to our people for free in 2019. In addition, many religious works, particularly the Qur'an and the Karim, are published in different languages and dialects. The Ministry of Religious Affairs also conducts its work to reach more people with television and radio broadcasts. In 2018, the final account cost of the Ministry of Religious Affairs was 8 billion 356 million and 36 thousand liras. The start-up grant of the presidency in 2019 was 10 billion 445 million $979, and the total funding for the 2020 budget is 11 billion 519 million 609,000. About 97 per cent of the institution's budget is earmarked for staff salaries and SGK bonus costs. There were 10.22% in staff costs; 8.37 per cent in other costs; 10.28 per cent in total. There is no increase in investment funds. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are conducting the work of our Defence Industry Presidency to ensure that the weapons, equipment and so forth of our military and other security units are met with maximum domestic and national resources, modernisation and technology development activities. In this framework, our defence industry has reached a very good point, the number of defence industry projects has reached 700, the annual defence industry and aviation turnover reached $8.8 billion in 2018, and exports have reached $2.2 billion. In 2019, our exports continued to increase. Mr. President, our precious lawmakers, our TCG ANADOL ship has been launched into the sea, our ANKA-S, our ATAK helicopters, which have been effectively used and developed by our military and security forces, have been launched from our local facilities, our ATMACA, our national shipping missile, our ATMACA, our inventoryed TCG KINALADA, our primary delivery system, our H.C.G.A.D.A.D.D.M.M.M.M.M., our TC.G.A.A.A.D.A.D.O.U.U.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.A.M.A.D.M.D.D.A.D.D.D.D.D.D.D., our ship has been launched into the sea, our A.A.K.A.K.A.A.K.A.K.A.K.K.A.A.K.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.C.C.A.A.A.A.A.A.C.A.A.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D.D. by our military.D.D. by our military by our military, our military, our military, our military, our military, our military, our military, our military forces, our military, our military force, our military, our military Today, a thousand have been delivered, and at this moment, we are able to produce all kinds of products by our means. Our national torpedo, AKYA, has been successfully tested with gunshots. We continue our efforts to be in the lead position of progress, not in the defence industry. In this scope, we continue our work in advanced technologies, such as land, drones, laser weapons systems, electromagnetic launch systems, UAV technology, autonomous systems, solid-strength hybrid fuel, multiple ranges and various capabilities, with very few countries operating in these areas around the world. In fact, many of the technologies that we refer to as the autonomial systems here will make us extremely powerful in other sectors, and one of them is a different sector that we refer to as flying vehicles that are facing the future, especially again. Turkey is already taking steps to take its place much more firmly in the future. In the coming period, the highly useful load-capable Aksungur (AK) is to be ready for use as of this year's end, to continue intensive work on key and advanced technologies at critical levels, to deliver our TCG ANADOLU ship to our Navy by the end of 2020, and to be able to inventory the Akincı (Akinci) aircraft, to be removed from the hangar in 2023, to be ready to use its new generation of armored vehicles, tanks, helicopters, and missiles to be used by continuing the certification processes of our Sky helicopter. This is the removal of our national combat plane from the hangar in 2023. It is directly related to what we call today's F-35 or so on. Hopefully, in the future, as with our current drones, there will be a Turkey here that is not in a position to ask, expect, demand anything from other countries, as in many technologies. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] 12 of the 13 findings found in the 2017 Court report on the presidency were carried out, and there were one evidence of performance control submitted to the Court report in 2018. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the head of the National Intelligence Agency, are creating national security intelligence across the state, delivering this information to our President and the necessary agencies, to units. According to the final account at the end of 2018 years, the annual cost is 2 billion,884 million,777,000 liras, and the initial grant of 2019 is 2 billion,157,761,11,000 liras, the head of the National Intelligence Agency is envisioned in 2020 for a grant of $2 billion,182 million,381,000. Our country is in the midst of the change in the international system when balances have changed, hybrid methods have been used, international agreements and structures that form the current order have gone through serious tests. In the process, effective intelligence work is being conducted by the head of the National Intelligence Agency, which has achieved successful and finalised operations abroad and abroad. The agency is still working with the same determination in this delicate period, as in the past, against all terrorist organisations, including PKK, ACK, TYD, YPG, ▪, PDY, DEAS, which operate against the integrity of the country and the nation. On the other hand, the Fırat Shield, which has been launched against the construction of our state and the security of our nation, has played an active role in both the MIT and diplomacy foot of Operation Olive Branch and Peace Fountain, both in the field and has played an important role in eliminating threats to our country. These successful studies are also appreciated by our citizens. Speaking of which, I would also like to point out some issues regarding false allegations regarding Turkey's operations in Syria. Those who want to see all the people in the region, including women, children, old people, Kurds, even Kurds, who have dominated these people with fear, persecution and oppression, and those who exploit the area for sovereign forces, can look at YPG/PYD, PKK, SDG (the Kurds), and the areas in which they rule. Turkey, including the Kurds in Syria, has established safe zones in which Syrian fugitives can return home, ending the terrorist order in the region. Turkey has also done what is necessary and ensured border security against those who attempt to harm their own citizen and his property. Our nation has never been an invader in history, nor is it today, nor will it ever be in the future. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This year, the 2228th anniversary is celebrated by our army, the army of peace and civilization. The Turkish nation, whose past is full of glory and glory, has brought peace and civilization everywhere it goes, and here are the examples of Cerablus, El Bab, and Afrin. We're talking about an environment where we're trying to get all kinds of services for mankind, people trying to get what they need in the marketplace, people, children, women getting bombed, and people bombings. Our security forces will continue to build peace by watering the springs of peace in the midst of the crisis in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace. I leave the account of those who slander our nation's spirit of unity and cooperation to history and the conscience of our nation. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are tasked with the preparation of the National Security Council General Secretaryship, the operations of the National Security Council on the activities of the campaign and NATO works, including the Council's views on domestic and external defence modes, in order to ensure national security services, and achieve national security goals. The new National Security Policy Document has been drafted and implemented. Today, we have noted the necessary criticism. The Secretary General conducts his work under the principles of democracy and the rule of law, his duties and responsibilities given by law. For all of his activities, the final account costs at the end of 2018 years were $29,33,000 and the start-up grant of 2019 was 32 million 341,000. The total funding offered for 2020 is 34,77,000 liras. According to all findings regarding the General Secretariat in the 2017 Court report, the Court's audit report in 2018 did not include any findings. Mr. President, in co-ordinating the strategy and budget presidency, the development plan was re-examined in 2019, implementing a sectoral priorities approach to the plan, with consultations with different institutions, institutions, private sectors, academia and NGOs. In addition to the creation of the joint, macroeconomic framework and preparing the general balance of the public sector, the ministry and the Treasury and Finance Ministry have prepared the New Economy Programme, which covers 2020-2022, in consultation with institutions on the savings of public finance and proposals for reform and measures. The New Economy Programme has a framework aimed at economic transformation and change in price stability, financial stability and the balance of current transactions, focused on production and efficiency, sustainable growth and fair sharing. Another basic policy document in communication and coordination with institutions under the basic priorities and policies set in the 11th Development Plan is the Presidential Annual Programme of 2020. The programme, which we view as an important reform area for our budget system, is being co-operated with by the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, as well as by the chairman of Strategy and Budget. The move to the programme budget system will enable strengthening of the plan, programme and budget connection, creating information on setting spending priorities for decisionmakers, developing a conclusion-oriented financial management understanding, monitoring and evaluation process to serve accountability and transparency. Guides and standard documents to improve the quality of the public-private co-operation projects and to increase the capacity of public-private cooperation models in specific areas have also been started. It is important that research infrastructure projects are supported in areas that are considered strategic and important to our country in terms of the development of the RD ecosystem in a holistic and competitive structure, including foundation universities established by law. The process of supporting research infrastructure projects from eight foundation universities is already under way, and 40m euros have been earmarked for 2020. The Permanent Committee for Economic and Trade Co-operation (İSEDAK), which our President is president of, is the country's most important economic and commercial project towards the Islamic world. In 2019, members of the Islamic Co-operation Agency with our country were reunited and our strategic co-operation in terms of the global economy has been strengthened once again. The exact cost of the strategy and budget presidency in 2018 was 45 million and 514 thousand liras. The start-up grant of the presidency in 2019 was $260m, $544,000, and the budget for 2020 rose by 3.382% compared to 2019. Back-up funds were the main reason for the increase in the budget of the Treasury and Finance Ministry in 2019 and in 2020, when the reserve grant was put into the presidential budget for $8.8 billion. Thus, in 2020, 9 billion 73 million and 161,000 euros are being earmarked for the presidency. Mr. President, respected lawmakers are contributing to maintaining the stability of the financial system through the Savings Insurance Fund, which has been established to protect the rights of deposit holders, which it has collected from financial institutions to protect the deposit insurance company with its identity. The total insurance deposit rate of the TMSF reserve, which is worth 48 billion liras, is 7.1%. The total amount of insured deposits increased to $677 billion as of October, with the deposit insurance limit raised to 150,000 at the end of September. Following the treasonous coup attempt on July 15th, another task was the management of companies that were put on trial. As of December, in our 37 provinces, the TMSF has been assigned to 830 companies, whose active sizes are around 59.67 billion liras, total turnovers of 24.73 billion liras, total resources of 23.97 billion liras, and TMSF as trustees again. During the past three years, the TMSF has increased its assets by about 38 per cent, its resources by 31 per cent, and its turnovers by 13 per cent. Mr. President, the value of our archives, which are of great importance to the Turkish and world history, is increasing day by day, and as a sign of this, the State Archives Presidency is continuing its activities with the importance of document management and archive savings based directly on the presidency. In this framework, researchers have been able to access public archives from their homes or from their workplaces as part of the online document image service presented by the presidency. The presidency is rapidly trying to digitize information by protecting the originals of documents, to access archive documents quickly, correct and requested formats. The President of the State Archives also signed important tasks in international activities and signed protocols with 47 countries in the world's different geography for co-operation in the archive area. The president's mandate, in accordance with international standards, highlights the savings and efficiency of document management and archivistialism, has about 63 million documents in the electronic system, aimed at reaching 77 million in line with their 2023 bids. There is no final account of the State Archives presidency for 2018 years, and in 2020 it is envisioned to allocate 101,632 thousand liras to the presidency. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers will continue to implement new projects and activities in the coming period to boost our economy's strategic importance in terms of international competition, by sticking to the cultural and historical backgrounds of all structures, including the National Government of Palaces. In 2019, more than 2 million people visited the national palaces and contributed significantly to tourism revenues. In 2020, the National Palaces plan to carry out eight important projects and restoration activities for palaces, mansions, muscle and museums. They're about the preservation of history, and they're never meant to be given anything, as they claim. At the end of 2018 years of the presidency of the National Courts, the exact cost of the account is $22,600,000. In 2019, the initial grant of 120 million and 527,000 euros was envisioned in 2020 for a total of 157 million and 390 thousand liras. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since there will be the question-answer part, I will not be answering all the questions here, but I will answer the question-answer in a moment, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement on two or three issues. One: do it one more time without touching the point and the decimal. The Tank Pallet Factory... which we've been coming up many times, and we've answered over and over again, and we've been almost tired of answering, but it's been brought up so many times -- as I said before -- I'm giving you the same answer once again for the record, without even touching the decimal, in the budget of our National Ministry of Defense to explain the matter with all the details of our Minister of Defense. I'd like to say that the property of the factory is in the state and that the right to operate is transferred only to the BMC, which is co-operation of Qatar and Turkey for a while, and that the factory will work more effectively and efficiently with the investments to be made. (AK PARTI) The aim was to ensure efficient and efficient use of country resources in defence industry, minimise available capacity in the factory, improve factory business efficiency, create new jobs and production opportunities and increase exports, and use the private sector's speed of business and access to high technology. In this context, I have reiterated once again that the company that will modernise the factory in accordance with the needs of the age, will also make all the necessary renovation investments at the factory and will invest at least $50 million in areas that will be determined to improve capacity. Another thing: I wanted to mention it specifically because it touches people. There was a statement for our President's family. Each individual who is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey has the right to serve this country. I think criticism under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly would be much more elegant and meaningful to focus on work, not on individuals' personalities or relatives. In particular, I think it's unfortunate that Mr. Emine Erdogan, an internationally respected figure, including the Zero Waste Project, refugees, preventing violence on women, and many other aspects of women's place in society, was involved in the discussions here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another matter of my own. This has been brought up over and over again, including the Plan and Budget Commission. And I'd like to do that again here without actually touching too much content. In the previous system, during the prime minister's term, I had a short-term board membership at the time, as was every undersecretary of the prime minister. One issue that has been particularly sensitive to public opinion during this period: their partners have not been handed out a penny and are not allowed to be loaned by the company with a single penny of foreign currency. Again, at the same time, the legal process - the joint process against OTAS, the Oger Telecommunications, was initiated by myself, and all rights and powers stemming from the Treasure's Shareholders Convention and the main contract. Documents and records are also clear. I think it's important that I protect the interests of others, that I'm sensitive about them. I would like to say once again that no matter who he touches, I will continue to decide in every position and position in the interests of the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I'd like to end my statement by thanking you and our esteemed deputies, including the President's President, Mr. President, Mr. Chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission and members of the President's Committee for their contribution and support as part of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Accountment Law Proposal in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I wish our budget of 2020 was a blessing for our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0421par0099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0422par0103	Mr. President, given the statements made by Mr. Vice President on the stand, of course we thank you for the questions he answered. There are parts of him that he refuses to answer, and we will continue to be his followers after the question-and-answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0423par0104	I'll answer the question-and-answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0422par0105	But the fact is that on December 17th and July 15th, the matter of resistance to the same spirit, that Fehmi Korir was sent to Pennsylvania for the sullhement on December 17th, didn't you still go to Fehmi Korun's? I'll fly to his question, I bought my ticket. We'd give him a private plane on December 17th. So when someone tried to take a hit on December 17th... the fact that some evidence was collected illegally doesn't eliminate the reality of the evidence, it means that the evidence is legally worthless. But they put the money first. We know the people who say, "Well," and then take it back with interest and so on. On December 17th-25, besides being an issue of the people, if the four ministers were my brother, who had committed theft, I would have cut off his arm. From the point where those who said that word were beheaded to a point where their heads had been cut off. At the same time, if you take this out on the political ethics law, you won't find the mayor, you won't find the mayor. This nation hasn't forgotten the matter. Now, I'm going to give Mr. Vice President a chart that I distributed to the groups the other day and to the ministers. I care about CIMER. If he's expressing a citizen's problem and he finds an echo on the government floor, how much is the solution... but I care about CIMER. In the year 2020, I also care about the commitment of the average response period to a week. Well, Mr. Vice President has said that the nation's deputy must be answered during the 15-day legal period of the motion to question... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to file an 8.95 per cent performance on something written in the Constitution, in the Civil Code, in which the Speaker of Parliament has been given the authority to submit a review to those who exceed the deadline, at the point where all ministers are averaged 8.19, and the Vice President's Vice President has answered the question motions. The number of questions he answered during the 15-day period is 486 of the 5,400 total question, and 294 and 35 percent of what happened after the deadline. These questions, which he has been asked to answer, leave this Parliament, and go to the people's name, and go to the Speaker's letter, leave 65 of the 100 questions unanswered. Besides, Mr. Vice President, as quickly as the questions of this nation are answered, we appreciate that, but this nation has its deputies, its deputies, they ask questions. First you tell Mr. Fuat Oktay the matter, and then you ask each other serious questions: if there is time, I will read them. Mr. Fuat Oktay's response to a serious question motion with nine questions, the Central Bank Law: The answer to the question proposed to my side under Article 98 of the Constitution has been submitted to me. You are looking at the answer, as it does not answer any questions, the President of the Central Bank of Turkey has taken account of the law and has taken part in Article 3 of the Constitution (I). The term of office is on the ruler number (III) of the presidential decision. It gives the answer. If I were to read the questions asked, I would not be able to bear this answer. So the questions are detailed. I have countless samples, countless examples. 17 questions about the presidential decree, answer, answer...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0424par0111	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0422par0112	No payment was made to members of the Presidential Policy Board in 2018. The service of the councils to the secretary is carried out by the Chairman of Executive Affairs. There are nine questions in detail, none of which he takes seriously and doesn't answer. The answers are usually processed according to the relevant law. It's the same day we say there's an argument in the back. We say, "There's a laugh in the back, they don't listen." We say, "They do their duty." As he says, they answer by heart. I mean, the questions of the public defenders, this beautiful system... The trilateral coalition government's response rate is 86 per cent; the response rate of the 22nth term is dropping by 72 per cent, but it falls from 25 per cent to 8 per cent, the respect for parliament; let's see this. Now, one other thing, very briefly: Tank Palet... Mr. Vice President, the official donation to the President's Presidential campaign is more than an investment in the factory that you gave for 25 years to modernise the Tank Palet Factory. Look, let's start a campaign, let's do a public spot for the presidents who are in the parliament, who have a group and a deputy, and let's say that Tank Paletin needs money. Let's say we raise that money in a day. If I'm not mistaken about our presidential candidate -- 25 million, over 50 million people have volunteered for your presidential candidate. You're giving the Tank Palette Factory, 20 billion factory, 25 years to Qatars for 50 million. Such an approach, no such logic. ▪ The army of the Republic of Turkey will develop those opportunities to develop jobs.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0425par0120	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0426par0121	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute... Mr. Free, here, pick it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0427par0123	It didn't work out for you? If you call this nation local, national, local, national, and call it 100 percent local, 100 percent domestic, 100 percent Qatar...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0428par0126	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0427par0127	...and someone came out and said that on TV, the president said that, and he found me one crazy Tripolian. Not if you don't include the Qatars. I said, "He's called the sheik." There's no privatisation, there's no allocation, there's no national position. Oh, and here's the thing, Mr. Vice President, the bottom line is, I object to the party state, not me, but the individual state, the family state, the AK PARTI. One son, one daughter, one groom, the other groom... or look at the state you're in. Look, your response to pensioners in retirement is: "They want a double salary, it's not gonna happen." My brother, Fahrettin is getting 5 salaries from Altun. Five wages: one from the Communication Presidency, one from the Stock Exchange Board of İstanbul; one from the University of Marmara and his wife are getting 5 salaries from Turkish Airlines. And Allah knoweth his wife, the three for himself of the mighty Cloud. Cemil Aşım tells himself three, three, three to himself by Mustafa Aşıt Karatlı, three... and that these people are going to get in front of him, saying: "What a double salary, if I were retired, I couldn't get a job, I couldn't get a job." A double pay critique for EYT, for everyone in the palace, for every person around you, three, two, five wages for your wife, it's not going to happen. It touches the conscience. Look, this party... you're saying -- my last word -- hold on, hold on to the old deputies, hold on to the former mayors, don't let them run away.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0429par0130	That's not what we're saying.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0430par0131	Says who, bro? There's no such thing, Mr. President!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0431par0132	Mind your own party, your own party.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0432par0133	If you're that strong, they won't run anywhere. The party's falling apart because of these disgraces. See this, and if you are to rule, rule with mercy and conscience, and do not mock the minds of the people. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0433par0136	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0434par0138	Mr. President, we've had a long day. I don't know how many times we've talked about this Tank Palet thing. Mr. Vice President has just expressed himself, and let's say once again, there's a lot wrong in there. First of all, what are you getting at? So we're returning this word to you exactly, and we haven't done anything to anyone, and we're not going to film it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[I wish they were from CHP rows.]] That's right, that's right. The numbers you're saying are the truth...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0435par0143	Didn't they give you 50 million?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0436par0144	If he rented the factory, let's see the return contract.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0437par0145	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... What are you talking about, Congressman, for fuck's sake?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0146	Your president has spoken a lot, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0437par0147	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0148	I mean, the answer doesn't mean anything to you, I know, but at least for the people who listen to us...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0439par0149	It's not like that, it's not like that, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0150	Yes, it is.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0439par0151	It's not, it's not.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0152	If it means anything, please hear me out.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0439par0153	What are we going to do about Ahmet Hamdi Pine?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0154	Mr. Special, look, I listened to you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0439par0155	I'm just saying that to listen.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0156	I care about your words, I've listened, and I'd like to answer to your dear friends. Now, what's important to us at the factory you mentioned about Tank Palet is that Turkey so far can't make its own tank because it can't build its own engine. What is desired is that with these studies from abroad -- this might not have been a Qatar firm; it could have been another firm; it could have been an American; it could have been a Canadian -- including foreign capital, including its capital; it wants to produce a fully domestic tank with this financial budget that it reveals to no one -- not by taking anything else. Not just the tank, but beyond that, he's trying to become independent in the defense industry; that's what he's trying to do. You're going around talking about $20 billion. This factory isn't even over yet. It's not over. Besides, there are prototypes that were made -- I just told you about it during the day. These prototypes were also made by other companies in Turkey, and they used the basic evening of this factory because it was a work area that wanted special residency, both as a location and as a state secret. Therefore, no one in this House, who respects this nation, this land, this state, shall take away the property of any soul, not the property of any nation, not the property of any nation, not the wealth of any nation, not the wealth of any human being. We vouch for this, we're here, it can't be. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, you're talking about answering questions, over 5,000 questions. Mr. Fuat Oktay does not sit down and write these questions with his own hands; there are units that write these questions that answer them in a legal, logical way that they can answer themselves, and that's how it has to be. Similarly, for CIMER... the CIMER is a great opportunity. We care, of course the question is precious.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0440par0162	Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0163	Whether it comes from our MPs or from our citizens, every question is valuable. In that sense, I know that both our ministries and our friends in the presidency are working with great zeal, the offices there, the working conditions. In that sense, why don't we just run away from the answer, so if there's any questions, the answer will certainly be answered. Besides, Mr. President, our vice president will be able to provide further information on this matter. Now, about these salaries... you say: "Hold him in the PATI, hold him... " Sir, there's an interesting sentence, what is it? We're not going to find the mayor, we're not going to find the mayor.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0441par0166	We didn't say that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0442par0167	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0168	That's what you said.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0442par0169	No, I mean, if Erdogan Davutoglu has a political ethics law, you can't find the mayor, the mayor...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0443par0170	Listen! Listen!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0171	That's what you said. Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0442par0172	If there's a political ethics law, you won't be able to find the mayor. I said, "You won't be able to find the mayor."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0444par0173	Don't cut it, don't cut it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0174	There's no need for ethics.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0442par0175	That's what he said.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0176	To this day, every friend of mine at this party has done his job perfectly, without waiting for anything. Thousands of women, thousands of women... look, I've been president of the Istanbul Women's Arms. The women of this party drove to and from the grocery cart to the department store, to the department store's service car, to pay for their own pockets, to cook in their own house, to make a meal, to make sacrifices, toil. No one has the right to underestimate the people who work for these organizations, to devalue them, to claim that they are working for a profit. Everyone worked for their ideals, their ideas, at this party. He's willing, he's willing, he's willing to work for our agencies. Today, we do congresses, and you do, a lot of new people, young people, and people who have served in our agencies, we don't have to hold anything, we don't have to hold anything. We walk with those who believe in us. Whoever wants to be here, let him come, brother. We believe in ideas. Who doesn't want to stop at this point anymore, wants to leave? So it's his choice to go, he decides what he wants to do with his free will. But our people do this, and I say to them: Our people have great power; who is honest, who is sincere, who is sincere, who has come to this point with his efforts, and who has come to it by what means, and who decides according to it. We do everything we do in public, and the people will decide. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0445par0179	Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0438par0180	We respect everything people give us. We believe, see, I personally believe that people's law to one another is similar to their relationship with the Lord. We're in a fine line of relationships with our people. With our law with our nation, we do business with the fear of losing his favor in everything we do; we do business with dignity and envy. So that's what you're saying about the work we do, you know, some things, like you've never taken them to the castle... it's not possible. Every job we do is for our nation, and it is for us to seek the consent of Hakk. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0445par0183	Okay, thank you. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0446par0185	Mr. President, I'm not going to ask because there's no answer to any claim I've already made.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0447par0186	Where there's no answer, there's all of it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0446par0187	At a council meeting...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0448par0188	Now, I just want to give you a heads-up: our lawmakers, who have been on a steady course in Parliament, are not talking to each other, they've come around in the last five minutes, so they've come around, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, they're all over the place. (Applause) So I'm going to identify them and report them to the presidents, see, I'm telling you. He's coming in the last five minutes, he's throwing five words, he's messing it up. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0446par0191	Mr. President, I said not to open it too short, but I'll tell you this: I've never answered anything I've already said or complained about. We heard a speech from a city council.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0449par0192	I'm sorry, I don't understand.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0446par0193	But something's been cut off from the context, so let's make it clear. What I'm saying is that when Davutoglu tries to pass the political ethics law -- the last five laws in the European Union's integration process -- you can't find the mayor of the county, that's what I meant. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0450par0195	Not at all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0451par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0452par0197	Miss Özlem, in a word. Is that a thing? No.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0451par0200	Mr. President, we've been on the force all these years. Can anyone hear me? Zinhar doesn't exist, it's made up; you're making it up. It's definitely made up, it's not made up, it's made up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0452par0201	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0453par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. You're doing very well today. It's been good this time of day for all of us, thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to say that Mr. Fuat Oktay explained the July 15 coup as he began his speech. In fact, I consider it a crime for Congress -- not to be provoked by the AKP right now. In this sense, all the parties here, together, including the non-group, still curse the coup attempt at the time, as they did yesterday, have been cursed today. Now, we all have friends who are already suffering from past blows, who are being tortured, and in this blow, and in fact after the coup. I didn't make the fight, we didn't do it; who did it, it's not in the middle. Why do we have to pay for this? Why do we pay so much? Still, a large part of society is looking for the answers. Now, while Mr. Oktay is present, we agree for opposition parties -- at least three parties -- the vague thing is that the coup must be cursed, but we say that one leg of this coup is still unclear, there is a uncertainty. We propose, the AKP and the MPP refuse. Our motions -- let them give you an order -- I want to make a suggestion here that this foot will be accepted, that this foot will be searched, that it will be clear, that we can all bury this process together, that we can end it. So it's called Fair Orphan, Fair Orphan, nobody -- at least HDP -- we don't really believe that it's wanted, that the judiciary is looking for it, that they can't find it, that we don't think it is, I'd like to say this. The second thing is that the operation called the Fountain of Peace is called the HDP.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0454par0208	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0453par0209	As Kurds, our brothers and sisters live there, under great persecution, as a whole, in fact, because of a war there that's been going on for years, I'm also saying that Turkey is not involved. However, right now, Turkey has not gone there to deliver a hand of peace, roses and so forth, there is no war on an empty field, there is a settlement, there is people, there is villages, there is counties, there is cities, and there is a great destruction. What do you say when we say something like that? Here's what I want to say to our nation, to our army, once again: nobody says anything to our nation, don't take it there, don't make it a shield for yourselves. We criticize and deny these unmanageable policies of yours. Right now, it's a lifeline that you're hugging to secure your power, and that's how we see it, friends, and most of all, you're doing it thinking about the future of your seat, the future of your power, and you've also gone there so that the Kurds don't get any status. Neither America nor Russia nor you have any business there, my friends. Let's go back, please. Let's go back. Now, we've been asking a lot of questions... but it doesn't work, guys, when you're being bullied, you're making a scene.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0454par0210	Here you go, Fatma.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0453par0211	Mr. Oktay, I'd like to say this. We didn't get the answer to the question, the HDP couldn't get it, and the President of the Commission is here, he knows -- and when the Minister of Commerce arrived, we didn't find out: there's a volume of trade with the Olive Dalli Customs Gate, who do they see it with? Who are the contacts there?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0454par0213	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0453par0214	Who does Turkey see in this trade? What does he import, where does he sell, what does he buy, what does he give, what does he do? The answers to these questions really stand out. The HDP would like to ask you here one more time, and he'd really like to know. If it's not ISIS, if it's not ISIS's leftovers, you've already driven Kurds all over the place, everyone's had to leave their homes, their homes, their homes, their homes, if they're not, then we're wondering who's imaginary? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0454par0217	Thank you very much. I'm not saying for a polemic, Fatma Hanim, I have a film, I'll send it tomorrow, they'll greet the soldiers with drums, the Turkish soldier, so you'll know. I'll send it to you, so I didn't say it for a polemic.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0455par0221	They're movie presidents, movies.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0456par0222	President, I think it's that movie.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0457par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0458par0224	Yes, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0459par0225	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0457par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0459par0227	I'll go first...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0457par0228	Mr. Fuat Oktay... Mr. President, one moment, I have permission from Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0460par0230	Just a minute, Mr. Vice President. Fatma, come in, tell me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0457par0234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President Fuat Bey. Here's the thing: I don't think you should be involved in this, Mr. President. A statement of opinion...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0460par0236	I just...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0457par0237	I mean, I've watched this, it doesn't work that way. It means, you know, to throw away a thought or to support it...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0460par0238	No, I'll send it to you, you watch it, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0457par0240	No, no, I'm good. I know what's going on out there. Mr. President, houses are falling down there, olive groves are being looted, and hundreds of thousands of people have had to leave home and home. The biggest thing is -- there are all women -- women there in a great drama, in persecution, and women, we've said it before, it's unacceptable, but they're being harassed, raped. That's what we know.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0461par0241	Stop slandering me!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0457par0242	You go see that film with the AKP people, along with your group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0462par0243	Yes, Fatma. Yes, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0463par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start with the last question. In the Assembly of the Nation, to the army of the nation, or to the nation...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0464par0248	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0465par0249	Not the army, but the government, no.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0463par0250	I refuse to be used as a statement and to make a defense against it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0464par0251	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0465par0252	There's no such thing as a government...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0464par0253	He didn't say that. Don't twist it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0465par0254	We say to your government, don't make it sound like you're going against the military and the nation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0466par0255	We're telling you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0464par0256	Power, power!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0257	The Turkish army and Turkish nation, the Republic of Turkey, have never been an invader anywhere, can not be an invader. There's terror, there's baby killers, there's child killers...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0464par0258	You're twisting, you're twisting!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0259	...female harassment, rape, all kinds of cruelty, fear, oppression. The Republic of Turkey and the Turkish army...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0468par0260	That's right, that's right, the SOCs did it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0261	There are 4 million people here, especially Kurds, who have escaped persecution, fear, oppression.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0469par0262	They fled ISIS.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0263	And I was the one who took them. I was the one who took them, the one who saved those children, the one who greeted the people crying at the door, the one who took the women. I didn't see you there. (AK PARTY) The Turkish Army has done this operation there to create a safe zone there and to get these people back to their homeland, not to invade, it's one. Secondly, in the previous meeting, I remember, on the other hand, we didn't even see a single pebble being thrown.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0469par0264	Yeah, yeah. It's unknown where the children come from.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0265	Here we, Muhammad, remember that babies, children were killed, dozens of our citizens were killed. Every time I come to the House, I begin here with the condolences of a martyr. The people who stepped on the IIP, who were killed in a different way by bombs or by missiles... who's killing them, who's coming from?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0470par0266	You know that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0267	I strongly condemn you to use the word "Turkish Republic" against these terrorists, these murderers, these children's killers, the women they kidnapped, the people who raped them in the mountains, the people who harassed them, the Turkish army, the Turkish security forces.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0470par0269	One God knows, and you know, and we know. It's not like that, really. God knows and you know.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0471par0270	There's no such thing, there's no such thing. Don't flex. They're talking about your power, your power.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0271	As for the first question, Mr. Special, I've listened to it for a long time, and thank you for your explanation, and I got the note you sent me. I'm looking at the latest records I have, which have been sent to me by 5.293 written question motions. When the questions come, I look at this. One, the questions that I can answer, which are directly in my interest, or the questions about any ministry or any ministry-related institution or institution associated with it, the institution associated with it? If it's about me directly, I'll give you the answer right away, if it's not about the relevant institution, no one at the Ministry, no one at the relevant institution, I'm giving it directly to him, I'm sending it to you, answer this question. Because I don't answer any subject by heart. It could have been the goodwill of my speech about the friends in the back, not the memorization. I don't answer by heart.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0272	But the government has an average of 8 per cent, and the Minister has a 35 per cent response rate.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0273	So when we look at these questions, the 767 is about me, and I've actually answered 594 of them, and 47 of them are coming today. If you look at these, adding futures, 84 percent is 78 percent of what we already answer. After I submit all of the others to the relevant institutions, I'm also informing the Parliament in the same way, in the same way, in the same way, in the same way, in the same way, I say: The question asked in your number question is that the relevant institution was sent to be answered to you, and it is not about that which you do not answer; in fact, I'm informing you, and in effect, I'm informing you. So please don't question my respect for the House. I mean, our respect for the House, our respect for each and every one of us...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0274	Mr. Vice President, you've reached a point where I care very much. He's not asking the president questions directly. In the past, it's not clear which minister was involved...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0467par0275	No, no, let's get this straight, so let's get this straight about me, that's the point.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0276	No, no...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0473par0277	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0278	I'll tell you this: the method you said was in the questions asked to the Prime Minister, who was also coming to us as Prime Minister. Besides, you're dealing with...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0474par0279	I've discussed this with the Speaker, and after consultation, I've followed up with such a method.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0280	See, the average of the ministers you distribute is 8.65 percent. So there's a total failure.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0474par0281	Look, your question was about me, about me, I answered him.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0282	No, I did, you have it. Look, the total average of the cabinet is 8.65 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0475par0283	Mr. Freeman, please respond to our Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0284	No, look, the ones you sent don't respond, either.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0476par0285	I'll talk to our ministers, our friends, we'll see each other, we'll try to increase those rates.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0286	Numbers don't lie, so it's pretty clear.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0476par0287	Here we have friends who answered 90-91 percent of the list you just sent me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0288	Here, review, all the averages are there. Mevlüt Davoglu, a total of 92 per cent, but the cabinet average is 8 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0476par0289	So one last thing, I don't know who gets paid, I don't ask, I don't know what others get, but I know what I get, and the only salary I get. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0472par0291	Fahrettin gets five, works for you. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Presidential Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0477par0332	On behalf of the individuals, Tekirdağ MP Enez Kaplan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0478par0334	Mr. President, I have made a promise against you in the eighth round of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I condemn the persecution of the Chinese administration against our descendants in the Uygur Autonomous Region. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, the presidential budget was earmarked for 648 million in 2017, 845 million in 2018, while the presidential government system was transferred to 231 per cent higher than the previous year, while the presidential grant was raised to $2.8 billion in 2020 to 3.1 billion. While the revenues of millions of paid people in our country are constantly improving, the palace lives far away from our citizens, who are constantly encouraging people to save money, despite the steep increase in the presidency's budget. While our country is in a great economic crisis, there is no right or justice or conscience to increase the court's budget in excess. When Mr. President came to Ankara, he lived in an apartment in Goatören. I'd like to ask: Didn't the Republic of Turkey have a reputation at the time? Dear lawmakers, what is the problem with Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the republic of today's Ministry of Religious Affairs? For many years, Fridays, the national festivals have been unremembered by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founding leader of the Republic of Turkey. It's a mistake to see the founder of our country and its comrades fighting with it as a political figure. For the record, the Dianet is an institution of the Republic of Turkey founded by Ataturk. Unfortunately, we are seeing some events in which our supreme religion has been used to politics. On November 10th, all flags fell in half in Turkey, but they didn't cut the flag in half at Tekirdağ mufti. In the central mosque of Hendek district of Sakarya Province, the teacher praises the Eurasia Tunnel in his court, and scolds the congregation saying, "Don't make politics in the mosque." Are mufti the mufti of the AKP or the mufti of the nation? It is disrespectful to visit the so-called historian, the so-called Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation, who said, "If only Greece had won in the Battle of Salvation." For years, you've been in contact with members of the PKK's terrorist organization. Aren't you the ones who used to sing praises to the traitor in the mosques, on Fridays? Dear lawmakers, there's one thing I'd like to talk about in the budget where we discuss the final account of the Press and Information General Directorate, which is the problems of the local press. Local media, which is the fourth power of democracies, is in great financial distress, for which many journalists have been unemployed. In the official ads issued by the Press Advertisement Agency, the removal of the VAT will relieve local media at least a bit of the removal of 15 per cent commissions from local media. We're also hearing that there will be a study of whether judicial ads should be published in the newspapers. About 60 per cent of the revenues of the newspaper's official ad, distribution and the Press Agency are media. The fact that judicial ads are not published in the newspapers is one of the factors that could have caused hundreds of newspapers to close down and thousands of journalists to become unemployed. At this time when technology and digital journalism are popular, at least 200 newspapers must be removed from the dealerships by hand, and local newspapers must be allowed to distribute.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0479par0344	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0478par0345	Congressmans, historical archives are the most valuable treasures of a nation, a state. On November 21, 2019, after the destruction of the Ottoman archives in Sultanahmet to the new building of the Paperhouse, we submitted a motion to investigate as a PARTI Group to determine that the Ottoman archives were threatened with molding from moisture. In fact, when this project came up, the Chamber of Civil Engineers, city planners, experts in this area suggested that building of the State Waterworks creek bed could have negative consequences. However, the building in the Paperhouse was built without proper measures, and the archives were moved there. I wish the 2020 budget to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0479par0347	Congressmans, the talks on the eighth round are complete. Now we're going to question-answer. Mr. Honorary Name Beautiful.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0480par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 29, 2019, the first flight was said to take place, but after four years of not seeing the face of the runway, it was curious whether the domestic car would share the same fate with the local aircraft. It was announced that the first domestic car would be tested by the President's participation on December 14th, but it was postponed later, and if I'm not mistaken, as of today, no new date has been announced on when the promotion will be held. What is the reason for this delay? Is there a new date set? Or will the local aircraft and local automobile rhetoric come to mind before the election and then become a forgotten promise?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0479par0352	Mr. Karasu...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0481par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. For months, the Press Agency has imposed advertising and ads embargos on newspapers One Day and Universal for reasons that they have not applied to other media organs, such as news headlines and unsourceed use, and later disappeared. In the background of the application, there is pressure and insufferability to be created on opposition and very vocal media institutions. The sanctions against both newspapers who are trying to live on the air with the support of the reader are incompatible with the law. In this context, I'd like to ask you: Will you remove the ban on advertising and ads in One Day and Universal newspapers? Although the reasons for both newspapers have been dismissed, for what reasons do the ban on ads and ads continue?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0482par0356	Mr. Flitz...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0483par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. It is the duty of the President of Religious Affairs to lead the affairs of Islam, religion, worship, and morality, to enlighten the community in this regard. I'd like to ask the Chairman of Religious Affairs: Some men in turbans appear on several national and local television channels in Turkey and offer fetishes for our supreme religion. In our country, the number of mosques is increasing, despite the increasing number of imam orip high schools, the number of theology faculty, and so is atheism and deism. There are also concerns that the Selafim, which is known to be as political as it is religious, is increasing. I'd like to know what the Head of Religious Affairs thinks of these matters. The clergy are expected to be patriots, and they are. However, on June 4, 2019, during the sermon of the Festival of Ramadan prayer, they threw Greek people into the sea. Where did they spill it? It's all lies. If only we'd lost the war that day, maybe we could have rebuilt the Ottomans later. What kind of process has been made about the Imam of the Vesselacar Mosque in Gaziantep Şahinbey district? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0484par0362	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0485par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Oktay, under the terms of the State of Emergency and the amendment to the Constitution, which was carried out by unlawful decisions taken during the referendum vote, you have been appointed vice president. It is against the universal principles of the law that you are acting as an elected, elected president, and you exercise the presidential powers. As it was before, it is clear to the president that it would be more legal for our chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who represents the will of the nation and is in office with elections. Do you think you're being unfair to our President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in this context, and your conscience is clear? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0486par0366	Mr. Clumsy... No. Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0487par0368	Mr. Oktay, we've asked the Secretary of Defense at the Plan and Budget Commission for the staffing of ASELSAN, TAI, and other institutions based on the Prohibition Foundation for Hayra. In response, Mr. Akar said the TAI personnel appointments were not relevant to the ministry, but the postings of defence industry personnel were carried out by the President's approval. Why does the Good Invite Foundation take the lead in these appointments? Again, what rights are granted to the families of the Free Syrian Army? Martyr's salary, rights like home? Is he being given Turkish citizenship? How do you see Tekirdağ Süleymanpaşa County Mufti Ayhan Okur, appointed to the Republican People's Party before the June 23rd elections, despite his ban on politics regarding the Foundation and its duties? Again, on November 10, 2019, Tekirdağ Province and Süleymanpaşa County Muftülüs did not cut the flag in half against the Turkish flag Act. How did those who mourn for three days when the Saudi King died not see that the flag was cut in half despite that Turkish flag law? Do you have any work on this?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0488par0372	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0489par0373	In the Commission phase of the budget, and particularly in the presentations of some ministers in the General Assembly, the Vice President reflected a structure of governance, which has become personal, which, as we have pointed out, has become personal and, unfortunately, partying. You have made it your responsibility, but the entire Assembly has witnessed this reality. In today's presentation, you mentioned an international consultant when you mentioned the Investment Office. Can you explain how many consultants from which countries have been employed and how much money has been paid? Finally, how much money was left from the budget for the supplier of the Yakamoz yacht that was ordered for the presidency? Can you explain where this yacht is being transformed and how much money has been spent on this transformation from the budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0490par0377	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0491par0378	Thank you, Mayor. My question to Mr. Fuat Oktay is: As it is known, the Constitutional Court called off security investigations in civil service and public hiring by violating the Constitution. This practice, which is an OHL application and is not known by the public to what its content includes, has been cancelled, but is said to be actually continuing in many places. The information that comes to us is that a security investigation has been conducted by a unit formed by the governorates for hiring. Isn't that a violation of the law? How many people have been taken into public without a security investigation after the Supreme Court's annulment? How many people have not been appointed in public because they failed to pass the security investigation, from February 1, 2018, to November 29, 2019, when the Constitutional Court called off the regulation? Is there anyone who hasn't started a security investigation before the cancellation? What is the reason for these people's waiting?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0490par0380	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0492par0381	Thank you, Mayor. The Syrian National Army was formed from the remnants of jihadist gangs such as ISIS, Al Qaeda, Al Nusra. The gang's salaries are not paid from their own budget, the Ministry of National Defence said. So, what budget does this gang's salary come from? Is it paid for by covert funds? How much is paid and how much is paid?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0490par0383	Mr. Sagittarius... no. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0493par0385	Mr. President, thank you. The Human Resources Office was established as the presidential government was transferred to its system. According to information from the Commission by Mr. Fuat Oktay, the projects have also been signed. These are projects such as the University-Transport Project, the obligatory of career planning lessons from the Talented Everywhere. But it turns out that the unemployment rate in the young population is increasing day by day, now 26.1 per cent. The hope of the ruling country does not employ our young people. At the beginning of the year, Minister of Treasury and Finance, Mr. Berat Jarrak said that in 2019, we will implement 2.5 million new jobs. Let alone 2.5 million jobs, 623 thousand people lost their jobs. The projects you're putting out, the packages you've released, they're not giving our citizens any jobs, and they're not. I ask: When will you become a salve to the biggest wound in the country?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0494par0388	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0495par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. First, during the last winter, the storm, hail, and the flood caused our narcissist producer to be victimised, and in this spring, he was also seriously injured by extreme heat and poyraz in the Çukova region, which has increased to almost 70 percent. Our farmer, who's already producing under difficult circumstances, is facing a great deal of damage. When are you going to pay for DFI support in 2018? In addition, will you delay the debt of our victims farmers to the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops for two years without interest? It is also known that the Agriculture Bank, which is on the agenda these days, is preparing to take over 51 per cent of the Simit Palace. What's the truth of that? Are there any other investments that public banks in Turkey have in handing out loans, finances, or partnerships? On what basis is the official ads imposed on the Universal and Day papers? These newspapers, which have no use for the government...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0496par0394	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0497par0395	Mr. Oktay, the Adana subway has become a humpback on the back of our people from Adana. We want the subway to take over the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, such as Ankara, Istanbul and Antalya. President Erdogan, in Adana, we are taking over construction of the subway in the June 12, 2011 elections to our Ministry of Transport. Brothers and sisters, if we make a promise, we will do it. Again, on February 4, 2017, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım made the same promise at the Adnan Menderes Gym in Adana. The Ministry now tells us that it is possible for our ministry to take over. The words of the President and Bakil Yıldırım are hanging in Adana. When will you fulfill that promise? Isn't it an honest word in Turkish custom? When are you taking off the presidential decree for the Adana subway? Why does the Canal Istanbul-based President withhold this source from the Adana subway, or is Adana being treated as a stepchild to you?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0496par0397	Now, to answer the questions, I give the word to Mr. Fuat Oktay. Your time is ten minutes. Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0498par0400	Thank you. Mr. President, I'll try to answer any questions I can. One of our preachers had a question about the Ottoman Archives. I'll give you an answer to that question, but I don't have it with me right now, and I'm about to answer that question, Mr. President, somewhere else, I think.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0499par0403	Time is passing, time is passing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0498par0404	Don't worry, I'll take extra time. Is it true that the Ottoman Archives were established in the creek bed? It is not true that the claims that the places where the archive documents were found in the press were underwater, that the documents were damaged, and that they were preserved in inappropriate areas. The ground study reports from relevant institutions indicate that its position on the Ottoman Archive Ashland is appropriate for the necessary engineering and architectural projects. According to the same reports, the additional measure of the treasure it contains is that it should be in its plus-seven jeans. This value has been applied at every point in the cyclone at the construction stage plus 8.20. Thus, an additional measure has been advanced and is intended to prevent any problems that may occur. There was another question, it was about the Armed Forces. It has been asked where the funds for the Foundation for Strengthening Turkish Armed Forces have been spent and whether this foundation is incumbent on the presidency. The trustee delegation of the Turkish Armed Forces Foundation under our President's leadership includes the Vice President, the National Defence Minister, the Chief of General Staff and the President of Defence Industry. 20 per cent of the foundation's gross income is dedicated to the Foundation's administrative expenditures, and 80 per cent to Turkish Armed Forces projects, investments and capital increase set by the General Staff. In 2018, the foundation collected 29 million 449, 311 TL. In 2018, when other pens were included, 52 million 492,831 TL were transferred to the Fund for Investments of the Foundation, 149 million 810,262 TL to the Defence Industry Support Fund to be used in Turkish Armed Forces projects. 14 million, 461,511 TL, reserved for general administrative costs, 35 million,694,541 TL, and 419,721 TL were used to boost the Foundation's assets. Again, there was another question in my speech that I couldn't answer -- then I would answer it -- is there an agreement or agreement with the MGK in the end of the solution process? He's asking a question about the solution process, as far as we can tell. It is the bloody actions of the PKK/KCK terrorist organization that ended this process and the abuse of the state's sincere approach to its allies. Another issue was why the perpetrator of the Ceylan Frontkol was not found? Ceylan Önkol, who shepherded his animals at around ten o'clock on September 28, 2009, was killed as he stepped on a mine planted by members of the killer terrorist organization. They were sending money to the mountain for the trustees assigned to the cities. There were explanations for it, in the form of the mountains and so on. Show me one document about it. There was something shaped like this. Again, in 2014-2019, the first-degree courts in which 42 of the mayors were dismissed were given serious sentences -- I can explain them, but if time is available here -- some of their cases are going on as well. If you look at these court records, you'll find the documents you're looking for. There was another question as to why local government budgets couldn't be reached. All municipalities send their assets and obligations to the Treasury and Finance Ministry in three months each. Consolidated tables prepared in this scope can be accessed from the Ministry's website. In addition, these data are presented publicly by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism under the name General Action Report for Financial Administrations. There was a question about the introduction of the first domestic automobile prototype, and I'm proud to answer that. This is a project that you and each of you will be proud of, and I hope there will be an answer. Soon our vehicles will be ready. Hopefully, both the Turkish public and the markets we can reach will be introduced to all markets in a very, very short time, and you will see. We think you'll be happy, we think you'll like it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another question is, has the President of Religious Affairs established a sports club? Where's the budget coming from? Was the sport transferred from Toto to this club in the form of a source? Although the members of the members of the Ministry of Religious Affairs have established an amateur sports club on their own initiative in the past year, in 2011, they dissolved the club. There has been no transfer of funds from any budget to the remembered club. There was a question about the collar boat. This, again, has been taken over from the Navy, no price has been paid to the Navy. Regarding this, a study of the maintenance of the yacht is being conducted, carried out. There's one thing, again, about the Ministry of Religious Affairs budget, if you'll excuse me. Again, the question regarding the National Security Policy Document, which is updated for what purposes? It is, as you know, a framework text that contains the main goals and foundations of our nation, our country, to ensure the safety of our state. This document was updated in 1973, 1992, 1998, 2005, 2010, 2015. This update is also an update on this frame. Again, what is meant by transfers to the locals in the budget? There was a question: Classifying the central management budget is consistent with the framework of state financial statistics. Transfers to the households are for various purposes, such as education, health care, housing, and for free payment to the households to contribute to their fixed-quality expenditures. As part of the transfers to the household, the payments to agricultural support, scholarship payments, disability care payments, monthly payments under the Law No. 2022 may include paying state contributions to the individual pension system. Another one of the trade tax offices in Ankara, located at the site of Sites, was closed due to the economic crisis? There were two tax offices, John Galip Tax Administration and Muhammad Karabet Tax Administration, which operate to run tax services in the province of Ankara. The tax offices continue to serve, and in the framework of information that has reached me, there is no tax office that has been shut down. Again, there was a question about Agriculture Enterprises:
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0500par0421	Let's report them in writing, Mr. Vice President. Now, in turn, I will have the budgets of public administrations in the eighth round transferred to their exact accounts and budgets read separately to your votes. Members of parliament, all values in budgets and precise accounts are in Turkish liras. I submit to your votes that the presidency be transferred to the central management budget in 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 3.152.937,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the presidency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the presidency in 2018 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Final Account for Central Management Budget for the Presidential 2018 Total allowance 1,719,066,064,83 Budget Expenses 1,648,678,956,42 Canceled allowance 70,387.108,41 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the presidency were adopted in 2018.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0501par0441	Mr. President, let's have a look, let's see who's out there. Mr. President, when you look at the sum of the AKP and the MHP Group, the good PARTI, the HDP, the CHP Group... the budget does not go through.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0500par0442	I submit to your votes that the president of the National Intelligence Agency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 01.75) THE PRESIDENT OF THE MILK'S RESPONSIBILITY 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 2,182.381.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the National Intelligence Agency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the head of the National Intelligence Service will be transferred to the departments of the central management account in 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The National Intelligence Agency President's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total grant 2,902.908.69.69. Budget Expenses 2,884.707.312.40 Canceled Fund 18,201,384.29 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 6,901,406,92 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the National Intelligence Agency's presidency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Secretary General of the National Security Board shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 01.76) GENIAL PROPERTY OF THE MILK 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 34,787,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2020 of the National Security Board's General Secretaryship has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Secretary General of the National Security Board's Central Administration account in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 29.363,745.00 Budget Expenses 29,043,823,15 Canceled Grant 319,921,85 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2018 were adopted by the National Security Board's Secretary General. I submit to your votes that the President of Religious Affairs shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 01.77) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK 1) The National Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 11.519.609.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the President of Religious Affairs, 2018, will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2018 Total allowance 5.168,004,603,87 Budget Expenses 8,356,036,203,35 Emancipation Expenses 3.203,779,037,70 Canceled Fund 11.856.963.49 Refundable to the following year 3.890.474,73 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2018 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the State Archives President will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 01.78) THE PRESIDENT OF THE DELIVER ARCHIVES 1) President of State Archives 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 101.632,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the State Archives Presidency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the President of the National Palaces shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 01.79) THE PRESIDENT OF THE MILITARY SCENE 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 157.398,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the National Palace Administration was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the head of the National Palace Administration will be transferred to the section of the central management account in 2018: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Administration Final Account for 2018 years as head of the National Palace Administration Total allowance 27.435.970.00 Budget Expenses 22,600,938,75 Canceled Fund 2.736.629.93 Payment for the Next Year 2,098,401,32 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2018 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the strategy and budget chairmanship will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 01.80) STRETEGY AND THE BOSS PRESIDENT 1) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 9.073.161,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the strategy and budget presidency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the President of Strategy and Budget in 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Strategy and Budget President 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 69,836,532.00 Budget Expenses 45,514,564,24 Canceled Fund 24.321.967.76 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the strategy and budget presidency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the department of development's central management account in 2018 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 610,657,200,00 Budget Expenses 201.047.116.05 Canceled allowance 409.610.083.95 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development's final account of central management was approved in 2018. I submit to your votes that the President of Communication will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0502par0550	Never, never, they get five paychecks.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0500par0551	I'm reading the general sum: 01.81) THE PRESIDENT OF INTERVIEW 1) Communication Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 368.136,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Communication Presidency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Communication Presidency in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 127,034,768.00 Budget Expenses 114.306.428.08 Canceled Fund 12.728.339.92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. In the year 2018, the central management account of the Communication Presidency was adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Office of Press and Information shall be transferred into the chapters of the Central Executive Account in 2018: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 7:77) BASIN-YAYING AND INFORMATION GENIAL PRODUCTION 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 248,218,732.00 Budget Expenses 248,217,923,38 Canceled Payment 808,62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Central Administration account of 2018 was adopted by the Office of Press and Information. I submit to your votes that the Defense Industry Presidency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.28) THE PRESIDENT OF AVOLUTION 1) Defence Industry Presidency Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 100,839.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 100,839.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The central management budget of the Defence Industry Presidency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the section of the Central Executive Account of the Defence Industry Presidency of 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 88.322.050.00 Budget Expenses 83.244.855.11 Canceled Fund 5,077.194.89 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 66.011.000.00 Collection 84.022.857,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Defence Industry Presidency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Prime Minister's 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of his final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Prime Ministership 2018 Central Management Terms Total allowance is 1.794.942.479.85 Budget Expenses 1,700,160,104.94 Canceled allowance 94,782.374,91 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central administration account of 2018 of the prime minister's office has been approved. Congressmans, the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the eighth round have been accepted; I wish them well. The eighth round of talks is complete. Thus, negotiations have been completed with the budget budget budget proposal for 2020 Central Management Budget and the 2nd article on income and financing in the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, which include Article 1 of the 2018 Central Account Law Proposal. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss the provisions of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, respectively, and vote. I will re-read the first article on the expense budget of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2020, and then submit it to your votes. Go ahead and read it. 2020-YEAR-OLD CENTER REPLICATION OF BLOOD Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (1,082.021.197,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations have 82,423,174,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) is a total of 7.623,700,000 Turkish liras for regulator and auditory institutions on the table. The grant is granted. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the ruler, which was previously approved: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm re-reading Article 2 of the income budget. Go ahead and read it. MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 941,944,001.000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 83,626,914,000 Turkish liras, including 12,464,193,000 Turkish dollars, 71,162,721.000 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 7,623,700.000 Turkish liras, totaling 7.488,375,000 Turkish dollars in income in editors and auditory institutions on the table, 135,325,000 Turkish liras, is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table number 5018 (II) is estimated to be $138,350,000 Turkish lira, as shown on the table marked by this Law (F). Now, I'm going to make you read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes: 01 Tax revenues 912,523,630.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 64,428.192,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 11076,712,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 70,115,170.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings $13,600,426,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. $08 Collection 913,863,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Total Budget Profits 1,072,657,993,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Ret and Returns (-) 130,713.992,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Net Budget Profit 941,944,001000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. Mr. Cinisli, you've come here, you've made a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0503par0663	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Oktay, we're witnessing EC PARTY officials talking about their 2023 targets, almost like a slogan. In your speech, you mentioned their 2023 targets. I think you're aware that the high 2023 targets, previously announced, have been reduced to nearly half in the 11th Development Plan. Do you consider the possibility that the figures targeted in the final plan, which were already captured in 2007, 2008, 2011, will occur in 2023? Or is it right for you to still make references today, as if their so-called 2023 targets had never been dropped?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit05spe0500par0665	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0500par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2020. The commission is in place. The difference between the sum of the first part of Article 3-1 (a) of Article 1 (a) and the sum of estimated incomes (a) in the first part of Article 2 (a) is met with clear debt. The first word on the matter belongs to Adana MP Ismail Konçuk. Here you go, Mr. Concubine.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0504par0014	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, at this time of night, I would like to give you some information about Adana. As you all know, there is an organization called TEMSA, which has been operating in Adana, which has been in the automotive sector for fifty-one years. This TEMSA changed hands on June 30, 2018. He was in the Shabbat family, sold to a Swiss-based trust called True Value Capital Partners, founded by Enver and Rukiye Üsver. These TEMSA buses are 100 percent designed by Turkish engineers, 100%. You know, Mr. Fuat Oktay just said that we're going to launch the first car soon. He said, "We're going to release the first car." And so we've actually launched our bus through TEMSA. TEMSA is a company that has made a very serious name for its work in Europe and America. 4,000 buses a year and midibus produce 11,500 vehicles a year and export 80 per cent of what it produces on a single shift, including 7,500 light trucks. Where? France, Germany, Britain, Austria, Italy, Sweden, Lithuania, Lithuania, and Turkey's Republics are among them. In its segment, Europe is included in the first eight chapters, in the first four chapters in the United States. In electrical production, he was technologically ahead of his own counterparts in bus production in TEMSA, Adana, Turkey. Dear lawmakers, just fifteen days ago, the CEO of TEMSA puts out his long goals, 15 days ago, he says: "We'll grow at least five times as big in five years. We plan to grow more than 30 percent in 2020. We are the market leader in Turkey, one of every three buses on the road to Turkey belongs to TEMSA. Ten years from now, we will produce not only in Turkey, but also in America. Now, fifteen days ago, the CEO of TEMSA was saying these things, and fifteen days later, this TEMSA sinks. From what we've been told, no official information has been given, and I've asked Mr Mustafa Varank, our last Industrial Minister, but he hasn't answered a single sentence, so we're learning from the press here that he's been unable to pay for the loan he received from a bank, because the bank has brought it forward. Which bank? What's the point of pulling this loan forward? Is it possible that in the world market, you know, in the first four places in the United States, in Europe, a Turkish institution in the first eight chapters was sunk by a number of hands because of competition? We don't know if there's a con in the name of Adana. We don't know if there's a con. And there's no information on that from our government, and 1,500 people are working. Thousands of people are eating bread from TEMSA in Adana, with the addition of the side industry. In fact, TEMSA is not only the triumph of Adana with its value, it is the triumph of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, I won't say this in case there's a debate, but you're partnering with the House of Simit at 500 million, as the Bank of Agriculture. In order to save a world-class company like TEMSA, I'm wondering what the government is going to do. I specifically gave you this information here that somewhere you might need to use it, so that's the value of all of us, the value of Turkey, and thousands of people are eating bread here. And I also see that the press -- it's the Internet -- doesn't pay as much attention to this TEMSA issue as the Simite Palace, and they don't even report it. Dear MPs, this is a matter of interest to all of us, we don't care who owns it, he's sunk, he's out, it doesn't matter, but I think it should be considered a national mission for us to save TEMSA. I wanted to share this information with you. Dear lawmakers, these days the minimum wage detection commission is in service. Today, TÜİK presented a number to the Commission, offering $1.940 for light labour, $2.086 for middle work, and a minimum fee for heavy labour. According to the TÜİK (TÜİK), the income cost of a hard worker has only increased 5.4 per cent, only 5.4 per cent. Even targeted inflation is 12 percent by the end of 2019. I'm afraid this has become an organization that operates according to TİK directives. So now you know that the figures of this TİKIK are no longer related to the status of citizens, citizens, officers, workers, employees; it's ugly. An organization with such an important operation with such informal numbers... sir, the income cost has increased by 5.4 percent. What kind of attitude is that? Where did you do the math? Where'd you do that? They should be ashamed. So last year, the same TÜİK predicted a 37.4 percent increase. What's changed? The officers there have changed, the authorities have changed. Someone's man has come to the head of the TİKİK, and he's not backing down from revealing the numbers that those people want, TİK, whatever they want, the numbers are coming out. Look, I'm going to give you the last November income index that Turkey's KaMU-SEN announced, and for years the hunger limit of the only working person is $2.625.90, one person's hunger limit, one person's hunger limit, one person's hunger limit, one person living alone. The poverty limit of the only working person -- poverty and poverty are different terms -- is $3,388.32. The average cost of food and housing for a family of four is 2.503 lira 94 cents, a family of four only spends $1.504.65 a month. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we now make minimum wage assessments, almost like bingo every year. There's no such thing as detection, there's got to be a rule, two years, three years, four years, five years, ten years of goals. For example, the minimum income of a family of four is now $7,000. He needs to set a goal, which is the government over the years -- and I'm not saying do it right now this year -- you have to be able to say that in Turkey, I'm going to get minimum wage to the minimum income limit. Is there such a target? No. The only thing you've done, Mr. Fuat Oktay, in his last speech here, is he gave us numbers on the increase of officers and so on. We've increased it by 400 percent. So inflation rate is a zero increase, zero increase. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0505par0024	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0504par0025	So if you work every year paralleling inflation to minimum wage increase, you're doing a zero increase. Then what are the growth numbers for in this country? You're bragging. What does it do with growth numbers? What do you have to do? You've got to give the employees a share of prosperity, including the minimum wage, including the employee, to make sure that they benefit from their growth rates, which obviously means nothing to the citizens, to the nation, if that growth doesn't reflect in the citizens' pockets. I can tell you a lot about it for him, but of course, time is too short. Three years, five years, ten years of planning for him. I can't expect much from Turkey-İSK because trade unionism has lost its ability to act, and Turkey has lost its capacity to act. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, in order to connect the last sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0506par0029	Here, make your promise.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0504par0030	Unionism is important activity, but the trade union function has been eliminated, unfortunately, because the more democracy is the more union struggle. I'm afraid that doesn't exist. So there's no way he's going to get anything, no matter what number TÜRK-İs puts on that commission because he's pro-employee and pro-employee in that minimum wage detection commission. So it's gonna happen. But I beg you: in this country, the sane people, the financiers, sir, the people who follow the monetary policies need to set a goal, or we'll expect the minimum wage to come out of the bingo every year, and we won't be able to increase the welfare of the citizen. I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0506par0033	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Mevlüt Karakaya is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0507par0036	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the 3rd article of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, titled "The Balance," and I'm going to pass on the views of the National Party of Action. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, 1 trillion 95 billion, 461 million, 956 billion, 588 million, 138 billion, 873 million dollars. The GDP rate is 2.9 per cent; the extra interest is $67 million. In fact, the third article that I'm talking about is a provision for the management of the government to meet the net borrowing of 140 billion 77 million and 196 million euros, which is the same thing as the budget grant of 1 trillion, 82 billion,17,000 dollars (I) which is earmarked for public administrations on the table. Dear lawmakers, the budget is essentially bipedal. One of these legs is the funds for public administration, or expenses, and the other is the resources for which these funds will be paid. What is reasonable, what is acceptable, is that these two legs meet each other. If that happens, there won't be a hitch. In this sense, our 2020 budget is linked to an account of $138 billion 873 million. ▪ What we call a budget deficit means that the income can't afford it. What are you going to do, in that case, you'll be in debt. So, with this third article, we'll be authorizing that debt to the central government. Dear friends, of course, budget deficits also make up an important part of public financing deficits, and since the 1970s, a significant portion of public financing deficits have come as budget deficits. The presence of a budget deficit at a certain rate today can also be used as a budget tool, as well as as as as an economic tool, as long as it is manageable. Of course, the amount of this deficit depends on the economic conditions that it is portable and sustainable. Again, revenues and revenues that make up those feet of the budget, the content of the foot of the expense, the layouts, and policies related to them are extremely important. From this point of view, yes, the budget has been evaluated from here, from this platform, from here, from the commissions since the council's agenda for the past few days. It's not a big deal that there's a budget deficit here, as I've just said, the content is important, but there's one thing that's important to be careful about is that they don't turn into structural state. Dear friends, of course, we need to consider some things as we discuss these gaps. Turkey has been spending considerable money on domestic and external security issues for a long time, and some of them are made to fight terrorism. We've been fighting the PKK's terrorist organization for 40 years, so of course they cost a lot of money. The social cost of the job is in a separate place, we give our young people, we give our lives. Of course, it's not possible to have an economic response, it's not possible to measure it with a monetary value, but when we look at it financially, we spend it seriously. It's not just spending here, it's costing, it's the alternative cost of resources that we've lost, it's cost of opportunity. When we look at the alternative and opportunity costs, I'm talking about the same kind of spending that we've done in fighting the terrorist organization and the resources that we can't use, and the alternative and opportunity costs for them -- perhaps we're critical of them today -- a resource that could correspond to Turkey's external debt. Yes, we've had criticisms from here on how to allocate resources to some areas during budget talks, debates, we want more resources, we want to use more resources in the implementation of state functions and functions, in the implementation of economic policies, in incentives, but we also need to see the facts of Turkey, and we need to know. In this sense, these resource consumptions are really troubling Turkey, but Turkey's budget is also strong. Dear friends, on this occasion, I am once again grateful to all of our security members, the soldiers, the police, the rangers in the fight against terror, from the stand of the nation. Dear friends, what actually makes budget laws important is that the nation is all about it. We're deciding something very important. What do we decide? We give the authority to collect about 22.6 per cent of all the goods and services that we will produce in 2020, with its villager, its farmer, its worker, its businessman, and its employee. In one year, we decide to take 22.6 percent of the income that will be earned by the nation, to collect it, and we decide to distribute it again. It's a very important decision from this point of view. And that's why we call it the right of the budget, and that's why the right of the budget is sacred. We call it the right of the budget, Veballi. I hereby wish that the 2020 budget would bring blessings to the Turkish nation and bring blessings. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is, of course, much to be said about the evaluation, but time is limited. I'd like to bring up another subject before my deadline. You know, the 100th anniversary of December 27th, the arrival of the Great Ataturk, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I believe the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be on vacation on December 27th. I, as an Ankara MP and an Ankara boy, wish you the happiness of this 100th year as a member of Ankara, and I would like to bring one thing to your attention on this occasion as Ankara MP. Ankara is a metropolis. Yes, we all actually live here, all the MPs, 600 MPs in Ankara, but we actually don't see Ankara very much. There's another Ankara in Ankara, where I'd like to draw your attention, and Ankara has a country. I say we all take care of our capital, Ankara, with 600 MPs. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0508par0050	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0509par0053	Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's as hard to talk as it is to listen at this time of night. I salute you all. Yes, we're approaching the end of budget talks; we have three days left, and there's no doubt a lot's been said about the budget, but there's no way to think about the budget from politics, from the situation in the country. I'd like to express our opinion on a few issues regarding today's debates. First of all, at the start of the charges against us, against society, against the people, terrorism, terrorism, that's not enough, that's enough, and there's a new addition today; sir, we're blaming the Turkish army. Let's open these up, what is it? For one thing, we have no problem with the people of Turkey, with the people of Turkey, with the society of Turkey. We have no problem with the Turkish people or the Kurdish people or other identities. Our problem with power is that for the sake of the ruling party, for its own future, it is the policy of bringing people against them, to make enemies and to polarize them. Now, in the end, there is so much limitation in hostility to HDP (HDP) that I know so much that today in Parliament we are not enemies to Kurdish people, but to HDP (HDP). That was answered by our Deputy Group Presidents. The enmity with HDP (HDP) is also hostility with those who vote for HDP (HDP) and hostility with millions of people who sympathize with HDP (HDP). I'm saying this without an ID. Let's call it this: with unilateral propaganda, it's being tried to ensure that all citizens of Turkey, and the world, by criminalizing HDP citizens, by being left out, by being excluded -- something new has been added today -- is being held as an enemy. No, we won't let that happen. Turkish people have fear of division, Kurdish people have fear of assimilation. This came up in a lot of research. Why did I come here? We've always told the Turkish people on behalf of our party, and I'll say it again: HDP has no idea of partitioning or anything. We argue not to divide this country, but to democratize this country, but to govern 82 million citizens in this country with an equal and free constitution. We are not a party that advocates the departure of the Kurds from the Turks or Istanbul from Diyarbakır, or any other province from anywhere else. We are the third largest group in the Parliament. Our program, our principles, our charter, our co-chairs' explanations are obvious. We -- our Parliament group -- are now a party that is much more inclusive, which includes differences than any other group, and is acting on the same schedule, on the same principles, and I tell the Turkish people, from Parliament: we want you to take a stance on those who support your fear of division. It's not us, it's the power that divides; it divides in emotion. First of all, it starts with the feeling of disconnection. To this day, they were always boasted that the people were not facing each other. The Turks and Kurds can be very good neighbors, and we do. Taking girls and giving them away... Yeah, that's classic. What's with the girl? What is this judgment? So the relationship between marriage is free will, two people -- Turk, Kurd, Laz, Çerkek, Arab; we don't separate that -- we sit down, they decide to get married, and they get married; that's not how we look at it. We don't always have the fingernail, the girl who's always been taken, sir... so there's this weird mood. The Kurds are also afraid of assimilation, yes; they fear the destruction of their language, culture, identity, and there are hundreds of thousands of examples in our centuries of history. We have come from the Şark Islahat Plan to this day; the Kurdish language is still not free, it is still not free to speak Kurdish; I still cannot speak Kurdish, which is my native language, and I still cannot write on this platform, and my children still cannot study in the native language. Now, it's up to us to overcome these fears, this House. Now, Mr. Vice President has just reacted to the word "Isolated" and said to us, to our group, "How can you say that to the Turkish army?" We don't say that to the Turkish army. We don't have a problem with soldiers. This is the place that drives those soldiers to the front, sends them to war, this is the political will. Let me go to Cerablus, and now we have a new terrorist organization like a light ball: Hafter, let's go to war in Libya. Parliament is making decisions, political power is making new war decisions for its own survival, and the soldiers are leaving. We love soldiers, those soldiers are our sons.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0510par0060	Are they martyrs because you love them?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0509par0061	That's why we defend peace, that's why we oppose war policy. Let no one accuse us of hostility to the Turkish army, soldiers, society, the people; rather, we are the ones who love them more.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0511par0062	We know you well!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0509par0063	What is the concept -- we don't say this, the Turkish Language Foundation says this -- I made a few definitions: "Don't take over a place, don't take over a place temporarily." Another definition: "Don't take over a land, don't take over a place in someone else's hands." Look in 50 different dictionaries. Now, if you go and build a school on behalf of the state of the Republic of Turkey within Syrian borders, build a hospital, start a university... Metin Feyzioğlu could not speed up, he would go there and make a constitution. So? There we build them. You say, "We didn't invade." You say. There is no political envy in this matter. What is the occupation, what is the first thing, what conditions does one country go to the borders of another country, we can argue about it, we're always willing to argue about it. Now, when Foreign Affairs was spoken in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we asked a simple question, we said, "Who is giving this ESO to this ESO, which you call Kuvasimilliya -- whatever it is, a lot of names -- who's giving it to you? Because every day you say, "They're arm-in-arms with our Mehmet. We're not giving." He said, "We're not giving." He said, "We're not giving." He said, "We're not giving." So, who's giving it to you? I'm going to ask you this question again, and I'm going to ask you again, Mr. Vice President, who's paying for these? Because with that SSO gang, with the footage... the Deputy Speaker of Congress has just crossed the line of duty and said: "Let me send you a film. I'll send hundreds of videos to the Deputy Speaker and Parliament. Let's show you how the SSO guys are harassing women, how they're threatening rape, how they're killing children, how they're turning all over the media. Here, let's discuss this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0512par0066	Show me the PKK's!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0509par0067	▪ How can the occupation be the first? It turns into an adjective with plebiscist for display. That's not my text, that's not my statement. If I had time, I could tell you about the United Nations' contracts, the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and what's this in international law. I'll tell you that much about this for tonight. Another matter, Ceylan Forearm. I had a lot to tell you, but I want to move on to the Ceylan forearm. Oh, and I'll tell you, we've been to trial for the murder of Pervin Buldan, our co-Chair in this House. Do you know that some of our MPs in this parliament are the fathers, their brothers, the unsolved murder victims, including our co-Chair? JITEM, 19 defendants JITEM, who murdered 19 people, was acquitted last week at Diyarbakır Courthouse. The AKP said, "We will deal with the 90s." Now the bloody legacy of the 90s is on its back. That's clearing that bloody period. We care so much about this, and nothing happens without facing the past. Ceylan Önkol, a 10-year-old Kurdish child, a Kurdish daughter. Fortunately, Mr. Oktay didn't say terrorist, he was so merciful. I looked at his file again after his speech, talked to his lawyer. He was killed in a field of sight where two outposts and one battalions saw him. Ceylan Önkol. The prosecution's investigation isn't over yet. Mr. Fuat Oktay is not even in the D.A.'s file. There are two allegations: a havan cannon (a second one) took the owner's hand? (a report of an expert expert expert, an independent expert report.)
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0513par0072	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0509par0073	Eli, his feet and his head are intact, just ripped from his wife, and, you know, the D.A. didn't show up at the scene because he didn't show up for security. Mukhtar said: "Bring the body to the police station, to the gendarmes, where I will perform an autopsy." His mother gathered the body and brought it to the police station, where the autopsy was performed. Two days later, the prosecutor was gracious enough to go to the scene of the crime, and that wasn't enough, but the police officer who was investigated as the perpetrator, who was investigated as the suspect. And there's no indication that the PKK was killed by mines or any other organization, even the prosecutor couldn't say that. But here, in the House of the People, every day, as you call it, we've been told in the Shaazi Parliament: "Celelan Önkol was killed by the PKK." And you're saying that we're not Kurdish enemies. You're not enemies of Kurds, but you're enemies of Kurds. None of us can forget the eyes of the 10-year-old son of the Kurds, that Ceylan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0514par0075	The PKK killed tens of thousands of Ceylans.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0509par0076	Please take another look at the eyes of Ceylan Önkol. And ask your conscience: I'll give it to the MP who wants the D.A.'s case. I'll give it to any congressman in the police station's field of view. I can give you all the paperwork on the investigation file made by the Carabinieri, and in that case, I can give you the coroner's report that he was killed with a mortar. How could you deceive the public so much? Is it so difficult to say that we will do our best to offer our condolences to the family of Ceylan Önkol, and to find the perpetrators? And that's what I'm saying, really, under the circumstances, all words lose meaning, so thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0515par0081	Mr. Beştaş, I disagree with your description of my mission. I'm part of the Veteran Assembly, who founded the state, and I'm part of the Turkish government. Today, according to my measure, Operation Peace Fountain is the seal of Turkey's unity.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0509par0083	You can't give an opinion there, you have to be neutral.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0515par0084	Wait a minute... wait a minute... In this parliament, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to deliver the martyrs of the Turkish Armed Forces, to protect Turkey's unity, to stop a Kurdish-Turkish war, I would say that it is not illegal to fight its American and Russian against all the wills at the point of dividing Turkey. And at the point where it's greeted with drums, I'd like to give it to you, you can't even listen to it, you can't even follow it. So you can't draw the boundaries of our field, the Turkish state has drawn the will of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0516par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0517par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0515par0090	Here you go, Mr. Özlem Rich.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0516par0093	Mr. President, thank you for your explanation.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0518par0094	There's no need for you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0516par0095	Of course, it's late, but you said it at the beginning of your speech, it's hard to listen, it's hard to talk. You said it is, but it's absolutely necessary to answer. Now, here, of course, we have to say it one more time. You're saying that war policy is required for the survival of power. It's completely counterintuitive to reason, to logic. It's always because such operations are necessary in Turkey, because it's essential, and because it is, when you go under it, you take responsibility for so many people, financially, spiritually, you perform these operations under a very important responsibility. This is done only for Turkey's back, not for the AK PARTY, not for the power, but for Turkey's back. That's why, here, in this House, all the political parties, except you, voted for it, voted for it because they saw Turkey's beka.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0519par0097	Not all parties, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0516par0098	But in all the talks you've made here, we've expressed it before, and for some reason, you're not on Turkey's borders, but on another matter outside Turkey's borders.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0519par0099	Not all parties.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0520par0100	You don't understand, he already said, except you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0516par0101	Except you. I already said it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0519par0102	It's not like that, it says three parties no.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0521par0103	Except you, you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0519par0104	Other than you, the group.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0522par0105	No, not you, not you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0519par0106	The Ponzi scheme...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0522par0107	Four parties with a band...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0519par0108	Labour says no.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0522par0109	I know exactly what I'm saying, the four political parties in the group voted. If anyone has any objections, they'll speak for themselves. Please speak for yourself. So many children have died before, and the PKK has killed a lot of people without saying, "kids," and continues to kill.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0523par0111	Oh, come on! Don't talk about these memorizations.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0522par0112	You carry the funerals of those who kill, you take them away. After that, we're looking around, you're doing ceremonies, you're doing ceremonies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0524par0115	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0522par0116	Let me tell you, as a mother, losing a child's life is an important matter. I want this file, Ms. Coral; give it to me, please, and I want to read it, and I mean it sincerely, we'll follow it. And so far, as our group, for example, with our women MPs -- we don't say it in public -- we share all these cases amongst ourselves, we follow them. We follow up on the issue of a child, we want to know what the truth is, and we want to do what we need to do with that child. But while you're doing that, you're not showing any of the sensitivity that you're showing here for other things. You don't show the kidnapped children, you don't show them to our raped girls in the mountains.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0525par0117	You didn't show it to Yasin Bör.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0522par0118	And when we say that, you go back to being anti-Kurdish... Where's the Kurdish hostility, my friends? You're just bringing the whole thing to the end of the day like a seal on Kurdish hostility, unfortunately, you're bringing it here. Well, I'll tell you, you're your own enemy, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0526par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0527par0121	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0526par0122	Ms. Coral will speak for the group.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0527par0123	What does he want to say, Mr. Beştaş?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0528par0124	Don't tease me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0526par0125	I want it for the group, but I'm giving it to our friend.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0527par0126	I give you my word on your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0529par0128	And if you could tell me where the PKK is getting its funding...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0530par0129	It stems from Kurdish denial.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0531par0130	I'm sorry, what? If you use the podium, we can't hear it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0532par0131	You hear what's coming your way.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0533par0132	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0534par0134	Mr. President, there's no way I'm going into a polemic with you as Acting Speaker. I merely reminded him of the Civil Code and of the Constitution. As you sit in the seat, he should rule neutrally from our party as well. It's not personal, it's a question of legal legislation. The other is: Mr. Rich has announced, stop showing us as enemies to Turkey, Turkey, its people, its people.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0535par0136	You do it, you do it to us.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0534par0137	Because it doesn't win you. Do not mock the people's minds about this any more. We're in this country, no matter who he is, whether he's on the mountain, whether he's on the ridge, whether he's in the army, whether he's a cop, or whoever he is...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0535par0138	We don't mean on the mountain.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0534par0139	...we bear the pain of every dying child, every human, every breathing person.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0536par0140	You don't carry it at all. Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0534par0141	I'm afraid it's not very elegant of you to answer me here as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0537par0143	Are you talking about the pain of Yasin Böre?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0536par0144	You don't carry any. Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0538par0145	Be it in the mountain, be it in the army... Is this the same thing, for God's sake, is this the same thing?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0539par0146	You've made your point, obviously.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0540par0147	No, I can't explain it, there's been a lot of teasing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0538par0148	They're the same thing. For you, mountain or soldier, it's no different.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0539par0149	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0540par0150	I mean, I'm the representative of a government... who has removed the name of Ceylan Önkol... from the park.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0538par0151	What a mess! Don't do politics on a child. Don't play politics over a child's funeral.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0540par0152	You removed the name of a 10-year-old boy from the park. You removed the name of an international writer like Mehmed Long from the park.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0541par0153	What do you mean? You guys always do politics through funerals.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0538par0154	You can't keep a soldier on the mountain in this House. In this House, you can't keep a soldier from the mountain!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0542par0155	What the hell is this, Deputy Director of the Group?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0543par0156	We're the defenders of everyone who's been raped and we're the one who's dead, but look at you right now, please look in the mirror!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0544par0157	You go look in the mirror, you go look in the mirror! Shut the fuck up! You shut up! Idiot!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0545par0158	We reject it completely. We refuse. This can't be happening.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0543par0159	There's nothing wrong with refusing. You have hundreds of TVs, people don't believe you anymore. You go to the end, you're finished, it's your last struggle. It's no use...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0546par0161	This is a sign of guilt.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0547par0162	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0548par0165	You owe it to the PKK!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0549par0166	That's why you're sitting there.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0550par0167	Miss Özlem, what did you say in your speech? You can't take the children to the mountain. You know what it means?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0551par0168	Why is it obvious, mother of the martyr, why is it so obvious? Why don't you tell me about his baby, too?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0550par0169	Bring in the transcripts, read what you're saying. Who took who to the mountain?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0552par0170	Your friend said it on the mountain... said it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0553par0171	The father I'm sitting next to was killed when he was eight years old.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0554par0172	You told us about Ceylan for ten minutes!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0553par0173	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0555par0174	Your friend told me that on the mountain, the soldier...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0553par0175	I'm telling you, he's sitting next to me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0556par0176	He's sitting across from you, tell him that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0553par0177	They killed his father when he was 8. Aren't you ashamed?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0556par0178	You're shameless!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0557par0179	There's a lot of hatred in your statements.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0558par0180	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0559par0181	They've always taken that inspiration from you, Mayor, and you did it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0558par0186	Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0560par0187	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0561par0188	Don't blame us like that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0562par0189	You're throwing up a grudge.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0563par0190	You just accused me for ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0564par0191	What are you guys talking about?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0565par0192	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0566par0193	Today, December 17th, 25th, announced by the MPP, bribes and...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0567par0194	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0565par0195	Who are you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0568par0196	I am who you are!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0565par0197	Who are you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0569par0198	Who are you! What's going on...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0570par0199	Congressmans, let's hear it. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0571par0201	There are slaves here!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0572par0202	We say the same thing: there's a slave! You're giving a ten-minute recital here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0573par0203	Who are you yelling at?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0572par0204	There's a martyr's mother.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0573par0205	And here are the deputies who lost their father.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0572par0206	Thanks. Did we say anything to him? Who are you?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0574par0207	You're telling me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0575par0208	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0576par0209	Mr. President, shall we end this?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0577par0210	No more using the martyrs!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0578par0211	I didn't tell him who you are!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0577par0212	Don't use it, don't use it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0578par0213	I don't need your permission!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0579par0214	He's a congressman, and I'm a congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0578par0215	I'll use it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0579par0216	If he picks on me, I'll pick on him.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0578par0217	I'm gonna look you in the eye and I'm gonna use it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0579par0218	I don't believe this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0580par0219	And we're gonna look you in the eye and tell you the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0578par0220	Let's go!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0580par0221	Look him in the eye!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0581par0222	You're exasperating hatred, so your eyes are full of anger and hatred.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0580par0223	Anger and hatred suit you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0582par0224	Mr. Veli, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0225	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the December 17th-25th Bribery and Anti-Corruption Week, announced by the MPP, and I am celebrating this day. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As many Omos as there are, and as many Tursils as there are, and as many Persils as there are, and as many cleaning materials as there are, I will take them, and I will pour them into Halic, and I will wash the AKP there not three times, but 40 times. These words are one of the words that remain in mind at that time.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0584par0229	That Toursil isn't enough for you, it's not enough! That ain't enough for you, Tursil!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0230	Dear lawmakers saw on December 17th that the shoebox wasn't just a shoebox, that the garment case wasn't just a garment case, it wasn't just used to carry it, it wasn't just chocolate. Now we've learned that when it's called the shoe box, it comes to corruption, theft, and green dollars. Just one day after December 17th, we saw the prime minister, who was involved in the operation, all of us, send a vehicle to the person in Pennsylvania who was supposed to have done the operation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's get to the budget. If we had to come up with a name for this year's budget, I think the appropriate name would be the budget for meatloaf. Seventeen years ago, there were a limited number of raw meatballs, where we came from, the most open business in the city is raw meat shops. Grocery, deli, or rather, the small shop closes its doors, while raw meat shops open on every street, every street, every neighborhood.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0585par0232	The best food is raw meatloaf.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0233	Turkey has the most raw meatball shops in all cities.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0585par0234	We recommend raw meatloaf.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0235	Why? Because what the poor feed, the poor, the minimum wage, the four percent raise, the cheapest of all, is raw meatballs, the burritos, $3. You don't know the taste of raw meatloaf and the price because you're used to eating in palaces. We thank the raw meat loafers here for not starving people.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0586par0237	Come on, I'll yogurt you. Come on.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0238	Everyone knows it except you, except for the few of you, but you can't see the world from the splendour and the pleasure. Dear friends, who's opening the raw meatloaf shop? AKP lawmakers or your children don't open, we know that, while your children are serving in private offices, private institutions, teachers who can't appoint raw meat shops, engineers who can't be appointed, and college graduates who can't be appointed. On the one hand, the esteemed MP, those who feed themselves with a raw meatloaf burrito for 3 TL, those who have no manners on the other hand, who make a living in a mansion and wear a single stone ring to a 40-day baby. On the one hand, poor people who eat raw meatballs in the morning, noon, evening, and on the other hand, Jell-O paid hundreds of thousands of lira. On the one hand, the poor citizen who was ashamed to give away the $1.5 TL in his pocket when asked for the market money; on the other hand, the shameless advisors of the palace, who were paid from five places. On the one hand, the three-course bagel account holders, on the other hand, those who owe $500 million to the Simite Palace. On one hand, poor children who fell and died in construction because they couldn't be assigned; on the other hand, they're torpedoed without going to work. On one hand, their father, the martyrs, who have been impounded, on the other hand, drank 309 million of the 15th of July martyrs. Dear friends, in fact, we can see Turkey's picture today from the Daily Journal, which our friends have also expressed. It's in the Daily newspaper -- maybe you're not following, you're following the media -- the people of the separate ship. Take a look at the people of the separate ship and look and everyone will be ashamed of this view. Dear friends, the year 2019 certainly came to mind with vanity and waste. What made you think of that? Because on March 31st and June 23rd, some of the facts began to come to the attention of the public, some of the scum. Dear friends, so many residential vehicles, so many wastes, it doesn't fit in anything. In particular, there's a former mayor who's been trolling social media, and I'm ashamed of what he's done. This troll holds a masseuse from the municipal vault for $3,800 a month to pinch himself.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0587par0243	What a dirty language! Is he fit for Congress?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0244	Look, he's got a masseuse for $3,800 a month to pinch himself. The same troll has three jeeps.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0587par0245	How dirty... does it fit the position of the House? But that's not gonna happen! Please...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0246	You should be ashamed, but you're talking to me. And this trustee, the trustee, the trustees you're defending, they've been practicing, which I'm ashamed of. Behind the city halls, behind the trustees' office rooms, what have you got?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0587par0248	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0583par0249	There's a bath, there's a sauna...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0588par0252	Wait a minute... wait a minute, Mr. Veli Agha...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0589par0253	Mr. President, let the preacher use a clean language, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0588par0254	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Group Vice Presidents, let's put our MPs in their seats.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0590par0256	His blood pressure's out, he's gone, there's no deputy leader of the group.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit06spe0588par0257	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0588par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2020. The commission is in place. The third article was held on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in the speech of Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0591par0007	Mr. President, there are trustees -- and I've stayed here -- and there are municipalities where trustees run their rooms, where you can look at them and you can't talk; saunas, baths, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Again, we saw that the same trustees received $600,000 in gifts to ministers, government officials. Examples can be extended, but I want to tell you about the two institutions that I care about very much, which I want to point out to you, dear friends: one is the Anadolu Agency, the other is the TRT. Seventeen years ago, those who came to run the state like a company managed the government like a company, squandered all the republic's financial gains, and destroyed their spiritual gains constantly. Now, the state is not like the company -- I'm going to tell you about the Anadolu Agency and the TRT. -- it's being run like a criminal organization. Dear friends corrupt power, absolute power corrupts it. It's an important promise. Some of the government's institutions are run like a criminal organization. Look, I'm going to give you a few examples: The Anadolu Agency, which Ataturk made so that people would hear the voice of the people and Turkey to hear the voice of the world, became a party's manipulation tool. They've explained the wrong results in many elections, but I want to give you two examples: one of the results of the April 16, 2017 referendum. All polling companies showed that they were going head-to-head, but look at the results of that evening, dear friends, with 36.6 per cent to 63.4 per cent, the Anadolu Agency announced the results, the same Anadolu Agency friends, and the result ended at 51% to 49 per cent; Anadolu Agency managers were not embarrassed, never bored. Why did they do that? And the servants of the ark opened the way for him, that he might be despondent, and that he might go home, and that he might be able to steal freely. The result, which began with 64 per cent, was completed with 51 per cent. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Then, on the evening of the March 31st elections, the world watched a world-class disgrace live, dear friends. On the evening of March 31st, the Anadolu Agency first announced that Ankara's Özhaseki (Kurta Özhaseki) was 73.24 per cent; Mr. Bululi Yıldırım was 78.57 per cent; Antalya put your candidate at 55.97 per cent. These numbers were stopped for half an hour when the National Alliance's votes increased by this vote.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0592par0013	What crates? How many crates were opened?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0591par0014	The Anadolu Agency updated the data until 23.23, when the re-entry began. The difference between Yıldırım and Imamoglu's vote fell to 3,500. At 23.20, the Anadolu Agency signed a disgrace, a disgrace that had not been seen in our history.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0593par0016	You're here...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0594par0017	Sit down, that's enough!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0595par0018	Guys, wait a minute. Mr. Veli, just a second.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0596par0020	He cut the data for 13 hours, didn't enter the data. At 23.30, Bali Yıldırım announced that he had won the Istanbul elections. Then, at one o'clock in the night...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0597par0022	Don't let him slander you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0596par0023	Dear friends, please listen. Dear friends, look, at 23.23, the Anadolu Agency has committed an unprecedented disgrace in its history, cut data for thirteen hours, exited at 23.30. Seven minutes later, Binali Yıldırım said he had won the election. At one o'clock at night, Mr. Erdoğan said that his people voted for CHP in the capital city, but voted for us in the counties. On the second day, on April 1st, 11th, the president of the YSK made a statement, saying: "The Anadolu Agency is not my client, it is not my client, it is not my data." The Anadolu Agency said that Ekrem Imamoğlu had won in Istanbul in despair, which had not entered the data for thirteen hours. (HPP) The world has seen and seen Turkey; it has turned into an institution in Istanbul elections, not an agency, but like a gang, that changes the box. I'd like to thank the people who support the Istanbul alliance, and the parties who make sure that election is taken. Dear friends, the Anadolu Agency has been led like a criminal organization, not enough, and there's an institution, a TRT, run like a criminal organization. For a long time, TRT has signed something that only defames the opposition by acting as a spokesman for power, dear friends: Look, friends, as a result of the people's tax, the TRT, published it as a result of the direction given to it, as if Osman Ocalan had laid it down in Erbil, as if he had sought it with a red bulletin, but could not find it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0598par0027	You know terrorists best!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0599par0028	Mr. Veli, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0596par0029	I am, Mr. President. I'm not saying "criminal organization" for nothing. Look, Osman Ocalan, who was not found by the MIT, and the police, found him, as if he had put his hand on Erbil, and handed him a mic. I know you're ashamed of it today, too. Again, the same TRT... the same dear friends were sent to the highest-security prison of Turkey, where their lawyers and family had not met for years to receive the Istanbul elections, where an academic was sent by the power and the letter received from it was announced to all Turkey on live air; the goal, Istanbul elections. Dear friends, in the March 31st and June 23rd elections, the ministers of the state, the mayors, even the President, insulted both their competitors and the other candidates, accused them of terrorism. In the name of Imamoglu, they were called "Pontus" (Pontus). Southeast politicians were called terrorists. The terms "beka" were as if "terrorism" were flying in the air. In the election of Istanbul, if you do not vote for us, you will vote for Sisi. If the CHP wins the election in Ankara, the 6-7-year-old terrorists...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0600par0034	Mr. President, when he was just victimized, if you'd just give me one more minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0601par0036	You gave me your message, Mr. Veli, okay. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0600par0038	Mr. President, but we have a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0601par0039	We did, we did. What the hell aren't you telling me?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0041	I'm finishing it, Mr. President. I'm finishing it right now.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0601par0042	Here, let's give it another minute.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0043	If Imamoglu receives the election in Istanbul, the terrorists will take part in the ISPARK. None of this has happened.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0603par0044	Tell me about your guests in the House.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0045	I'd like to put an end to my words by saying one more thing. There was an incident that...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0603par0046	Tell me about your hospitality in the House, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0047	I'm telling you, the people who run this administration like a gang...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0603par0048	Tell me about who you hosted at the council.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0049	There was an incident in the heart of Ankara, on April 21st, where there was an attempt to lynch and kill the leader of a party.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0603par0050	Tell me about your hospitality in the House. Tell me about your guests.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0051	It was the Home Secretary who provoked it. And it was your words that provoked it. Osman the thief is still out there, he's been assigned to the president, and he's in prison for those who like him on Facebook. Down with your justice, down with your power.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0603par0053	Who are your guests in the House?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0054	Don't troll, troll; go out there and talk.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0603par0055	Tell them they're hosting it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0602par0056	Go out there and talk, and I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0604par0057	The yellers do this... every screaming, rioting, noise, rioting... it's like a half hour away. Don't shout, brother, don't shout at each other. Why are you gassing up half an hour? For God's sake! [[A round of applause, laughter from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Ramadan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0605par0062	Mr. President, dear friends, the speaker continues to stretch the House at every turn. We're actually used to his rude and hurtful words. I'll just say that they talked about who supported the Cumhur Alliance, and the mountain staff knows who supported them, and the nation knows.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0606par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0604par0065	Mr. Ozgur, Mr. Erkan wanted a word. Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0607par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. These talks we've been conducting all morning have been speculating about the death of our son, Ceylan Önkol. It is certain that the late Ceylan Önkol was killed in an accident, but with abuse from here, the Turkish Armed Forces, security members are wanted to be blamed and hundreds of children have lost their lives, hundreds of people have been injured, with mines set up by the terrorist organization, with IIPOs, with hand-made explosives. The PKK terrorist group killed hundreds of children, the baby, along with its mother. Therefore, a title of this terrorist organization's ringleader is the baby killer, which is expressed by our entire nation as a baby killer. Tens of thousands of our people have been killed by the attacks of this terrorist organization, many fires have been extinguished, and mothers are after the children the terrorist organization has kidnapped. When trapped, no one should try to make the Kurds a shield, protect the terrorist organization and its policies. Why do hundreds of thousands of Kurds, Turkmen, Arab, Ezidi, Suryani, from Syria, northern Iraq, come and take refuge in Turkey, not in other countries, Syria, or the south of Iraq? Because these brothers, our relatives, view Turkey as the safest shelter and port even as their own country. It says: "My children can't study in their native language." Now, no one in Turkey is educated in their mother tongue, which is what they demand. This country has an official language, both in the Constitution, and beyond that, in this land of at least a thousand years, Turkish has become a common language.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0608par0073	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0607par0074	We can't ignore that. No one in the Republic of Turkey is educated by his mother's language. I've seen education. He doesn't tell the truth, he doesn't know these concepts. So please don't let anyone confuse the concept of mother linguine with the concept of ▪ana linguist. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0608par0077	Mr. Free, take back your say-so, let's move on. Veli Agha...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0609par0079	Mr. President, it's your right.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0608par0084	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, it's Mr. Bursa MP Emin Yavuz Survel. Here you go, Mr. Filter.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0610par0087	Mr. Emin has given up too, Mr. President, he doesn't.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0608par0089	Did I tell you, Amin? Is that what I said?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0611par0090	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0608par0091	I'm sorry. Emine Haným, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0611par0093	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 3rd Amendment of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I am honored to serve today in the Parliament of the nation, which began at the gates of the university, as the most divine of all creations in the lines of the Ottoman capital, the pupil of our civilization, the city of the foundation, the city of the saints, the city of culture and history, Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar. That's why I'm saying that the AK PARTY has closed the compass between the state and the nation. The ancient civilization has rebuilt the bond that was intended to be torn from our values, allowing the nation to reunite, even with the word of the mind that looks down on the nation, and even with the word, it has allowed the nation a little bit of awareness of its values. This budget is a budget prepared with the understanding that the state exists for the nation, so that the government can live. This budget is the nation's budget. From education to health, from industry to trade, from tourism to sports, we called new Turkey new dreams, we made dreams, we made our dreams come true. We said that the road is civilization, that the divided road, which is 6,100 kilometers in our country, is 26,764 kilometers today, 6,000 kilometers in seventy-nine years, 20,000 kilometers in 18 years. One of the only bridges in the world is the Osmangazi Bridge, the Bursa-Izmir highway. The construction of our 18 road projects, which cost us $1.5 billion, continues. We said it was like a breath of health in a state jihad, and we gave our Lord 68 health facilities, 27, to be a hospital. Our city hospital with 1,355 beds is in the service of our citizen. We're bringing 85 billion in investments into our Fellowships with protocols covering youth centers with our Ministry of Youth and Sports. In our Naim Süleymanoglu Sports Complex, we will raise athletes who will proudly represent our country. Our scholarship is from cities that contribute to the country's economy with its industry. We have 154 RD and design centers, 17 organised industrial areas. Our exports exceeded the $15 billion threshold. In the field of high technology, we are now in it. More than 50 quadrillion investments from education to health, transportation to industry to our Bursa. With the support of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, we are implementing projects that fit the history and identity of our Bursa. It's on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Our tourism ministry's 2023 targets are 75 million tourists. I hope that our tourist city of Burma will make an important contribution, especially with the four seasons of Uludağ tourism, to achieve this goal. Don't come to Turkey, don't invest. Despite calls, our country is the 6th largest tourist attraction in the world in 2018. In the Human Development Index, we have reached the category of Very High Human Development. According to his national income, we are the most humanitarian nation in the world. We have a goal of becoming a stronger Turkey in the world, in the economy and in politics, in the move of domestic and national technology. Today, as yesterday, we will cross obstacles with our people. The 367 crisis, the party closure case, the April 27th e-mutation, the Trips, the December 17th-25 coup, the July 15th treason attempt. I don't know any more than the power of our nation, the help of God, the conquest of our nation. We have crossed all these barriers under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who said, "I don't know any more than the power of the people." (EC PARTY Applause) From now on, we will continue to walk along this blessed path with our nation, tearing up the scripts that are meant to be written, disrupting the games. So once again, we say that the fate of the AK PARTY is the fate of Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish the 2020 budget to be good for our country, for our nation. I invite all our MPs to see the beauty of Bursa. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0612par0107	Thank you, Mr. Emine Yavuz, our deputy for the scholarship. I'm sorry about earlier, Ms. Emine. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] The person who asked for a personal word on the matter is Siirt MP Osman Ören. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0613par0113	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 3 of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly with the exception of one person. [[WHO is the voice of the AK PARTY?]] Everyone already knows that, so if there was someone who could talk, I'd answer; he'd talk out of his mouth, and I'd say to myself, "I don't know." (AK PARTY) He talks blankly, he doesn't have a word. Dear lawmakers, the budgets of EC PARTY governments are investment and service budgets. As with every budget, the quality of this budget's service budget is also prominent. In 2020, we also value the innovative and productive investments of the private sector, and we seek resources for investments. In this scope, I'd like to present a few data on economic growth: I would like to point out that Turkey has produced a strong growth from previous years, despite its domestic and external difficulties over the past few years, under the influence of financial measures and support. With this growth performance, I'd like to stress the fact that our country is the fastest growing country among the G20 countries. In the third quarter of 2019, Turkey's economy grew by 0.9 per cent. The successful and cautious financial policies of the EC PARTY administration also reduced interest costs in the budget. In 2002, only $16 of each $100 tax revenue went to interest payments, while in 2019, only $16 went to interest payments. This is very important because with the remaining numbers, export growth, national revenue increase, and on behalf of our country, there have been very important investments and services for our nation. Dear lawmakers, when we came to power, we promised to raise our country above four basic pillars: education, health, justice and safety. It's possible to see our priority in the budget. The largest share of the budget distribution is reserved for our education, health and social policies. Since the first time we came to power in 2002, we see that this share of education has increased by 12 times, and we spend 21 percent of tax revenues on education. I'd like to point out the number of classrooms, the number of teachers, the number of universities, and the number of university students associated with it. The fact that the number of students with 1,650,000 in 2002 has reached 7 million 740,000 today is also crucial. In the new era, we will consolidate our energy to the rise of quality in education, and we care very much about the establishment of an educational system that will satisfy our children's hearts along with their minds. Dear lawmakers, we've also increased health care expenses for the growth of healthy generations. In 2019, we earmark 156.9 billion dollars for health care. In 2002, the budget for health expenditures of 11.3 per cent is raised to 16.3 per cent in 2019. I'd like to draw attention to reforms in this area. I'd like to say that the healthcare system has completely changed, so there's no one left in our country outside of the General Health Insurance umbrella, so now we have ambulances, planes, helicopters, and a new breakthrough in healthcare.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0614par0121	Congressman, I'm asking if the biryan kebab is coming, Büryan kebab.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0613par0122	Mr. President, I don't want to finish this. I'll answer to your office. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, last night, our Bitlis Regents offered us a biryan, thank you very much, but we are traditionally served after the morning prayer. We don't want you to be able to...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0615par0124	We don't want to.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0613par0125	You're not coming anyway.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0616par0126	We don't want you to have your bouquet!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0613par0127	We invite you all to the land of peanuts, the land of honey, the land of zivzik pomegranates, honor and honor. (AK PARTY) You are prepared to welcome you with your natural beauty, Kurdish, Arab, Turkish. This budget is already a good budget. AK PARTY governments have always done good deeds, and this budget is a good budget. I salute you all with respect and love. I bid you good night.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0617par0132	Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Özyavuz has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0618par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute my Şanlıurfalı countrymen, the great Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Members of parliament, workers taken by the Immigration Administration for the use of housing, security and general services of refugees from Syria, have been temporarily sent to various provinces by the closure of some camps. Given the family structure, salary, and general rights of these brothers sent from Urbana, it is impossible for them to live in a different province. The immigration authorities sent to other counties must be sent to Urbana, and their family integrity must be protected. By studying this subject, my brothers and sisters from Urbania must be prevented from being victimized. The customs gates in our districts of Akçakale and Ceylanınar are very important for border trade after the Peace Fountain Operation to ensure the safety of our country's southern border. The point is that the work needed to open the customs gates quickly and quickly be completed will be a huge gain for my city of Turkmen, my Şanliurfa, and for my country. There must be absolutely no discrimination among our citizens who will trade borders, and all companies who meet the criteria for exports and imports should be allowed. Members of parliament, according to the Law on Agriculture Reform on Land Editing Areas 3083, a million hectares of land must be massed each year. As a result of the work done in this context, it has been determined that 20 million per cent of the land is still not used in the name of the border between villages or inter-country borders. This causes 17 billion annual losses in Turkey's economy. These lands must be massed immediately, and they must be able to be farmed from the ground up. The amount of diesel used by our farmers in agriculture is approximately 4.5 billion liters. In contrast, support for the mazota used in agriculture corresponds to 5 per cent of the price paid for mazota. In addition, about 18 per cent of what our farmers pay for fertilizer is paid back in support. Therefore, the mazotta OTV and VAT should also be dropped in fertilizer and the support given to our farmers must be increased. My constituency was distributed in Şanlıurfa, to some 3,000 families in Harran, Akchakale, and Ceylanınar. These citizens were executed because they couldn't pay the land payments. This will prevent new configuration victims for land debts. It should also be authorized to use loans by removing the evil from the land. Due to the energy used in agricultural irrigation, the restructuring of the accumulated electricity debt and regulation of the installments must be drawn to reasonable levels that our farmers can afford. Another important issue is that the travel agencies of Istanbul, the TÜRSAB document, the Transport Ministry D2 authorization and the travel route issued from İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. Since the Metropolitan Municipality does not release this document, the vehicles are connected and tourists are left in the middle of the road. This practice undermines tourism and victimizes agencies. In this regard, the demands of the TURSAB Association must be met and this problem will be resolved. Members of the law, it would be a holiday gift to the Urbans to make a Urban Liberation documentary with the TRT opportunities to mark the 100th anniversary of the salvation of Şanlıurfa. The fulfillment of the relevant demand is what the Sanlıurfas expect. Furthermore, it would be a great service to humanity and to our country to establish a special headquarters for the introduction of Gobeklitepe, the first settlement in the world and known as the zero point in human history. As lawmakers who know the region and its ethnic structure best, we must show the world that Operation Peace Fountain will continue and that we will continue to stand by the oppressed by clearing out of the region of the YPG and PKK elements that forced thousands of Turkishmen, Kurds and Arab brothers to emigrate. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2020 budget to bring blessings to our country and our nation, and to our nation and to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0619par0147	Now, I'm starting the question-answer process. I'll give you five minutes for questions, five minutes for answers. "Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0620par0149	I'm here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0621par0150	It's not her, it's Honorary. It's Beautiful. Look, this is Mustafa Adil.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0622par0151	I'm here. I'm here, and I'm not.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0623par0152	Mustafa Adil...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0622par0153	Don't shake it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0624par0154	What did I do, shake it off, slander it?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0625par0155	In 2017-2018, the military governor bought tons of nuts through YICOB, tons of them, confirmed. There's talk of millions of TLs, before...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0624par0156	Aren't you pretty, for God's sake!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0625par0157	Mr. President, I can't read.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0626par0158	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0625par0159	Mr. President, I can't read.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0626par0160	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0627par0161	I rocked it, so what are you gonna do?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0628par0162	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0629par0163	I've already submitted a question motion to the Home Office, and there's no answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0627par0164	What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0628par0165	What are you gonna do? I'm not doing anything.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0630par0166	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0627par0167	We did it for charity, don't you see?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0630par0168	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0631par0170	In 2017-2018, the military governor buys tons of nuts through YICOB. I've already made a motion to the Ministry of Interior, no answer, I've asked CIMER 3 times, I've asked for a bill, I can't pay it. He said, "I can't give it." He said, "I can't." I said, "I can't." He said, "I can't." He said, "I can't." He said, "I can't. I can't give it for the people." He said, "I can't." Mr. Oktay, I didn't get any answers from these, so I'm asking you now: since when is the amount and the amount of nuts the Army Governor eats under state secrets? Is the government's nuts covered by the grant? That's what I'm asking. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0630par0172	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0632par0173	Mr. Oktay, the farmer's debt, which has been gangrene for years, has destroyed the farmer because there is no configuration this year. In the 280th verse of the Bakara sura, the president of the Polish Agriculture Chamber calls to you, and the Qur'an commands you: "If the borrowers cannot pay the debts, you must not press them; even if the lender is available, he must donate this to you." For this reason, do you plan to restructure our farmers' debts? Because you've forgiven the borrowers, the Simite Palace, and a lot of other people, but when it comes to the farmer, you're playing three monkeys. Again, I have a question about my territory, Tekirdağ. Unfortunately, Operation Dawn ended at the end of eight years in the Ergene Hazva Protection Action Plan, launched by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in the Ergene River. Now, we see that the Department of Agriculture will run the process from now on. You've eaten $3 billion, $340 million, and with a budget of 5 billion, I wonder if you can clear the Ergene River.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0630par0175	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0633par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Oktay, with the new government system, has been linked to the President of the President of the President of the Editor-in-Chief of the Press-Journal Information Directorate. Following this change, trade organisations from the Press Card Commission have been removed and this Commission, which should be making a neutral assessment, is completely under the control of political will. Also, there have been a lot of media reports that the presidency is working as a censorship agency. Although all conditions are met, how many people have been denied their press card application by the Chairman of Communications, and what is the reason for their refusal?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0630par0178	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0634par0179	How many people are working, how many government vehicles are there? How much does the presidential palace cost a day and a month? After the president's summer palace, winter palace, his flying palace, he now has his floating palace. We've learned that he's taken over by restoring the Yakamoz yacht in the Navy. Mr. Oktay, how much does this floating palace cost? How much money has been spent to renovate this yacht? Those who can't find $50 million for modernization of the Tank Palet Factory, who sell tributes to our national and domestic factories, we see that they get 51 percent of the shares of the Simite Palace. Mr. Oktay, how much were these shares of the Simite Palace paid? A letter was submitted to the United Nations Council of Human Rights, signed by 22 countries last July, to end human rights violations against the Uygur Turks in the Sincan region of China. Why wasn't Turkey among the signatories of the letter? Why are you silent about the drama of Uygur Turks, especially their arbitrary arrests?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0635par0182	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0636par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Oktay, the highest recruitment and personnel activity in your 17 years of power has been chaired by the Ministry of Religious Affairs. According to this, from 2003 to today, what is the number of staff appointed to be staffed and under contract through the posting of all units of the Ministry of Religious Affairs? Again, from 2003 to today, what are the number of personnel who have been transferred to other institutions from Religion to today?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0635par0185	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0637par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Congress of the United States, the Turkish Stream Project, which carries Russian natural gas to Europe, has just been adopted as part of the bill for sanctioning sanctions on the S-400 (s) and F-35 (s). The arms embargo for the Greek Cypriot administration is being lifted, according to this bill. However, all bans are being laid out for the handover of the F-35 (F-35) to Turkey. Regarding this, Mr. Erdogan has recently said that we can shut down bases in the Orbsikic, İncirlik, based on the U.S. attitude. Have we bluffed about this, or will Turkey, in a serious sense, decide whether or not to shut down bases related to Orbspheric and Incirlik, after the U.S. decision made in Congress in this way? Is the calendar clear or clear about this, and we're looking forward to it, and the public is waiting, or is it just talk? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0638par0190	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0639par0191	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Oktay, I'd like to ask you twice about something I applied for four or five months ago with a written question motion that I didn't get an answer from. For years, why doesn't the President of Religious Affairs remember the name of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our country, founder of our republic, in Friday's borders? Will you have any work in that direction? Why doesn't the President of the Diyanet Works, who has decided to pray for Mursi in absentia, who has declared mourning for the King of Saudis, mention the name of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Dianet in our country? I'm gonna have to ask you to work on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0640par0195	Now, to answer the questions, I give the word to the Commission. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0641par0197	Mr. President, the answers will be answered by our Vice President, Mr. Fuat Oktay. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0642par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the third article states that the difference between the public administration allocated funds as part of the general budget and the overall budget's revenue forecast will be met with clear debt. In our budget, of course, we see that both in 2020 and in previous years, according to Maastricht Criterers, the public debt stocks of member states are expected to meet those criteria starting in 2004, and in 2020 it is expected to be 33.2%. Again, I would like to say once again that we are far below the Maastricht Criters. I want to make another point: Again, about 2020, I want to say that we will not give up on fiscal discipline in 2020, just as we did before. Again, when we look at Maastricht Criters, I would like to say that the budget deficit, considered 3 per cent from 2005, was met and continued to be met in all the years other than 2009 and 2010, when the global crisis took place. We, of course, had a little bit of preparation there, thinking that the questions would be in the open framework between income and expense, but since it's for general purposes again, I'd like to continue answering general-purpose questions, if I may. Again, our first orator had a comment about the construction of hospitals in Syria, the Firat Shield, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain, the building of schools, and so on about occupation and illustration. This is also an indication of how far away our friends -- with all due respect -- are from human activity. Turkey does such activities not only in that region, but all over the world. From Somalia to Iraq to the Balkans, you can see our activities in many places.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0643par0204	He was doing it, Wasn't he?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0644par0205	I wish you could do it in East Turkistan.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0643par0206	Before, he was doing GER, what congregation is doing it now?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0645par0207	Turkey has no eyes for the land of any country. As we have already stated, he is currently serving 4 million Syrian refugees, asylum seekers. When we look at our health care in our public hospitals in Turkey, the number of patients in need of surgery and the number of clinics, the numbers are quite high. So we try to take these services directly to the local community. These are human services, and they have no other purpose besides that. The Syrian National Army is not a gang; it is the Syrians who are involved in a joint operation with the Turkish Armed Forces, Arabs, Turks, Kurds. As for the Anadolu Agency and the TRT, they are not a criminal organization; they are the eyes of this nation; they are the institutions of the nation, not of power. Again, there was a question about myself, and I think I've already answered it, but let me answer it one more time: as Vice President of the United States, as well as as acting President of the Parliament... that's out of the question. With the new system, with the presidential government system -- we've expressed it over and over -- if you think with the new system approved by parliament, approved by the nation, the separation of forces, the separation of men...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0646par0212	You haven't answered any questions, Mr. Oktay!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0647par0213	Talks on Article 3 have been completed. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0648par0215	Mr. President, there was Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0647par0216	Yes, Mr. Kaboglu...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0649par0217	Mr. Oktay, the concept of the government corresponds with the Council of Ministers as the body responsible for the legislation and the governing body in hand, while the party sharing the responsibility of establishing general politics with the prime minister and expressing full solidarity. According to Article 104, the President alone has the authority to execute, so we have neither cabinet nor government, and we have a complete monocracy. The country's overall policy is also determined by policy boards. In contrast, ministers are more office and executive authorities than political authorities. But the ministers here have made more political speeches, instead of the Constitution, they've sent them to a person, they've made the individual-party-state integration almost concrete here. How do you explain this contradiction, Mr. Oktay, as Vice President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0647par0220	Here you go, Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0649par0221	I couldn't complete it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0647par0222	But it's understood. I mean, most of the talk is... Let's make a brief assessment, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0650par0224	I'd like to repeat our assessment, the assessment we've done before. When you think about it within the framework of the new government system, when you think about it under the approval of the nation, when you're at peace with the nation, you won't have a problem. There is a president, and by the power given by the President to the nation, the President has appointed his cabinet and his ministers, including the Vice President; the nation and Parliament have given it to him. So both the Vice President and the ministers have a lot of the rights that you now have. In addition, they have the right to express their opinions as a political figure, and to be a member of any political party. So the ministers -- including the Vice President -- could be a member of a political party, founder, manager. And yet he makes a political statement, uses his political will. We've already explained before that politics is to determine the basis for the state's activities as purpose, method and content, and to determine the basis for regulation and implementation, and the Vice President and Ministers contribute to their determination at the highest level. It is also the nature of the matter to make a statement on a high-level contribution.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0647par0225	Thank you. Decisions relating to Budget Order and Application MADDE 4- (1) The rules of this Law have been shown below: a) The distribution of grants given by article 1 [[A]] B) revenues to continue to collect according to legislation related to public administrations under central administration [[B]] C) Basic provisions based on the income of public administrations under central administration [[C]] ) Baseds on the use and expenditure of some funds [[E]] D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) estimates that the management and institutions, which are included in the ruler (III), will be used by the means of cash. [[F]] e) daily and compensation in accordance with Article 10/2/1954 and Article 6245 [[H]] f) Financial limits in the budget law according to various laws and decrees [[I]] g) In addition classes, conferences and overwork fees and the sums of other fees [[K]] đ) Boarding fees from students of the school boards ruled by the Ministry of National Education, dated 11/8/ 1982 and under Article 3 of the National Education Ministry's Boarding Boarding Law 2698 [[M]] H) The purchase value of animals, dated 7/6/1939, and under National Defense Responsibility Act 3634, will be taken through national defense. [[He']] I) Under Law 3634, the average purchases of motor vehicles via the national defense contract and the daily rent costs [[P]] i) The type of transports available to public administrations in Tables (II) and (III) are available in the year's course of service, the type of vehicles available to them, and the price of purchases of vehicles that are subject to car 5/1/1961 and subsidiaries that are subject to Car Law 237 during the year. [[T]] j) Home service monthlys bound by laws and decrees [[V]] Mr. Free, do you have a request?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0651par0258	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0647par0259	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0651par0262	Very briefly, I have to write down a matter like Mr. Vice President, even if it comes down to it. Some texts are mere, in effect, but they're not legitimate. An extraordinary referendum, which was held in a state of emergency in many world countries, had passed by a public vote, which had been as small a difference before, before and after as much injustice, injustice and inequality as the world, announced to all of Turkey yesterday that 25 per cent of those who said yes on that day would regret their decision today and if the party president's clause went away. Like Mr. Oktay, I wanted to put it out there. Some texts are like today's Constitution, but not legitimate. The debate of legitimacy will follow you to a new referendum. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0652par0266	Okay. Mr. Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0269	Mr. President, Mr. Special has already said all this, and he's made it very clear before.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0270	Mr. Oktay said the same thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0271	But he has to answer because you asked him.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0272	He said, "Let me say it again."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0273	I mean, you may have trouble understanding it, but we don't, so, you said, once again...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0274	If I said that, I'd be offended. You'd say that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0275	No, but why are you telling me?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0276	If I say that, you go into the room, you come in, you get angry.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0277	It's nothing like that. We don't do that at all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0278	I'm not disrespecting you like that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0655par0279	Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0280	But please, I mean... why are you saying this again and again at this time of night?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0281	You'd be offended if I said that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0282	And then you use illegal sentences to the Constitution, and you say, "No choice in the state of emergency, no referendum." Where does it say no?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0283	It's illegal in seven countries around the world.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0284	No, sir. How many countries are there in the world? There are hundreds of countries. I want to remind you of our choices in Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0285	Mexico... starting with Mexico, the one you just described.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0653par0286	We choose according to our Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. It's a legal choice, passed through a referendum. That's all. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0654par0288	Meridir is not legitimate.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0656par0293	The first word on the matter is on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0657par0296	Mr. President, I pledge you poverty, unemployment, debt, waste, interest helix, and patience, not by one man and integrity, but by the new system of addiction. I have made a pledge to you on the 4th article of the income budget. How much longer do we have to tighten our belts and the Veteran Assembly? I respectfully greet our citizens who are watching us on the screen at this hour of the night. We enter 2020 by planning a $138.9 billion budget deficit. When all the government promises is debt, it's up to the citizen. May God give our nation the ease to pay. According to the New Economy Programme 2020, the interest costs in the budget were 74 billion euros in the previous budget, with an optimistic estimate of $138.9 billion. Even if the target happens, the interest has increased by about two times as much as the previous budget, and has been 87.7%. The first thing I notice is that the interest costs and the budget deficit are the same amount, so if we didn't have interest at a glance, our budget wouldn't be full, the budget wouldn't be open. I repeat: the budget deficit target is $138.9 billion, and the interest is $138.9 billion. May God give our nation the ease to pay. On our way to 2020, a cluster of national revenues has dropped from $12,112 per person to $8,811 per person in the last five years, according to TİK data. From $12,112 to $8,811, our figure of poverty is $3,201 a year; multiply today's currency by 5.88 (x) is $18.820 per year; divide by 12 (x) and we make $1,570 less per person per month than five years ago. So each of our citizens became poor for $1,570 a month. And then there's the famous TİK data. He's always optimistic, always optimistic, like Polyanna, the head of the TÜİK. When we're out on the street, all the labels say we're high. He says, "He's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, There's Damping, it says dumping. Economist environments are described as being in financial trouble, washing machines, television, telephone, car ownership; paying unexpected expenses; paying a week's vacation away from home, rent, housing loans, debt payments; eating a meal involving meat, fish, chicken, and the need for warming of the house in two days is not economically met. Those who are unable to meet at least 4 percent of these substances are counted in severe lack of material wealth. If it were up to TÜİK, the lack of money fell to 26.5 per cent in 2017, at 28.7 per cent in 2018. Never mind a week's vacation, just one day's vacation; forget about eating meat every two days; even the smell of it is a dream for a citizen, but in the first nine months of 2019, there are 3.5 million citizens who can't pay the electricity bill. The number of counters processed in natural gas is 710,000 -- data from months that have not yet started using natural gas -- 710,000 households were introduced at the natural gas meter in winter. Gentlemen, what poverty rate are you talking about, what inflation decline? To taxes, who gets the tax? According to our Constitution, the tax is an obligation, but the lawmaker took a fair stand for the tax assignment imposed on the citizen and said, "What does the government do? He gets the most taxes from at least the winner. From who? It's a pay cut. First, he's trying to cut his income tax before he gets his salary, and then every time he gets his salary, he gets a tax on EVT, VAT, and my knowledge. Those who see a basic need for diamonds and nullify their taxes, those who make their living off bagels, take 3 children's advice and get 18 percent of diapers and baby food. Speaking of bagels, the farm boy who can't pay his debt for three months is a bagel maker to save the court's lawyer -- probably because he's got a name -- who's sending a job to the farmer's tractor, the farmer's cow. The tax amount, which was dropped from tax collection in 2006, rose to 24 per cent in 2018, when the total tax revenues were 6 per cent. Thus, in 12 years, a privileged group was created, free from paying taxes by law. Take the tax from the citizen Mehmet, the citizen Cengiz, and forgive the tax debt of Mehmet Cengiz, the mother of the citizen! The citizen sees the state as a father, but unfortunately, the head of our state has become a self-inflicted stepfather to some. An orphan has the right to collect money. With the money collected, the budget is created and spent. Dear lawmakers, it's easy to spend on a purse, which means it's easier to eat out of a government pouch. Precious lawmakers, I pay very much attention to the words of the people of the AK PARTI authority from time to time, such as Bulent Arinc. The subject of the entity is not small enough to fit into the building of a party; it is a matter of interest to everyone. We don't have to take taxes from you if we take the waste, but we have a bad report card on waste, says 2015. There's another person at another conference who's particularly emphasised on waste, but if I give you the name of the person who said it here, you'll pick on it right away, and let's just say a lady who's paying thousands of dollars for her purse says: as Muslims, we should be able to see the matter of waste beyond personal consumption. We are only responsible for carrying our own fountain, our light bulb, not our table, but our caliph on earth. If we have a daily practice, then we don't know our field masters, so we haven't been able to teach our children to agree. You have to save money. Isn't that what you're supposed to say? Now, if we said those words, you would object, but one of them was your brother, one was your sister-in-law, and one was your wife's. I also told them about their talks at their meetings. You're not looking at what's said, you're looking at who's saying it. When one of you says it, you think it's reasonable, you applaud it, and when the opposition says it, you make a fuss. Look, I don't have those words, I'd expect you to stand behind them and applaud. Our holy book, the 31st verse of the Koran of Purgatory, says: "Eat and drink, but do not waste; for God does not love the wasteful. Anyway, it is between you and God. Dear MPs, let's go back to our citizens. We have a citizen, he gets a salary of $2,500 a month, his annual income is $30,000. This citizen spends 40,000 liras a year and gives 10,000 liras a year. First, not everyone is so lucky with what's left of their parents -- they start selling it, just like you sold the country, the country, the country's 90-year-old earnings. That's not enough, he's starting to get loans from banks, the bank wants a mortgage for his credit, he wants a sponsor, he wants to secure himself, just like you borrowed money from the outside. It's not enough after a while, the citizen consumes his mother's father's property, borrows money from the bank, but can't pay it. Let's not make a move on my door; let's not embarrass the neighbor." This time, he borrows money from a loan shark, knowing that his interest is high, just as you borrowed more than the world average from loan sharks in England. Whether you're a citizen or a state, the price of debt is not just money. When the debt exceeds the thousand, you can eat baklava pies. Even if we have a few words like that, you don't eat baklava pies when you owe money to loan sharks. Forget the financial cost, you'll be tied up, and you'll have to let the loan sharks do all kinds of stunts, which, unfortunately, is what our country is going down with. Dear MPs, I'd also like to say a few words about how the world is greater than the 5.....than the loan sharks. I call it "beautiful," but here last week a member of the AK PARTY declared it a manifesto. According to the Turkish Language Foundation dictionary, the manifesto is a clear expression of the political beliefs and purposes of a social movement. Whoever says that will have credibility; first, he will stand by what he says. He who says so will stand by his actions, his practices, his words, and will stand by his words for the rest of his life, so that he may become a manifesto. A manifesto of thought determines both history and the position of the man who speaks. When he's in a bad mood, that's when the big word gets watery. The world is greater than five. You say. Who are these five? America, Russia, England, China, France. Inside, the world is greater than five. But until we go to America, where we are threatened by Twitter, where the grooms are given diplomacy, give it to the priest, take it from the priest! We have given it to the priest, and we have taken it. The end of the paid F-35 is still uncertain. What happened? That's one less. What is it? The world is bigger than four. Do you think we can use the S-400s from Russia against Syria? That's one less. What is it? The world is bigger than three.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0658par0311	Here, pack it up, come down from three.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0657par0312	Our relationship with His Majesty's country, England, is to mortgage the country's gold and borrow it at the highest interest. What is it? The world is bigger than two. Is there two left? What can I tell you about our relations with China? The torture they inflicted on our relatives in East Turkistan is obvious. Do you have a voice? It's not coming off. Do you have one left? What is it? The world is bigger than 1. We've got one France left. For now, we've just become thrown into Macron, and we'll see when you start making concessions to France. Your manifesto collapsed. Yeah, the world's bigger than five, but it's not your world. You say it with the tip of your tongue, and when we say it, you're taken. Don't get on top of people just because people give you authority. Don't try to be one man. God is all-mighty, and do not associate others with Him in His Divinity. God willing, you will associate others with Him in His Divinity. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0658par0315	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0659par0318	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the 4th Amendment of the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Precious lawmakers include rulers, incentives, agricultural support, industrial incentives, teachers and policemen who want 3600, additional lecture problems, tax cuts, transport education and problems of the village schools. Dear lawmakers, our country's farmland is 22.6 million hectares. The thing our farmers complain about most in agriculture is the increase in input prices raising the cost of production. Agricultural support with $22 billion out of the budget would be very useful to the sector. In addition, interest rates should be reduced to less than 10 per cent in the restructuring of Agriculture Bank debts. Again, agricultural loans must lower interest rates in pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, seeds, and so on. The employment problems of agriculture, forest, food engineers and veterinarians must be resolved. Food safety is a healthy and perfect production goal. We lost two of our babies last week because of unhealthy food packaging. I wish you patience for the painful families of our young. Dear MPs, I'd like to address the problems of agriculture in my hometown of Afyonkarahisar. You know, the Afyonkarahisar Sugar Factory has been privatized. Since the day it was privatized, the system has not been in place. The sugar factory is below its capacity to stockpile beets. The cantars didn't open at the appointed time, depending on that, the beets went up in flames. It's a victim of our farmers. Hashish is a product that makes its producer more profitable than other agricultural products. Farmers have had problems this year because of the Farmer's Recording System Document in the poppy crop. The changes to be made must be conveyed to the farmer during the previous October, and our farmers must know what to do during the next October. Afyonkarahisar is an important agricultural area. Animalism, dairy products, eggs, red and white meat supply, manda milk and manda cream are one of the leading cities in Turkey's production. Agricultural support for our Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar) must be implemented as soon as necessary to establish a facility. Dear lawmakers, our Turkish police force, which has been devoted day and night to the peace and order of our country, awaits 3,600 additional indicators for the future of our children. Our teachers' additional tuition must be arranged, and our unappointed teachers must be dealt with. Our minimum waged citizens and all trade groups must go to improve their tax cuts. Dear lawmakers, terror is the most important issue our country needs to get off its agenda in order to achieve peace, happiness, economic and social prosperity. Starting on August 15, 1984, when he performed his first armed act, the PKK, which worked as an ocean subcontract of imperialism, suffered serious financial losses to our country, other than the lives that we had lost as traitors, veterans, and people whom we had harmed. The money spent to fight the PKK's terrorist organization is over $1 trillion. With the money we spent on terrorism, we could invest hundreds of dollars all over our country, implement national industry, agricultural movements, and domestic defence industry projects, provide employment, raise our nation's economic and social well-being to much higher levels. We are also dealing with one of the lowest and lowest terrorist organizations in history, such as Å. In the attempted treasonous coup attempt on July 15th, we called this structure, taken by the taxes of our nation, our Parliament, our Special Ops Office, which dropped bombs on us, which killed 251 of our lives, and was tasked with infiltrating all capillaries of the state. With the spirit of the Cumhur Alliance, the Turkish state fights both inside and abroad with the PKK and the DEASH. After July 15th, we reminded all the world countries of who we were, both on the table and on the field, thanks to our government's national stances and policies. No plan without the will of the Republic of Turkey can succeed in the Middle East, in the Eastern Mediterranean, or in North Africa. As a state, we are dealing with political parties that welcome the terrorist from Iran, international Turkish and Islamic enemies who give Nobel prizes to those who praise murderers, mayors who receive orders from Kandil, mayors who are charged with treason, journalists who embrace the United States and European countries who accept the so-called Armenian genocide, and the United States Senate who hold out a statement against this Senate resolution as they issue a statement against its decision, and the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and the media who serve international services with their taxes. Those who accuse us of genocide should look at their own history first. What they forget is that this land has its own people. By God's permission, this nation has the power and power to overcome any challenge. The history of this nation is not 50, 100 years old, like other nations, but we have been here for a thousand years, and we will live in this land forever, by the permission of the Lord of God. The National Movement Party has always been a supporter of both the Turkish nation, state and security forces in all matters concerned with national identity, national entity, brotherhood and domestic peace, and in the fight against terrorism. The politics of the National Movement Party are not about fighting and confusion, but about serving brotherhood and hugs. Common sense, patience, calmness, and reason are essential to our cause, but everyone must know that we will never allow any bloody project, any treacherous plan to disrupt our unity and unity. Our wise Turkish leader, our President, State Gardener, has expressed that Turkey is a sisterly flower garden. We'll never let them plant the leaves and dry the flowers. The Turkish nation is one and together. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the budget of 2020 would lead to good deeds for our government and our nation, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0660par0332	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0661par0335	Mr. President, thank you. I can't get into the system here, so it's broken, it's not working, so I can't get in. So when the MHP speaker counted the entire circle of betrayal, he actually gave a speech, including the HDP, where they were supposed to place themselves. The reason for their presence here is that they don't try to make themselves through the HDP; that they support their seats, their powers; that they actually support this power; that the MHP and the AKP are trying to maintain their own existence by attacking and criminalizing HDP at every moment in every field. I thank you by returning it all to them.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0662par0338	Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0663par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it is impossible for us to accept the statement of Mr. Surhan, where they should have settled themselves. If they're suffering from criminalization, the public's expectations are clear, and it's clear what they're focusing on. Dear friends, Mr. President, it is imperative, for once today, that a political action be criminalized by those who have not condemned the attacks, the murders, the massacres of the PKK terror organization, once and for all. Now, as long as this bond doesn't break, they're going to have this problem, and that's their only problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0664par0344	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0665par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. Every time the government and the MPP are in a jam, the only argument they're going to use is this, this is the only option you've got. In everything, you say terror, terror, terror.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0666par0348	What else do we say?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0665par0349	What else do you have to say? And say "peace." Say 'Democracy'. Call me Justice.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0667par0350	Curse terror and let it be over.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0665par0351	Say "The Constitution" where you put your feet under your feet. Tell him it's jurisdictional independence. ▪ Call it humanity. Say 'Vicdan'. Call me Justice. There's a lot.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0668par0352	And you say, "PKK is terror."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0667par0353	Curse the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and be done with it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0665par0354	You don't know it's true, you're right, because it's gone away from you. You don't know what that means. What needs to be done... once again, we'll keep telling you over and over again: this country needs peace, needs democracy, needs justice, needs democratic solutions to the Kurdish problem. Let's get out of here as long as we want, and we'll have to make sure of that eventually. I've just seen some of the people who've been running things from the past to the present, around here. Democracy is the only cure; peace is the only way out. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0669par0356	Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0670par0358	Now, it's not a healthy approach to treat a terror problem as if there were no terrorist attacks without any contact. From time to time, we listen to the speakers on the stand, sir, that terror is not a cause, but a consequence. After entering the matter, you are already indirectly authorizing terrorism, which means you support terrorism and acts of terrorism. (APPLAUSE) So the reason for this problem they're talking about is considered terrorism. To this day, their attitude has always been that way. So not just in terms of parties, but in public, some of the structures, the focus, are expressed in this way. However, without a dream, without alakin, without an escort, terror must be cursed, and all sorts of ideas and political ties must be cut off. Some even say: "Lord, put distance between you and terrorism. " What is the distance between terrorism and terrorism? That's zero. No political movement, no legal political movement, can be two inches, 10 centimeters, 50 meters, 100 meters, no distance; it must refuse; it must refuse, but without it, without it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0669par0360	Okay, thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ankara MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir is here.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0671par0367	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are raising order, poverty and exploitation in the country today. Inflation data at terrible levels, despite all manipulations. Unemployment is growing, not employment opportunities. It is no longer possible to live up to human dignity as the value of labor is lower every day. Turkey-İsti says that in November, the hunger limit of a 4-person household increased to $2.102 lira and the poverty limit to $6,849. According to the DİSK United METAL-HIS Union report, minimum-paid, with the money he received in November, he can only spare $18 a day for food, friends, $18 a day. According to this, a minimum wage can spare $4.5 per person for three meals in a four-man household, and that amount is 1.5 lira per meal. If we tell the account that you love so much, it's only one bagel for one person all day. Poverty continues to find the minimum wage in not only the table, but also in unhealthy housing, and the minimum wage is 410 lira. After the election, a four-person household's electricity bill rose from 123 liras to 163 liras, and we learn through budget talks that in the first nine months of 2019 there are 3 million 365,784 subscribers who can't pay their electricity debt, and we all know that the number will increase after the raises, as well as 710,364 subscribers who can't pay their natural gas debt. You are not wrong, but one quarter of the citizens cannot meet the warmness of the house in this land on this winter's day. Is there a boy at home who's an education? Even if he goes to public school, especially in big cities, transportation, stationery costs, tuition fees, at best 500 lira a month. The results of privatisation in education have reached such high levels that citizens are trying to borrow money and get their children to study in private school, but today, a private school chain owned by a conglomerate who also works in the construction and real estate industry is coming to a standstill due to the economic crisis of the Nature College. It affects 80,000 students and their families, as well as thousands of people who work at this company. This government also tells citizens: "Despite unhealthy conditions, do not even think about getting sick. For even the simplest examination, you have to pay a minimum of $6. Adding the drug, additional examinations, and a genuine health care service, this amount goes up to $40 a time. If that's the painting, then social life, of course, doesn't exist. Even on public day, a movie ticket can't go to a minimum wage movie or a vacation. That's the truth about millions of people in this country. We can express this truth in a different way. As income and wealth's inequality continue to rise, the gap between the classes is growing and growing between the rich and the poor. Look, I don't have an extra purpose like populism or public appeal, and I never have. But if there's such a thing as rights in life, I'd like to point out from this perspective that the president's salary is 81,250 lira, not counting pensions or grants, nothing is paid for. Our wages are $23,530, friends. The salary offered by the employer's union for the workers is $2.262 lira, which only offers $2.262, if the state's contribution increases from $100 to $200. Again, we live in a country where the hunger limit of a household is $2.102 and the poverty limit is $6,849. With what logic, with what right, can you actually speak these numbers, and also negotiate the minimum wage, labor and civil servants' raises of $10, $100? I'll tell you how you do it: the relationship between the rich and the poor is a blind relationship, friends, where the eyes close. Therefore, this budget, made by rich people and privileged ones, never sees problems, problems, existing inequality, and injustices. Poverty and inequality are not just an abstract concept, but a structural and radical problem. But we're talking about a gap in gender relations as well as inequality. For example, 80% of those who apply for welfare are women. This is not because women can admit poverty more easily, but because women have the same responsibility to deal with poverty as women do with the burden of sustaining life. Moreover, in families and marriages, women remain financially and socially dependent on men - husbands, fathers, and brothers. They have to live off a small amount of money from a man, and it's not just in poor families, it's in the middle of a man or a woman who has a better income, and a lot of women who are married can have very similar experiences. I mean, even if a family, or a man, is well off, a woman can be poor, and that's as much economic violence as it is. So women are also the poor of the poor. But, yes, by the way, there are no poor people in our country. For example, today's news: the Leadership Programme for Young Muslim Women, organised by the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services and attended by 50 people, spent a total of $1,163,000. Emine Erdogan and their daughter, Esmeralda Colonelrak and Sumeyye Erdogan Bayraktar attended the programme. And now there's a new concept in his service which he's trying to protect. Who are you taking care of, my friends? Why would he be in their care? Whose money, what do you really care about, and why are these people everywhere? I mean, really, isn't it a little rude to put your own relatives into politics, into power, or rather, into power, and walk across seven neighborhoods with them? For example, how is this different from the invitations of Esma Assad? Or when you look at it in Korea, the Kim Song, the Kim Jong family, you know, I don't know, it's not just like Niyazov, who changed the name of months to January and named his mother after April, or like Aliyev, who named his wife Vice President, the world is full of these things, and I don't know if people really want to pay for his rights, not his labor; it's the rights, they don't want to be under anyone's protection, and other than that, you can say, yes, it's the international meeting. So are you going to do it for Christian women, or are you going to do it for other women? I mean, it's really not acceptable. If we want to live in an egalitarian, social justice-free country, we have to reverse the existing system.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0672par0376	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0671par0377	We need to turn this unfair system, which collects most of the tax through indirect taxes, makes the rich richer, the poor poor poor poor poor, upside down, and what we need today is a revolutionary intervention based on this sense of rights that make inequality permanent. And as a final sentence, there is no war without class character, friends. My respects.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0673par0381	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0674par0384	Mr. President, I personally attended the program where 50 young Muslim girls, 50 of whom Mr. Kerestecioğlu was talking about, were invited from different geographys, from Muslim countries, and I was one of the speakers. And to be honest, I'm very happy. Because these young Muslim girls from America, from South America, Afghanistan, from many different parts of the world -- and it's not the first time they're done -- they're getting to know each other, they're getting to know each other, they're getting to know each other. They had very good questions about their territory, their problems, and the future of the world. It was an extremely useful program. These kinds of programs are done in a lot of places. For example -- I see it every year -- America invites a lot of students from Turkey, the People's Republic of China invites students from different parts of the world. Can it be done for Christians, for people of different religions? Of course it can be done. This is one of the organizations. Surely different species can be done in different ways. Looking at them like that, it's really a little absurd just to evaluate them over the amount that they've been spent on. As for the matter of Himaye (Himaye), I see in the General Assembly today more and more strange implications than ever before, to the ladies and their daughters, their very precious daughters, both publicly and publicly. If you're the president's wife of a country -- very naturally -- you're leading an environmental organization, you know, natural nutrition, conservation of the environment, that's something that you pioneer in, of course, you do that already. What is meant by protection is that there's a sense of ownership, which means that the sensitivity of this issue actually means that it's being owned by all of Turkey, and it doesn't help any of us to reduce, devalue things like this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0675par0387	What did you do with 50 people, 50 people?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0674par0388	One sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0676par0389	Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0674par0390	I'm just saying it my way. I mean, I find it a little weird to read everything over money here. We're talking about 50 young girls from different geography of the world who have stayed here for nine days; they're very well educated; they're all young girls who have been chosen from the countries where they come from. In fact, I find it absurd to compare the work of the lady's wife in Syria with the wife of Esed. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0677par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0678par0393	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0677par0395	I don't think there's anything to be so light on, because when certain people are given privileges and certain people can be found in a family place, it doesn't really apply to our political understanding, so I really think that I don't put my family anywhere, but other people can do this, and it's our right to criticize it. Other than that, it's not just this, but also -- you get the book of Cigdem Toker, the journalist -- you read the book -- there's something called the 21/b tenders, really, that's also what these tenders are doing. It's being given to a company called Global Tourism, and it's been done without negotiation, without anything, in the past years. I do comparisons, of course, because they usually happen in non-democracy countries, run by the family company.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0678par0401	Army MP Seyit Torun on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0679par0404	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 4 of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the grand jury, and if anyone is still watching the screens, I bid them good night. Seventeen years ago, when the AKP came to power, it expressed its opposition to custody and claimed it would remove all custody, but what we came up with 17 years later was a single man's administration. We've seen this custody, in fact, in municipalities, as in all areas. So that all the powers have actually started to gather in one center, and the rate is increasing every day. The mayors are now forced to resign, not by will, but by one will, sometimes by crying, sometimes by being intimidated, sometimes by the will taken from the people, sometimes by being appointed trustees; it is not possible to accept that. If we want to improve democracy, if we want to strengthen democracy, these are not the right practices. We refer to the municipalities as important institutions where the cradle of democracy and the needs of the people are met. But during the AK PARTY, unfortunately, this turned out to be the opposite. Look, the number of municipalities, which were 3,228 in the 2000s, dropped to 1,397 today, more than half. Why are these municipalities closed? The Metropolitan Law and local municipalities have been closed. The reason for the closure of the municipalities in the region is that they cannot provide adequate service, borrow money, or use their resources correctly. So if you're going to shut down a city because it's in debt, you're going to have to close most of your own municipalities. That understanding is not right. And the neighborhoods that you've closed down, unfortunately, are now the neighborhood, and there's been an incredible migration. There were some 53 municipalities in my own province; they were closed; they became neighborhoods; cities of 5,000 people in the past have now fallen to 1,500 populations. There, at least, the mayors could be there for him on a citizen's good day, on a bad day, and sometimes his car could be used as a bride's cart, sometimes even to carry a patient. But now he's all alone, and unfortunately, the migration from the village to the city has also sped up, and the migration from the countryside to the city has accelerated. Dear friends, of course, they were also ripped out of rural production. While they were producing in the countryside today, they became consumers in large cities and are now struggling to live in the suburbs of that city. Look, we called it "democracy" in the developed countries today, there are even 800-population municipalities, and when the financial and administrative structures are properly established around here, the service is best, most efficient. Today, there are 16,000 municipalities in Germany, which have about the same facial measurement as us, and more than half of those municipalities are below 1,000 populations. There are 36,571 municipalities in France, and more than 28,000 municipalities are under a thousand. Can we say that these do not receive services, that they cannot serve citizens in those municipalities? When each of us goes, we witness the service there. Of course, people from the village, from rural to city are struggling to exist in the city, while they also have to lose a lot of value, and unfortunately, those people who have been cut off from production have to be in the city's tent of selling tomatoes and cucumbers in the cold. And in cities, it really has to consume everything that it consumes at greater costs, much greater costs. Dear friends, by gathering the authority of the municipalities at the center, there has been a serious extortion of authority, and the decisions taken from the centre have unfortunately imposed a serious judgment on the will of the citizen. Sometimes it's given to certain ministries, sometimes to certain institutions, and eventually the will of a citizen has always been ignored. Unfortunately, especially in the municipalities we received from the EC PARTI, those debts that were not paid in the past, those debts that were not followed by any action in the past, now that they are from CHP, they have all been launched into executions, such as rain and tax and insurance debt. From the chair of office to the vehicle. So if these debts are debts from the past, why wasn't this practice done in the past, and why wasn't any action done on those municipalities? The SGK and tax debt are already being punished at an interest rate reaching 24 per cent today. I mean, even a loan shark doesn't have that much interest, and even if you buy it from a loan shark, you don't pay that much interest. Unfortunately, not only are our municipalities involved in these debts, but all municipalities are in serious trouble. And to our municipalities, unfortunately, all the public banks closed their doors, wiped out loans completely, and then when our mayors get credit abroad, it's as if they're being betrayed, as if they're being perceived as being intrinsically in debt. Due to past misdeeds, our mayors are using their savings and resources to serve properly. Our municipalities are trying to pay off millions of debts spent on plastic sculptures, dinosaurs, unopened water wells. These productions, which are being made with public taxes, are unfortunately now out of commission and unusable. And there's a constant agenda on the local government law. We have also heard that it will be discussed after New Year's. We've discussed this with the vice presidents of the EC PARTY and the vice presidents of the CHP, and we've tried to contact some of our friends, and I've also called our Vice President. What is being done about these studies? We have expressed that we need to resolve this through mutual dialogue, that no matter what political party it belongs to, all of our municipalities are trying to bring services to our citizens. 30 major city mayors gathered at the palace. Many expressions were used there, many promises were made. So far, it's just starting a WhatsApp group, and getting some opinion from some mayors, our three mayors. When I called our Vice President, he said he'd meet as soon as possible, but we don't know what that is. When will he be invited and our mayors' views be taken? The Metropolitan Law now has serious problems. Our municipalities in the district of Major City have big problems. There are problems that need to be solved both administrative and financial. It's been in practice for about six years, but it seems that with this structure, municipalities will not be able to recover from debt, that there are serious problems with the services of municipalities... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I have a moment?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0680par0418	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0679par0419	So, basically, the law of new municipalities has to be done with common sense. As it turns out, problems are getting bigger and bigger in urban areas. The cities became big, but their problems began to grow. I live in my own science. Look, a lot of things are still looking for solutions. The citizen has been calling us all the time, stating that there have been serious problems with ways related and with many services that the municipality should have done, that it has failed, that it cannot be reached, that it has been resolved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0680par0422	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0679par0423	Thank you. Therefore, we must surely act with common sense in preparing the Metropolitan Law. Local authorities are the units that serve the citizens directly. We're going to have to try to figure this out over politics. It's not the problem of the local government, it's the problem of the nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0681par0427	İstanbul MP Halis Dalkilic on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0430	My dear President, the esteemed MPs, yes, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on Article 4 of the 2020-Year Center Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute your delegation, our beloved nation, our esteemed deputies. Before we begin my words, I would like to say that we are here to make the law, but the members of our heroic army, our soldiers, our police, our security forces, are sacrificing their lives to protect our homeland. We express our gratitude to our brothers, our greetings to them from the High Council, and to our brothers and sisters who walk to testify for this cause, we ask God's mercy and his condolences to their relatives. Mr. President, from 2002 to 2002, Turkey has taken huge steps to make our nation smile, raise its bread, grow its brotherhood, with huge investments in education, health, social policies, in many areas. Of course, we faced many political and economic obstacles as we took these steps. We faced the most bloody coup attempt in our history and then financial attacks by terrorist organizations targeting Turkey. Everything is for Turkey, everything is for our nation, and we have been working tirelessly and tirelessly, and with the support of our nation, we have eliminated these attacks. Those waiting for Turkey to kneel, to give up have not remained idle until now, nor will we remain idle, nor will we. Dear MPs, as a nation, we, the sons of this nation, which has emerged from the heart of the 100-year-old republic, a thousand-year-old state tradition, will continue to be the hopes and prayers of all Muslims, not just of our nation, but of our unique institutions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2002, about $86 of each 100 lira tax collected in order to give an example of the stable position of the AK PARTI governments and staffs in the budget discipline for 17 years, it is estimated that at this point we are talking about the 2020 budget, 17 percent of the 100 lira will be earmarked for interest spending. R&amp;amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt; R&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt; R&amp;gt; Hopefully, our nation will meet with an RD spending over $40 billion in the 2020 budget. It must be known that every step we take is for the bright future of our country, for the peace and prosperity of our nation. In this regard, under the leadership of our leader, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we will continue to walk with confidence in their 2023, 2053, 2071 targets. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately we see that global forces have turned our ancient geography into a pool of blood for their own benefit and carried the whole fight to our geography. In the eastern Mediterranean, recently, states that have moved around ignoring Turkey have planned to turn Mediterranean into Greek and Greek lakes. In the unity and unity of our great nation, I thank all parties for our agreement with Libya, which we have given the best answer to, except for the HDP, I thank you very much on behalf of our nation. Of course, Turkey is not the old Turkey. Turkey is no longer a Turkey that monitors decisions made in the region and agrees with decisions made. There is now a Turkey that is actively involved in the region's fate, leading what is being done about the region's plan, running with diplomacy as far as it can to keep peace and humanity going. Congressmans, we are an ancient state with a thousand years of history in this geography. There's no black mark in our nation's history that he can't account for. There's no blood in our past, there's no tears, there's no target. We see that they're just trying to cover up their plans for the so-called genocide bill, for the past, for the present, for the bloodshed, for the future, revenge, and exploitation. They're just trying to hide their own goals. About 100,000 Armenian citizens live in Turkey. One of them is our AK PARTY MP, Markar Eseyan, and I ask God to cure him, he's suffering from discomfort. Thus, such dirty propaganda continues over Turkey. Our president said so many times, he said, "Come on in, let's figure it out." Let's open our archives and examine them. There's no way, because they know they're going to face the truth when they open the archives, so they continue to make political material, political material, such things. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're still negotiating the budget budget for the presidency's government system that's been going on for days. He's done a year, we're talking about his 2nd year's budget. But what we've seen in one year's ongoing budget talks, unfortunately on its budget, and on the government system of the presidency, which Turkey is experiencing, may be failings day and night; the EC PARTI, our government, the administration, is working on it. The opposition has memorized this: the palace, the palace, the palace; the one man, the only man... In fact, we say to opposition lawmakers who say, "Dear friends, the home of the nation, which you call the "saray," is open to all members of the nation. The only man in the palace is the president of the nation's will. As Mr. Encel said, he has been eaten and eaten and continued to be president. If your problem isn't with our President, it has to be with the people, because the will of the people brought him there. In order not to disrespect the will of the nation, please respect the results of the election and the will of the nation, the President of the nation, who comes at the will of the nation, and do not engage at every opportunity.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0683par0441	Respect, and you respect our municipalities.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0442	Look, we show respect. We had an election in Istanbul and a friend was elected Mayor of Istanbul on 23 June with the support of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0684par0444	He was elected March 31st.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0683par0445	31 Marta come!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0446	I see, from June 23rd, there's no project, there's no opening, there's only pollen, there's only cute kid trip, and there's no service for the people of Istanbul. However, we, the AK PARTY, have been out of infrastructure for 25 years... Look, Canal Istanbul is being discussed here. There is no scientific data on Canal İstanbul.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0683par0448	Come on, I'll show you. Let's show you how much scientific data there is.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0449	We're going against it. Yes, it's the classic opposition of the CHP; you oppose Eurasia, you oppose Marmaray, you oppose the third bridge. You stand up, we do it, you say slogans; everybody knows that, Turkey knows that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0685par0451	Melen Dam...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0452	Actually, there's talk of water problems, water. Look, I'm saying Istanbul doesn't have water problems, infrastructure problems.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0686par0453	You guys figured it out, you solved it for 30 years!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0454	Now, I would like to ask my friends, the Republican People's Party MP, to ask you to speak, if it can't be solved, if there's any concern about water, let the Republican People's Party MPs present a bill.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0686par0455	You've solved the problem!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0456	Let's connect the BSKI to State Waterworks, see if Istanbul has water problems or not. Ride, ride, ride with a sword.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0686par0458	I thought you guys figured it out!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0459	So look, the election is over, remind your friend the mayor: Now, it's time to serve, not polemic.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0686par0460	It does, it does, it does, it does.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0461	Do not bring up Turkey's national issues with constant polemics. I'm trying to understand that there's a leadership contest inside the CHP, I think, that's why he's doing it. So I'm trying to understand that, too.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0686par0463	It's none of your business, none of your business.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0687par0464	What happened to the Melen Dam, Melen Dam?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0465	Dear friends, look, there are extraordinary developments in our region. As I just said, we all need to act together in the event of national unity, tie-in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0686par0466	You're the one who pulled it apart.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0682par0467	We need to fight together with forces trying to design the region facing global operations. We must never forget that we are members of the civilization of goodness, of compassion. I thank all the veterans, all our brothers and sisters, who have worked so hard on this budget, sir. I'd like to thank all of our deputies for their contribution in the budget talks. At this hour of the night, I salute you with all my love, and with all my love, and with all my care. May our budget be blessed.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0688par0471	Speeches for the group are complete.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0688par0473	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0476	Mr. President, now, of course, we've heard some very unpleasant words. He was chosen by the will of Istanbul on March 31st; you couldn't handle it, you put pressure on the Supreme Election Board.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0690par0477	Do you even think about the president who was elected by the will of the nation?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0478	You've spent three months with insults and challenges as a result of this indigestion.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0690par0479	Do you think you've got a taste for Recep Tayyip Erdogan who can win any election?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0480	For 17 years, those who had never been on television with their opponents saw the difference in the survey, and had hoped for a TV show with Ekrem Bey, and had not, and finally, at the end of the election that you had counted for days, you packed up a stone at seven to twenty and left in the car.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0691par0481	Where have you been for 18 years?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0482	You've reached a point where we'll slap you with an Ottoman slap. You've been hit by an unforgettable democracy from Istanbul. Now, you're looking to respect the person that Istanbul has chosen -- no, he's a lovely boy, or whatever, he's not going to fit in your mouth like this, and you're taking a tone that Mr. Ekrem Imamoglu will never, ever, ever, ever, ever, come down to that level.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0691par0484	Isn't he a good boy?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0485	But there is a fact: from our party, from our presidential candidate, Ekrem Imamoğlu, to the party, and so on. If we're dealing with a reality, you can't introduce it to the 2nd President of your party, to the 2nd Prime Minister after Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, to the 3th Prime Minister, and one day with a directive, to those who are made and put in front of us by a direct order, to those who are made and put in front of us, we're like nails, and we're like brothers' law, and you can't put the founder of your party now. Well, now, they're saying things about you, too, and they're saying things about you that you're in such a state...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0691par0487	Don't push it, you're pushing it, there's nothing there.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0692par0488	Here you go, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0489	Look, the confusion in your party...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0693par0490	There's a gang in your party, gang!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0491	For God's sake, Mr. Abdullah, you're the biggest gang! You're a member of the pressure gang on YSK. Shut up!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0693par0493	Listen to me! Your presidential candidate said there's a gang at your party.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0494	Mr. President, first of all, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0694par0495	Wait a minute... the clock's not fit to scream, guys. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0497	Now, first, let me tell Mr. Abdullah, Mr. President, Recep Special and Mr. Abdullah come to Parliament all the time after the June 23rd elections, they didn't come to much.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0695par0498	They always come, they always come, they're in our group administration.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0696par0499	We used to come all the time.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0689par0500	Why? This is the only hall Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan could not enter in Ankara. They are hiding in parliament so that they will not fall into the hands of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Or else there'll be smoke, the ones who called off this Istanbul election. Mr. President -- if he hadn't -- my final word: no one should try to export the mess within themselves to CHP. But I see you have adopted the language of opposition after Istanbul. In Istanbul, you've had the opposition you deserve for a long time, and God will soon grant you general power.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0697par0503	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0698par0504	I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0699par0505	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0697par0506	Mr. President, I'll answer, but I want you to promise our friend Abdullah Guler as well, and we'll give it to Mr. Abdullah first, because it's very heavy -- like that -- and I think he should answer in person, but I'd like to continue.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0699par0507	Aye. Mr. Abdullah, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0700par0510	Thank you very much, my dear President. Of course, I wouldn't have answered Free Bey if he hadn't mentioned my name at this time of night.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0701par0512	You picked on me, you picked on me. You said "telephone," you said "whatever," I said your name later, I said your name later.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0700par0513	But wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0702par0514	Let's hear it, let's hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0700par0516	Dear President, you...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0703par0517	Don't tell me he didn't mention my name. You said you picked on me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0702par0518	Let's hear it, let's hear it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0700par0519	Wait a minute, but... Your Highness...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0702par0521	Wait a minute, Mr. Abdullah... Mr. Group Vice President, friends, let's listen to each other patiently, let's complete the process.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0704par0523	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0702par0524	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0705par0525	I'm just saying that he sees himself looking in the mirror about my fellow MPs. When Mr. Ozgur makes a statement, he must also think that the same statement will come to him when he tells the person who is standing next to him, against him, around him, at his party. Now, while he's making an assessment of an election... the candidates for the president themselves -- closer, fifteen days ago -- there's a gang inside my party, and this gang is setting me up, plotting slander, plotting.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0706par0529	We'll talk more.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0707par0530	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0705par0531	Now, I'm not saying that, Mr. Freeman, that's your presidential candidate. You know why I say that? That's what you say to people who've served in the PATIENT. If you say that word, you'll hear it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0706par0532	That's what you say, of course you will.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0705par0533	Two: I am a member of the Group Governing Body of the AK PARTY. Every day, starting at eleven o'clock, I served here during this budget period, and before that, I served here. My party, my General Centre, gave me the task of working on election boards in Istanbul, along with its decision on May 10th, after the March 31st elections, when I was cancelled, and on May 6th, we went to Istanbul -- and followed the Parliament's work -- and we served. By neglecting your party's mission, by failing, by showing up late again today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is that what happened? You were on duty, weren't you?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0708par0536	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0709par0537	How many times have your Group Chairman Regents changed? Speak your mind! How many times does your group president come and go a day?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0708par0538	Miss Özlem, come in. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0710par0540	Mr. President, the answer is...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0708par0541	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0542	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0710par0543	Mr. Abdullah, I'll finish.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0712par0544	No, man, what else are they gonna talk about? How dare you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0545	Mr. President, I'm here to tell a congressman...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0713par0546	Mr. President, you take the vote, end the vote, and they'll talk until morning.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0714par0547	He's finishing it, he's finishing it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0548	I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0714par0549	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0715par0550	Your people are deciding for us!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0551	Mr. President, I thought your party...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0714par0552	You've said all you need.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0553	Mr. President, my last word.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0714par0554	I get it, but half an hour...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0555	No, my last sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0714par0556	You said it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0716par0557	Mr. President, let the report go, and I'm not saying anything more. He says you failed your duty today.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0558	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0716par0559	Hold on, hold on!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0711par0561	Wait a minute, you can't speak for me!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0716par0562	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0717par0563	No, wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0716par0564	Whoa, whoa, whoa!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0718par0565	Wait a second, wait a second, no yelling! Wait, no yelling!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0719par0566	You can't speak for me!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0720par0567	Wait a minute!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0718par0568	Wait, no yelling!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0720par0569	Will you guys shut up!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0718par0570	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0721par0571	He can't speak for me!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0720par0572	Yeah, brother, come here. You spoke, you answered.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0721par0573	No, he's saying... he can't speak for me, not ever.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0720par0574	I promised Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0722par0575	Did you or did you not say no? You failed your duty today, he says. Do you know where I was?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0720par0576	Mr. Free, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0723par0577	I forbid it. He calls me... to hide from the President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0722par0578	Mind your own business, mind your own business! Get on with it!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0723par0579	I forbid it! I refuse!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0722par0580	He's part of the gang that called off the election.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0723par0581	You're the gang!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0722par0582	It's you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0723par0583	You're the gang!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0722par0584	It's you!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0585	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0725par0586	I can't hear things. Miss Özlem, here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0589	Now, Mr. Special, look, in your address to me earlier -- then your microphone wasn't on -- I don't know why you're attacking people where things are narrowing down.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0726par0590	Yeah, what the fuck!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0591	No, I'm talking about me and my friend, together.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0726par0592	For God's sake!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0727par0593	Oh, don't talk to each other, friends, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0594	Please...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0727par0595	Here you go, Miss Özlem.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0596	Mr. President, I'm telling you this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0727par0597	Hit the floor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0598	Now, we're talking about our problems here, Mr. Ozgur says: "You run away, you go away, you hide in rooms!"
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0728par0599	That's what you would say if we said something like that.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0600	No, that's not it, just a second! My dear friends, look, I've been here all morning, I've been here on time, I've been here all morning.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0728par0602	Don't get angry or anything, just calm down, calm down, we've been talking calmly all morning.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0603	I'll decide for myself what to say, and you won't.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0728par0604	After a while, again...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0605	No, look, you're going to repeat the same thing, you're going to repeat the same thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0729par0606	Mr. Free, will you please shut up! Why don't you let the Deputy Director of the Group speak?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0607	Here are the Deputy Group Presidents -- because I'm considering them in a wholety -- and they're not going to be Deputy Directors of the Group. No such thing, no such thing, they're going to decide everything themselves. I decide what time I'm going to sit here -- with my group -- when I'm going to sit down, when I'm going to pray, when I'm going to eat, I'll decide for myself.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0730par0608	That's not what Abdullah said, it's not me.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0609	We're three people standing guard here at the same time. We are on guard one, two, and three. It's not my place to tell anyone I'm going, I'm coming, I'm getting up! I'm doing my job. It's about my friends, the General Assembly isn't a hiding place, the General Assembly is a place for honorable people, they come here, they do their duty. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Would you open it, please, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0731par0614	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0724par0615	You can't accuse my party of being a gangbanger to any of my fellow lawmakers at my party. If you say that, you'll get your answer. You've had a life of opposition, you've won a choice for the first time in your life, and you're stretched back and forth. Let's see what happens next. We, after all, do everything we do in a humble manner, not attacking anyone, but your way of doing it is to attack people's people where you're narrowing them down. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0731par0618	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0732par0619	No, we'll give you your answer this time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0731par0620	Mr. Free, let's wrap this up before it gives us an answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0733par0621	What's the matter, Mayor?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0732par0623	You're not born with an answer.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0734par0624	Where's it coming from, sir? We're talking.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0732par0625	Miss Özlem heard wrong. The problem is here...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0734par0626	I don't hear wrong at all. I hear fine. What do you mean he heard wrong? I didn't hear wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0732par0627	Listen to me, I've listened to you, I've listened to you. That's not gonna happen, honey.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0734par0628	I don't agree, what do you mean, he heard wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0735par0629	Miss Miss Özlem, let me tell you something. So please talk to a Group Vice President or a member of parliament without consulting him.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0736par0631	Mr. President, let me tell you: Mr. Abdullah missed his special assignment and arrived late today. I went for my only daughter's birthday, and I asked Engin Bey for a reason that the plane could not rise from the fog. 20 minutes late, 30 minutes late, an hour late. That's what I've been saying, he's interrupted his mission. I said, "How many times a day do your Group Vice Presidents change?" I said, "No one can interfere with that."
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0737par0632	Oh, he's talking!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0736par0633	No, that's what I said, that's what I said.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0737par0634	That's not what you said at all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0738par0635	Not like this...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0739par0636	Anyway, he's fixing it, he's fixing it. Mr. Naci, he's fixing it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0740par0637	On the contrary, I have nothing to say.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0741par0638	No, no, you just did.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0740par0639	On the contrary, I have nothing to say. Miss Özlem is upset. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0742par0641	Mayor, what the hell, what the hell, there's no such thing!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0740par0642	If I said something like that, I'd say it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0743par0643	No, I won't accept it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0744par0649	Yes, it's Nevşehir MP Yücel Menekşe who wants to speak for himself on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Violet.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0745par0652	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0746par0654	Listen! Listen carefully.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0747par0655	I decide when I'm coming, when I'm going, what I'm going to say.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0746par0656	Listen! You're having a nervous breakdown. Listen carefully!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0747par0657	You're having a seizure yourself! Mind your own fucking language!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0746par0658	How many times have I said yours have changed?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0747par0659	Look at your language, your language!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0746par0660	I told Mr. Abdullah in answer. I didn't tell you anything.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0747par0661	That's what you said. I listened word for word.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0748par0662	We can continue after the vote. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0749par0664	...on the 4th article of the management budget in 2020, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0750par0665	You're screaming without hearing the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0751par0666	Not at all. I heard word for word.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0750par0667	Everyone heard it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0751par0668	You're attacking people.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0750par0669	We're not attacking anyone.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0751par0670	That's right, you're attacking him.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0752par0671	Before I begin my words, on the 746th anniversary of his death, This tense air at this time of night, Kapadocia, if necessary...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0751par0673	You put words like that in your head, you put words like a knife in it, it goes, it comes, it comes, it comes, it comes...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0753par0674	If Abdullah hadn't interfered, nothing would have happened.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0751par0675	Jesus Christ! He's getting carried away. He's saying. That's what's gonna decide everything.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0754par0676	Our MP is talking about the manna, gentlemen, so with the leniency of the lords... Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0755par0678	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to take you to the land of Cappadocia. At least let's hope we can smooth things over. It is a province in the center of Anatolia, the history and culture city of Cappadocia, which is approved by the UN-HABITAT, the world's peace centre, with its 15 districts, 153 villages, and the history and culture city of the world and Turkey. In short, I'd like to talk about our counties. I invite you, all of our deputies, to see the town of Avanos, where the world's most beautiful zucchini core grows today, our district of Tugggöl, and the town of Avanos, which is famous for cooking pot. I invite you to see the district of Haci Bektas Veli, again, the underground city of Bektas Veli, with the potato depository, the Deepkuyu, the health tourism, when we call it Kozaklı, and our history and culture. And I invite all the people of the world from this community. A region that contributes to Turkish tourism, contributes to the economy of Turkish tourism, and contributes to tourism in the country today's economy, with the belief that our Minister of Tourism and the Ministry put in its 65 billion dollars in revenues, capadocia today, in its 11th month, with 3,87,000 tourists and hopefully 4 million tourists at the end of the year. I'd like to briefly talk about investments in our city in our AK PARTY. With the understanding of the social state, 1.48 billion euros for family, labour and social services, $1.27 billion for agriculture and forest, $711.8 million for transportation and communication, $329m in healthcare, $297m in education, $128.6m for environmental and urbanism, $105.70m in culture and tourism, our Nevşehir region has received a total amount of $8.21 billion in revenues and resources in 17 years. So I thank them very much for this contribution our state, our government, our President, has made to our province. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0756par0685	The greatest Nevşehir. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0755par0688	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it's hard to sum up Nevşehir in five minutes like this. There was a lot of stuff I wanted to say, but there wasn't enough time. With all due respect... As a result, the budget of 2020 was designed to maintain fiscal discipline, increase exports, divert resources to productive areas, increase investments, increase employment, increase savings, reduce current deficits. I know a debt of gratitude to our Treasury and Finance Ministry, our Plan and Budget Commission and our bureaucrats, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been working on the drafting of the Budget Law Proposal for 2020. I wish the central management budget of 2020, which is the 2nd and 18th budget of the presidential government system and the EC PARTY government, to the best of our state, our nation. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. I'll expect you all in Cappadocia as soon as possible. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0757par0695	Adana MP Burhanettin Bulut has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0758par0698	Mr. President, I don't know whether to say good night or good morning at three o'clock in the morning, but I give you all my regards. This is the picture that has appeared in talks about the budget over the past ten days: the budget is not expressed by numbers alone. There's a vision of that power within the budget, there's a political understanding of that power, there's a democracy, and more importantly, there's what parts of it you're close to. Whatever budget you're looking at is closer to you. For example, you set up a budget, there's a crisis -- like what happened in Turkey -- you include them in that budget, you put stuff that involves healing them; for example, you contribute a little bit to people who can't live on minimum wage, who need social assistance. But we're looking at this budget, which involves paying $140 billion interest, like the city hospital, like the highways, like the airports, where billions are poured into projects like the airports, and again, those contractors around the palace, and billions are poured out to contractors who find 30 or 40 people; naturally, not from producers, not from production; naturally, not from poor people, but from those who are struggling with Turkey. And we're not saying that as an affinity. Let me tell you the latest figures in Turkey: for example, the citizen's debt is close to 550 billion. For example, the number of files in the executive offices is over 21 million. For example, Turkey has gained 817,000 jobless jobs this year alone, more than the population of 55 cities in Turkey. For example, minimum wage is below the age of starvation. For example, there are 16 million poor people in Turkey and 14 million people on welfare. For example, in the first nine months of this year, there are 700,000 people who have lost power and failed to pay the gas bill. Again, 5.5 million people were e-accessed, so their accounts were blocked. Again, here, the tradesman's debt, the problems at YIT, or the unemployment I was just talking about, most importantly, the young people can't pay their loans as a student. Again, the latest figure on this part: The young female unemployment rate has found 33 per cent in Turkey. It's a record; it's nothing compared to developed countries, but it's one of the highest numbers in developing countries. So, who is this unresolved budget for people's problems? When we look back, every chance we get, he's supporting these palace contractors by encouraging them, by passing public resources through the law. How? For example, an Entity Fund is being established. From this Entity Fund, a source is being transferred to the Financial Centre in Istanbul, $1 billion,650 million. Who's that? You all know very well, Ali Agaoğlu. Ali Agaoğlu's project is supported by $1 billion,650 million. So, what about the other contractors? You know, there are contractors in the other section. Let me show you an example of them: Our contractor committed suicide. Three contractors, the contractor I knew, committed suicide in Adana alone last year because of the economic crisis. Well, there's someone else you've recently supported, who is he? I'll show you right away, Mr. Bagel, many of you know him. How much money was Mr. Bagel paid? 500 million. So, why is our friend famous? Look in the papers, look in the papers, in his private plane, in his classic cars... don't let me miss this, isn't this our friend with gifts for his very famous young lovers? The number of car owners in Turkey, in expensive cars, owns a small number of cars around the world, this Ali Aghaoglu. Now, we support that. Why are we supporting him? I mean, what's the point? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, in one sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0759par0703	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0758par0704	We support them, we support them, but there's a company in Adana called TEMSA, a 50-year-old company that exports to 70 countries around the world. He must have come across these vehicles that travel to Europe, America, because most tourists use their vans on tours in the tourism industry, all with TEMSA brands. This brand is the only company of Adana, which remains after the closing of BOSSA, TEKEL, TEKOBIRLIK, PAKTAŞ, Milli Mensuat. You guys are constantly referring to the locals and the nationals. This company manufactures local and national buses, making vans. He's got 1,300 employees, and it affects 3,000 people; it affects 10,000 people as a family. But beyond that, you see the TEMSA brand when you go to Europe. It's local and national to see the TEMSA brand. But you -- let me show you again -- you support this friend. I'll show you again... Where's our beautiful friend?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0760par0709	Well, thank you, Congressman. Now we're going to do the question-answer process in five minutes, questions, and five minutes to answer. Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0761par0712	The town of Sinanpaşa, Afyonkarahisar Province, has been closed down, but the villagers have gone to the judiciary and the judiciary has decided to reopen the municipality. The AKP also promised during the election, but despite the judicial decision, its municipalities have not been opened. You say the judgment is above our heads, but you do not abide by the judgment of the South. With an increase in central management debt, even unborn children are in debt, while millions of pensioners are trying to make ends meet at the end of the month with $1,000, 1,500 lira, while 6 million are unable to make ends meet with minimum wage, while 1,800,000 people are struggling to make a living under the minimum wage, you give the low-income 100,000 news of social housing. You said you'd give it to him, but you'd give him 10 percent down payment and $894 a month in installments. Mr. Oktay, where will the low-income poor citizen get a down payment on these dwellings? Let's say he did, how's he gonna pay his monthly payments? There's a message from seasonal forest workers...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0762par0717	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0763par0718	Mr. Vice President Fuat Oktay, 3:05 p.m. Please wake up at this hour. I say take care of the Turkish farmer. Let's build the Turkish farmer's debt to the Agriculture Loan Co-ops, to the Agriculture Bank together. Let's divide the principal into five equal cabs, erase the interest. However you've erased someone's taxes, just as you've saved Ali Agaoglu, whatever you've saved Simit Palace, come to this country, I say we save the farmers who produce healthy, reliable food, I say we save the tradesman, but you block your ears, unfortunately when we call it configuration, you run away. You're composing other people's debts; you support Russian, Ukrainian, French farmers, but you block your ears when they come to the Turkish farmer, the Turkish tradesman. I'm telling you, you've got 56 million dollars for the palace that floats in your budget, 406 million dollars for your planes; come, give these money to the Turkish farmer, the Turkish tradesman. Together, I say we support the law we bring together, forgive the Turkish farmer's debts.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0762par0721	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0764par0722	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Vice President, and I'll repeat the question I've just asked: In the last hours of the U.S. Congress, the bill on the Turkish Stream Project, which carries Russian gas to Europe, has been adopted for sanctioning the S-400. A decision on the removal of the arms embargo for the Greek Cypriot administration has been made on this issue, and the decision on whether the F-35 will be given to Turkey or not. What do you think about that? I just asked. In his earlier statement, the president said that we could make a decision at any time to shut down the bases in Kurecik and İncirlik. You're going to take a test on this, Mr. Vice President. Critics are: Are you a civil servant or a politician? The question I've just asked you about this has been evasive, so please give me a clear answer on this, and I think your answer will be tomorrow's agenda.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0762par0725	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0765par0726	What is our number of citizens in Turkey and Adana province who have been subjected to execution because they were unable to pay credit cards, personal and commercial loans and housing and consumer loans from 2015 to 19? Again, what number of citizens have been convicted in Turkey and Adana for failing to pay their debts in the last five years? Between 2014-2019, what are the number of tradeskeepers in Turkey and Adana province who have been pursued due to their debt to the tradesmen and bail co-ops? The Vice President wants the sound of 26,000 physical treatment technicians waiting for the appointment to be heard. They say they're out in the open with 88 points. Is the appointment scheduled for these? Is it also considered to increase the advertising fees of the Press Agency, which is of great importance to the Anadolu press at this time when paper prices are overexploring? Will the Press Agency do a study to reduce the cuts he made in the newspapers?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0766par0730	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0767par0731	Thank you, Mr. President. Three questions: In the 1990s, the Defence Industry Presidency carried out a large project portfolio from the beginning of the 2000s, with joint production and domestic development methods, from land vehicles to drones, from military ships to electronic warfare systems. What's the defence industry presidency doing about accessing high-tech? What are the important areas of activity that have been carried out in this regard recently? My second question: what are the contributions of SSEDAK activities to our country? My third question: What work is being done in Turkey to support local journalism? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0768par0736	Now, to answer the questions, I give the word to the Commission. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0769par0738	Mr. President, all questions will be answered by our Vice President, Mr. Fuat Oktay Bey. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0770par0740	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start with Mr. Flagtutan's question, but Mr. Flagtutan, you're in no position to test me or evaluate me. I'd like to express it first.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0771par0743	What do you mean? What arrogance!
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0770par0744	It was adopted on July 12, 2020, 2019, and on June 27, 2019, the Senate version of the National Defence Authority Act, which regulates the use of the annual federal budget for military construction and the Ministry of Energy for national security activities. This bill includes provisions that involve sanctions for Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0771par0745	So?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0770par0746	Of course, here, members of Congress, particularly after internal political reckonings, continue to damage the vision of improving our relations with America. Here we also know that the influence of the environments against Turkey is inevitable. What we've done in the past, what we're going to do in the future, about how we're going to respond, is also a guarantee, a clue.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0771par0748	What did you do?
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0770par0749	We've made preliminary assessments and alternative scenarios and preliminary preparations for all alternative scenarios. Again, Mr. President, we will make the most sensitive assessments of all relevant ministries and institutions, including Parliament, and we will make our final decision on our final course of action. Threat language and sanctions will not put us back from standing upright, from acting in the interest of Turkey. All options are on the table. As for the other questions, if you'll excuse me, I'll continue with the questions. There was especially debate about minimum wage. Here, compared to 2018, we kept our promise that we would not crush our workers with inflation by increasing the minimum wage by more than 26 percent. In 2002, we increased the net minimum price, which was 184 liras, to $2.020 in 2019, to about 10 times nominally. In reality, we have increased the minimum wage by about 1.5 times. When we look at the reflection of the minimum wage acquisition power, the EU is ranked 15th in early 2002 and the candidate countries, 12th in 2017 and 2018, while our country is ranked 10th in the year. We'll try to give our employees the best we can. If we're gonna give it to him, we're gonna give it to him. There was a question about the adolescent, and I would like to explain to you again whether he would be cleansed or not. You know there's a plan to protect the basin from the pollution of the Ergene River. 15 actions have been set and cost 4 billion liras. Seven of these actions have been completed, five actions have been completed, and three actions are continuous. In 2011, there were 1 treatment plant in more than 10,000 settlements, while these treatment facilities were now raised to 13. 12 domestic biological forward treatment facilities were built by the DSI General Directorate. Disorganized industries are gathered under 10 organised industrial areas. For these organised industrial areas, the five joint industrial waste treatment facilities have been completed by three. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish this.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0772par0754	Go ahead and complete it.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0770par0755	After the wastewater from these organised industrial areas is passed through the forward treatment plant, it will be given to the bottom current of the Sea of Marmara. The Marmara Deep Sea Discharge System is completed at 99 per cent of the eastern line and is scheduled to open in March 2020. The entire system will be completed at the end of 2020 or at the latest in 2021. It is predicted that the Ergene River will come to watering quality when 460,000 cubic metres/days of refined waste water is discharged into the Sea of Marmara. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I can go on.
tbmm-2019-12-17sit07spe0772par0758	Talks on Article 4 have been completed. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 18th 2019) to discuss the 5th and 13th articles of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2020, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
