tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Mustafa Destici, who wants to talk about increased terrorist incidents. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0002par0009	Dear President, dear MPs, I salute you and every member of my nation that follows us with respect, love, and conversation. First of all, I wish our Turkish Armed Forces to have mercy on our brothers, family and nation, who have been martyred in Operation Claw and infantry, Lieutenant Rashit Aydın and Infantry Sergeant Mehmet Taşhan. Respected MPs, the Turkish nation is an army nation. In each period of our lives, we felt that we were part of the honorable Turkish army, regardless of our current education, position, and duty. So, without even having to make a statement of support about the operation, I'm asking for blessings from the Lord Almighty that we've always been there for. Precious lawmakers, we also closely and carefully follow the action in order to see and measure the contribution of our local defence industry, our army's ability to operate in the field. Operation Claw has a strategic and vital importance to limiting Kandil's field of operations and closing logistical pathways. I see the operation as an important step towards the control of the east of Fırat, the northeast of Syria, and the north of Iraq, no matter what the cost, no matter how many times we've expressed it before, and I wish it to be the beginning of the fate of terror that aims at our nation's existence. I'd like to stress the importance of cooperation with Iran and the Iraqi Central Administration, so that the conditions of regional geography and geopolitic security can be permanent. In this scope, I find the visit of Iraqi President Barham Salih to Turkey important, and I wish Turkey and Iraq's cooperation in terrorism to be permanent. Turkey's determination to fight terrorism is also an important opportunity for Iran and Iraq, for the security and territorial integrity of these countries. In addition, US and Russian administrations who consider themselves quarterbacks in the region should not take steps to compromise Turkey's security, which should not be forgotten that no one, especially the civilian population living in the region, will benefit. The efforts of the YPG to preserve the PKK while intersecting the PKK are a clear indication that the people involved in this work are not sincere in the fight against terrorism. My dear nation, Iraq and Syria are not a region of Arabs and Kurds. Turks have been the main and most important elements of this region for over a thousand years. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a guarantee of the security of Turkmen's presence in the region. On this occasion, I remind you that from the very beginning, Turkey has been with Iraq and Syria's territorial integrity. One thing I want to emphasize here is that the fight against all elements of terrorism should never be abandoned and never be returned to a new negotiation process. In particular, Turkey must not give up three things and back down in this period: First, the purchase of the S400, and second, the operation which we hope will take place after the festival to the northeast of Syria, or east of Fırat, and third, the achievements in the eastern Mediterranean basin, which we hope will take place after the festival. Again, I wish our martyrs mercy and blessings on our heroic army. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in a few sentences, I'd like to point out something that often comes up and bleeds our national consciences. The pedophilia, unfortunately, has become a problem in our country that we have a hard time finding a solution. I'd like to express with determination that if a crime can't be prevented in a country, one of the first things to be done is to review the punishments for that crime. Of course, there will be other measures involved. By expanding the field of child abuse, including the academic branch of medicine, including administration, sociology, education, law enforcement and local governments...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0003par0019	Let's wrap this up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0002par0020	...there should be immediate work in this area, including our children who have been abused, especially those who have been working the streets, begging for help. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the legislator, must carry out its role in resolving the sentences in this matter. As of today, this matter has become a necessity. As members of the Veteran Assembly that founded the Republic, we bear responsibility to our nation, to future generations and to history. Let us never forget that if the state cannot protect its children, every word about the sanctity of the state will ease its meaning and lose it. With this feeling and thought, I salute you worthy members of the High Assembly, congratulating the blessed Night of Kadir, the blessed Night of our nation and of all the world of Islam, and the Festival of Ramadan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0004par0024	The second non-responsive statement belongs to İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu, who asked for a comment on the historical and cultural values of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Kalyoncu.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0005par0028	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-topic promise on the historical and cultural values of Tripoli. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. In recent months, various hints have been made against the Tripolians. All hints and accusations against Tripoli and Tripoli, which I pride myself on being a son, are false statements of treason that serve a secret Pontusian claim. It dates back to the 7th century B.C.E., and in the beginning of this history -- for those who want to learn -- there are Saka Turks. So since the 7th century B.C.E., Tripoli has been one of the Turkish settlements. Also, the presence of Kuman-Kipçak Turks in the region remains clear in their location. For a period of time, the presence of Tripoli in the area ruled by Byzantines did not eliminate Turkish presence in the region, only causing the Greeks to settle in the region. In 1461, some 2,000 Turks were recorded in Kaleiçi, when Sultan Mehmet Han conquered him. After this date, Tripoli has been Turkish for five hundred and fifty-eight years, is Turkish, and will remain Turk forever. (MHP and GOOD PARTY) In addition, historical records show that since the time of Orhan Ghazi, there have been other furnaces in Tripoli. In the Russian War, every moment of the battle of the militia's defence was a heroic epic. In Çaykara, Sultan Murat Yaylaş, Axtcı Deresi and Arsinlu Creek are only a few of the battle zones the Tripolians fought against the fierce Russian armies in the wars. During the War of Salvation, the massacre against the Turkish community, which was launched by armed Greek gangs during the occupation, was ended by the central army under the command of our Veteran Assembly. I'm going to give a recommendation to those who are talking about the Tripolians in our Veterans' Parliament, and to bring up the Turkishmen's home, such as Erivan and Erbil, and to stand up against racial attacks here. I went to Tripoli without reading the books of history, without knowledge, and I saw him there, and I compared them to nothing. Their expressions are simply ignorance. For years, the most intense missionary activities have been conducted in Tripoli, but the Tripolians have not been able to pass the game. In any opinion, the country is a city with only one punch when it comes to the nation. It's no coincidence that the PKK carried its activities to the Black Sea, and we say: "Eren, I'm glad you exist." My brother Eren Bulbül, who has become a symbol of the struggle against the separatists, be your soul. From here, I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs. I would like to remind you that Turkey is indivisible with its country and its nation, that our country is not a pebble to be abandoned; that we cannot give up any Turk, because others want it. For us, every individual connected to this state is valued by citizenship, and no one is discriminated against by ethnic and religious origins, the only distinction is against traitors. It is not divided by its nation and its country, but the guarantee of the Republic of Turkey for a period of time is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under which we are under its roof. People, we Turkish nationalists, who have not sacrificed for the sake of our country and state, are also the guarantee of our unity and unity. The real heroes of our struggle against treason in and out of the country wish our Mehmet-donos here success, victory and health to return to their homes, I pray the Lord God. I hereby celebrate the Night of Kadir of the Turkish Islamic world and the Day of Ramadan, bringing blessings to our state and to our nation.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement is from İstanbul MP Müsörref Pervin Tuba Durgut, who asked to be mentioned as World Non-Smoker Day on May 31st. Here you go, Mr. Durgut.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0007par0045	Mr. President, since 1988, since 31 May, the World Health Organization celebrates the most important reason for preventable death and disease as a world day without cigarettes to draw attention to tobacco epidemics, to raise awareness of the tobacco industry's tactics that threaten public health, to defend policies and interventions based on evidence in fighting cigarette addiction and to protect future generations from this deadly epidemic. A world without cigarettes... What would it really be like in a world without cigarettes, let's all try to imagine it together. If the world had never met cigarettes, seven million people in the world would not have died every year in our country because of cigarettes. According to World Health Organization data, 700 million children, half the children in the world, would not be exposed to deadly smoking smoke. 700,000 people who were exposed to other people's cigarette smoke would not die without smoking. Lung cancer would be a rare disease. In men's deaths with lung cancer, our country would not be ranked number one in the world, or by 1950, the deaths related to lung cancer would not increase by 600 percent, due to the widespread use of smoking in women, and lung cancer would not result in cancer number one among women. With multinational cigarette companies making billions of dollars, we weren't going to spend 9 billion every year on cigarette-related diseases in our country. If the world had never met cigarettes, there would have been many environmental disasters because of cigarette giants. For example, every year in our country, 35,000 tons of cigarette butts would not be polluting our streets, our beaches, our seas, our parks. Lawmakers are growing tobacco in more than 4 million hectares of agriculture in more than 120 kilometers of countries around the world. It threatens tobacco agriculture, environment and human health in backward countries, including African countries fighting hunger. Industrial tobacco agriculture, which causes decline in biodiversity, deforestation and erosion, also requires a lot of use of chemicals. If the world had been as non-smoking as we had imagined, there would not have been soil and water supply limited in Africa, or 200,000 hectares of forest every year because of the trees that were cut down to smoke tobacco. If normal agriculture had been done instead of tobacco farming in the backward countries, there would have been enough food to be produced for 20 million hungry people. Members of parliament, scientific studies investigating the harmful effects of cigarettes began in the late 1940s and quickly increased evidence that smoking is a cancer-producing and lethal product. In 1964, the American Surgeon General Report was officially declared that smoking causes lung cancer. Despite this, multinational cigarette companies continue their unethical activities throughout the world with their annual marketing tactics. Today, millions, including children and young people, are still dependent on this lethal product. Mr. President, it is our constitutional duty to protect children and young people under the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Article 58. In the very near future, we may not be able to give our children a world free of smoking, but with scientific policy and regulations, we can protect them from the effects of this deadly epidemic. As a result of our President's leadership and will in this area from 2008, we have implemented very important legal provisions for reform in public health. Applying these legal regulations uncompromising, developing them according to the changing needs, and keeping awareness fresh in this field is vital to success and sustainability. On May 31st, a World Day without Cigarettes, I think it's a great opportunity for us to fight and renew our faith once again, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0008par0054	Congressmans, now, I'm going to promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. After these words, I will meet the demands of the members of the group's vice presidents. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0009par0058	Last Friday, our President Ihsan Oztoklu, who was elected from the National Movement Party in the Cumhur Alliance, died due to a stab wound to the heart of the mayor and the son of the candidate in the previous term. In the prime of his life, 42 years old, married, father of two, we lost our president as a mission martyr. We all know that no position is worth more than a drop of human blood. May Allah never cause a scene like this again. The town of Doğanhisar is also very upset by the mention of such a thing, and its original stab wounds have wounded the hearts of the Doğanhisars. As our county, whose natural love, his love for our country, is the most martyring of all, we are deeply saddened by the fact that such a matter has happened. I ask God's mercy again to our martyr of duty, Ihsan Oztoklu. I'm sorry for the loss of the honorable family and our Doğanhisars.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0008par0060	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0010par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. The inhabitants of Antalya are now on migration roads. However, the landscapes and habitats of the lands along the way of the migration are destroyed by mountains, marble furnaces. In Akseki, there is an opening in the middle of the sites in the neighborhoods of Elizesi, Pınarbaş, Çıçukçukur and Çukurköy. Because of these furnaces, numerous species of endemic plants and animals, olive groves, history and nature, are in danger of extinction. The activities of the marble furnaces must be terminated immediately. Everything will be fine when Antalya's nature is not delivered to Ranta. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0011par0065	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0012par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Violence is cruelty. Violence is all individual and collective acts that cause human body and spiritual damage by applying force and pressure. A phenomenon as ancient as human history, man's paths cross at different times and places. However, today's most important and primary problem will be violence, given the violence of different species in each part of the world. Humanity is today wrapped in physical, psychological, sociological, political, cultural, economic, verbal, sexual, and other forms of violence. The violence that family and family members inflict on each other is a variety of forms of violence against women, children, elderly people; violence against vulnerable people and disabled persons in society; destruction against animals and nature; the violence of the ceremony, terrorism and anarchy surrounds you. Violence is expressed in our culture by the concept of persecution.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0011par0070	Mr. Green...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0013par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Today he has just attempted to pour gasoline on and burn himself in front of the monument of the Great Leader Ataturk, pride, work, trust. This citizen says that I have trouble bringing food into my home. I borrowed from the loan shark at high interest, and I'm in a difficult situation, and I want to make a public announcement. He came out of Urbana to Ankara to meet with the authorities, but no one was interested. He wants to burn himself last resort. I ask those who should be ashamed of this painting: public banks lend money to the shopkeepers, farmers, workers, when they should be lending money to people who have to borrow money from the loan shark. How many of our citizens have tried to kill themselves in the last year, saying they've been having the same difficulties? Parliament's agenda is to change the name of a county...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0014par0077	Mr. President, thank you. Turkey has thousands of caterers, and most of them provide public service. A firm that received the tender in August 2018 has a huge difference between its current prices and this period's prices. Look, at that time, on August 2018, a tin of sunflower oil was $80, and now it's $120. One kilogram of rice is $4, now it's $7. He's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, The price of a can of 10 kilograms of sauce was £30, now around $88. These companies are hurting, they're going under, they're starting to declare bankruptcy. Either these tenders are terminated or the price difference is applied to companies. Public Contracts Act 4735 has been passed; yes, it has been done correctly, but unfortunately, these companies are applying, and these applications by caterers are not rejected, and we demand special sensitivity to caterers. In addition, the roads of Tetirlik, Ortaköy and Şahintepesi villages in the District of Paşacık district of Kahramanmarash district have not been made, but we've been talking about the roads of these villages for a year now, but...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0015par0081	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0016par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. We are in the final days of God's mercy, forgiveness, and holy month, a token of His mercy to His servants. The Qur'an is better than a thousand months in its own words. We will understand the Night of Kadir, which he calls "the Night of Destiny" tomorrow evening, hopefully. A thousand months is an average human life span of 80 years, and the Night of Kadir, which comes every year, wants them to see how and how they spend their lives while giving a lifetime to the faithful. I congratulate you on the blessed Night of Kadir of all the Islamic world, which is primarily our country and our heart geography, with my best wishes and feelings. I salute the General Assembly, that I may attain the feast of Ramadan in good health, in good health, and in good health, and in peace, and in good health.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0015par0085	Mr. Esgin...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0017par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. In 16 years, we've created a world model in health. The true hero of this success story is always our greatest inspiration, our beloved nation. In the last 16 years, we have opened 16 new hospitals, and the 10th city hospital in our country will be opened shortly. Six hospitals, general hospital, heart vessel, oncology, obstetrics and children, physical therapy and psychiatry, will respond to an important need. Yeah, we're opening up a city hospital that covers six hospitals instead of closing three hospitals that have completed their physical life. The city hospital will serve as our total number of beds plus 530, plus 150 intensive care plus 26 burn units. There will also be no problems with the transport of the city hospital through the measures and regulations taken by the city's Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0015par0090	Mr. Strawberry...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0018par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. May my Lord protect and preserve our Mehmets in Operation Claw, performed by our Turkish Armed Forces to end terror at its source beyond our borders. Lieutenant Rashit Aydın of the Giresun Espye, who was a martyr in Operation Claw for the welfare of our nation, and Infantry Sergeant Mehmet Taşhan of the Turkish district of Kahramanmarash. May my Lord accept your testimony, and my condolences on our nation's loss. The strong army is indispensable to strong Turkey. The Anatolian geography has made the strong army indispensable as it stands. Instead, we politicians should be the first to show their morale-enhancing words and attitudes, as well as our soldiers, police, gendarmes, and rangers who are fighting terrorism. It is our historical duty not to allow one death on our southern borders and on the Mediterranean. History must not be repeated, as it did in Mosul and Kerkuk 100 years ago. I remind all patriots to act in this frame, conscious of their responsibilities, to salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0019par0095	Mr. Kenanoglu...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0020par0097	Mr. President, a student studying at Eyüp Sultan İMKB High School in Karadolap neighborhood of Eyüp district of İbüp district of İstanbul is expelled from school because he is not fasting. The profession of a teacher named Orhan Salim is not a teacher, but also a mosque imam. In an interview with the school principal to tell his family about what happened, and in order to discuss it with the family, the principal has welcomed the matter among us. The practice of this person, Orhan Salim, who is not qualified to teach, is evident. His continuing duties will have negative consequences for students in a pedagogical sense. It is also necessary to initiate administrative procedures regarding the person's immediate dismissal and the principal's attitude towards closing the matter. We hereby declare ourselves followers of the subject and the process.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0019par0098	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0021par0100	Mr. President, valuable MPs, the equipment and staff of Ankara Bilkent City Hospital, Ankara Numune and High Medicine Hospitals has been partially opened. City Hospital, as far as we know, has been tendered as a key delivery. Now we're watching anxiously for some hospitals to move. The moving Ankara Numune Hospital is one of the first hospitals in our republic. By this time, Turkey has served all of Turkey. At the same time, he has trained thousands of specialists in Turkish medicine, the largest hospital in Turkey. The High Medicine Hospital is one of our legendary hospitals. These two hospitals are our national wealth, our eyeballs; it's impossible to understand how to close them. Specimen Hospital must continue to serve as a hospital for the Turkish nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0019par0102	Mr. Karahocagil...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0022par0104	These are the basic principles of human-based service by the EC PARTY, who is seeking the services of our nation by the heart's municipality, calling it a work of the heart. City plans will be prepared, infrastructure and transport will be solved in all cities, urban transformation will be conducted according to the needs of our citizens, unique cities will be developed in accordance with their own stories, smart cities and technology will be used in all the resources of technology, environmentally respected cities will be developed, social municipalism will be popularized, horizontal urbanization will be supported, public administration will be shown, savings and transparency will be cared for, value-producing cities will be established. Our Istanbul, which has been the most beautiful city in the world with the white city of AK PARTI for twenty-four years, will say again on June 23rd.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0023par0107	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0024par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. The city is an industrial city, although 43 per cent of its area is a city of tourism with serious natural wealth, with forests. The giant Forestian Park, which contains plants and animals that grow in our geography, spread to 400 acres of its natural environment, became number one in Turkey. This model project, where humans, cities and nature live together, consists of six episodes -- the zoo, the wildlife area, the walk and the bicycle tracks, the trailer and the tent campsite, the nature school, wildlife protection and rehabilitation center. On average, 700,000 people from within the province and outside the province visit the forest, which was opened in mid-2018. I thank you, Dr. Tahir Büyükakın, and the mayor of the city, Ibrahim Karaosmanoglu, our former president of the forest, who brought the forest into our city.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0025par0113	Mr. Flitz...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0026par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Immediately after the conquest of Istanbul, Fatih arranged an iftar meal for the scholars. His teacher Molla Gürani does not open his fast, even though it is time to declare. To his teacher who delays the slander, he says: "When has Mehmet, who has been forbidden, been lawful to eat?," he says: "When has he been made lawful to Mehmet? Is the people of your administration honoring such golden dishes with golden bowls of soup? What's with the show-off? If you're trying to look like the Byzantine emperors, know that it's ruined them. He must learn from it, and all the institutions of the state, especially Ashliah, and we must avoid luxury, luxury, luxury, etc., waste, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0025par0118	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0027par0120	Mr. President, it has been noted that there are expressions of child abuse in a book called the Emerald Apartment, which is shared on social media. The recent abuse of children in our country, the news of the murder burning our lungs, and the fact that such vile people have the courage to write a book has rightly brought people to the level of rebellion. It is understood that books, magazines, movies, and so on should be subjected to a stricter audit. In order to protect our children, we have to deal with mentally disturbed perverts and such twisted thoughts in every way. It is our nation's righteous expectation that such wicked and perverted people be punished in the most severe manner. In order for our generations to grow up healthy, our government, especially our educational system, has great duties to carry out. Again, there are huge tasks for families, NGOs, and our media. The one who betrayed his children, the one who persecuted his children...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0025par0123	Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0028par0125	Mr. President, the high-value MPs of the great Turkish nation have recently been competing on television channels for several programmes aimed at disrupting the Turkish family structure. The Muslim Turk is grateful for God's blessing, respect, and not to waste it, but 50 types of handles are used to insult the blessings at the table in TV-based food shows. This kind of program that feeds gossip, trial, corrupts the morality of our society. I wish from a nation that blows the bread off the ground and brings it to its forehead, that we become a society that insults the blessings on the table, that such programs be removed immediately, that programme producers do not act in fear of the number of monitoring, but make useful programs for their nation. Congratulations on the Kadir Night of the Turkish Islamic world and the Day of Ramadan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0025par0127	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the group's vice presidents who are demanding word. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0029par0130	Mr. President, our two soldiers, Lieutenant Rachit Aydın and Specialist Sergeant Mehmet Taşhan, were killed in the explosion of an improvised explosive device planted in the area by PKK separatist terrorists in northern Iraq. I pray for God's mercy to our soldiers, and I pray for patience with their families and our nation. The Capital Market Board has gone to organise the assets for the standard and money market funds in pension funds. As of July 31st, 25 per cent of the money market funds will be routed to state internal debt bonds, according to the regulation. We've been saying the economy's going bad, but we've seen the government take this step and the economy collapses. If the government is so trapped that the government can covet the individual pension funds that the worker has thrown away by his teeth, then the sea is finished. Instead of thinking about how to fix the economy when the situation is so dire, it's the worst thing anyone's ever done to the nation to still deal with the Istanbul elections. People don't care about choice, they're about livelihood. We urge the government to concentrate on the problems of livelihood as soon as possible. A decision was issued yesterday in the trial against the State to cancel the privatisation of the Tank Palet Factory in Sakarya. The prosecutor stressed that privatisation would not increase efficiency, arguing that the privatisation process would be cancelled. We find the prosecutor's debate correct. Since the first day we, as a good PARTI, have opposed privatisation of our national factories, it is not acceptable to the Qatars to sell a factory that is producing for the national defense of our country.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0030par0134	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0029par0135	I'd also like to say that at a time when the trial became political, we found this bold decision by the prosecutor very valuable. And we'll continue to be his followers until the trial is over. The day before yesterday, our commissioner and I, our former minister, had expressed our mutual opinion on the unemployment in Hoseli. He said there were 214 factories in 2002, and he said there were about 180,000 workers in the 214 factories, so if you look at those who employ an average of 900 workers per factory, there would have to be 20, 30, 50 factories, not 214, there would have to be a lot more factories there. But I'd like to talk to Mr. Secretary about the numbers instead of prolonging the issue. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Today, the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Kopeeli Chamber of Industry has made a statement regarding the unemployment numbers of Ayhan Oliveoglu Bey Kopeeli. In this statement, he points out an increase in the number of unemployed registered in Alexei. In 2018, the number of unemployed increased by 8,622, and in the first four months of this year 13.828. If the acceleration goes like this -- the increase from last year to five times -- is going to go up to 40,000. The head of the Industrial Chamber also stated that the local industrialist's request for employment for 12,351 could not be met. Even so, drawing pink paintings is useless, my friends. Let me give you this example as an industrialist from my own constituency, from this city, which was once the apple of the eye of the industry. Yesterday, at the request of the United States, another man was released. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] US citizen and NASA employee Serkan Shadow, who has been arrested in Turkey for nearly three years on charges of being a member of the Party of Turkey, has been released. Foreign Ministry spokesman Middlegus confirmed the release of the Shadow. Halavt, one of the Shadow's attorneys, said he predicted that his client might have been released, given the time he was in prison, but he did not receive official information. The seven-and-a-half-year prison sentence for the membership of Serkan Shadow was later reduced to five years by turning it into aid to the terrorist organization. The news of the release of Serkan Shayman has been said to have arrived shortly after the phone call made by President Erdogan and US President Trump. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's over, Mr. President. After Serkan Shayman, there is also Metin Topoz, a liaison from the U.S. Embassy in Istanbul, who asked for the release of the U.S. Embassy, and one other person. Now we ask you, who's next? What happened to our justice, our independence of the law, when we didn't act in the words of America? One phone call from Trump is sufficient for the release of those arrested for membership. I'll leave it to the public to appreciate it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0031par0146	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0032par0148	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Marine Lieutenant Rashit Aydın and Infantry Specialist Mehmet Taşhan were killed during the operation of our heroic army on Hakurk. I, too, have just given our condolences to the family of our living martyr, Rasit Aydın, in the village of Aleşesolak, Sakarya Province, and have joined the General Assembly in this way. I hereby ask the great God of our heroic martyrs, their families, their relatives, and the mighty Turkish nation for their condolences and patience. Mr. President, as you know, the legal services of the public administrations of Law No. 5018 are being carried out by public defenders on the basis of the Employment Act 4857, under the Law of State Officers No. 657. Although public defenders work under different laws that we consider above, the working conditions and issues of rights are common. Public law is at the top of a state's most sensitive issues. Both our state institutions and our lawyers have to reflect and transfer their knowledge, savings and experience into the present. However, due to the rights and conditions presented to our public defenders, the public defender's office is constantly losing blood.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0033par0152	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0032par0153	Our public defenders are transitioning to areas such as judgeship, prosecution and inspectorship. Today, especially in the country, for these reasons, the representation of public administration is being interrupted, or even impossible. Public law services are being offered by lawless executives and administrative officials. It is a matter of utmost importance and priority for our state's administration law that public defenders, who have moved from the past to present, are immediately on the agenda of their work and rights to be conducted in a permanent and healthy manner. We would like to say that the public defenders working under the above laws that we consider to be accepted in the career class, their educational status, their staff and positional titles should be granted the rights to severance, and that this should be increased, as special service compensation is lower than those with precedent training and qualitativeness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We, the National Movement Party, have made legal proposals for the removal of the victims of our public defenders. Again, as the National Movement Party, it would like to say that we are following the problems of our employees and civil servants who work in public institutions and institutions, such as their rights and pay injustice, and that we are doing all the necessary work necessary for the immediate implementation of the measures. Finally, tomorrow, I salute the Grand Assembly with respect to the Turkish nation, the Islamic world, the health, the peace, and the salutation of the Day of Ramadan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0034par0160	Mr. Survivor...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0035par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. We were amazed at yesterday's attempted child-infestation in Diyarbakir. The Kayapınar Children's Daycare School, which was built by Kayapınar Municipality and used as a daycare centre, is dedicated by the trustee to a quick, 25-year-old, free of charge, to the mufti. The allocation protocol on this place, which still serves as a day care centre, is cancelled at the May Assembly meeting of Kayapınar Municipality. The protocol cancellation is also reported to the relevant institution. Despite this legally binding decision, the mufti authorities are printing the daycare yesterday. They argue that the day care center was evacuated, that the families would take their children, that the day care centers and equipment of the daycare center were reserved for them. Talks with the sub-ops are inconclusive, and even the governor's bodyguards are arguing with council members in the day care building. My brother-in-law himself came to the nursery and said, "I am occupying this place." Although the court's way is clear against the city's decision, a children's nursery is being occupied using the government force. We don't view this invasion as just an occupation of municipal institutions, but it's also an attack on children's rights. We say, "Keep your hands off the people's will and children's hands off! " Such plunders are not limited only to Kayapınar Municipality. The new service building of Bismil City Hall, which cost 12m euros under the municipal budget, is being traded for the former Security Directorate building. A day after the election, the old police station collapses. Motive? They're going to build a public garden.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0036par0166	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0035par0167	In exchange for hiring one of the trustee's managers in another municipality, one of the managers is harassing women while the other one is taking the municipal parachutes with him like the property of his father. We've been publicly exposed to the fact that there's already been hundreds of thousands of grains in the world. The trustee doesn't end in displaying his skills. Mardin Municipality, which is owed $400m in debt, is billed for $1,350,000, with the food money of ministers coming to Mardin. Rented vehicles for ministers who come to the city for three hours are used for a week and billed for the municipality. So there's no limit to the thala. I also want to address another topic, dear friends, for days now, news of torture from Halfeti, Urbana, Ankara. 13 others were arrested yesterday.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0036par0170	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0035par0171	I am, Mr. President. One of them attacked me with clubs and kicks in front of the judge, electrocuting my body. They've done more, but I can't explain it because of the environment, so I'm ashamed. It's not just Halfeti, it's the same in Ankara. There are practices in custody that go up to about 100 people in sexual violence. Torture is unacceptable. I'd like to thank the Council to act on these statements as well, thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0037par0174	Dear Private...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0038par0176	Mr. President, we received several complaints from Tucson yesterday. There's a terrible painting in Tucson that the House needs to know about. Governor Tuncay Sonel was appointed mayor before the March 31st elections. When he was a trustee, he built the Manmeki Park near Munzur and gave a park in the park to Artukbey Coffee, a business. Then he lets this company invade places he's not given. After the mayor is elected, not by the president's own decision, but by the decision of the Tucson City Council, as trustees, the governor's municipality is processing the areas that are occupied by the government, and the governor of Tunceli is standing in front of the two police officers and having the police officers who have to do their job -- on their own orders -- put them on the ground and put them in reverse cuffs. He's unfairly allocated, he's devoted, he's trying to put down, he's trying to detain, he's trying to put down, he's trying to get the public police officers, he's trying to get those chairs out of the places that Artukbey Coffee is occupying, he's trying to get them out of there, he's trying to put them in reverse handcuffs, he's trying to get them in custody. Now, friends, the matter of trustee appointment, of course, is controversial. And then the tasks those trustees did, the choices they made, the consequences. There's city council; there's Communist Party in parliament -- there's CHP, there's HDP, there's AK PARTY. It is called to end the occupation by the city council. The governor is continuing his duties as trustee. It's a very suspicious thing to do anyway. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As an AK PARTY, aren't you going to look at these issues at all? Is this the kind of job that the governor does with the governor's authority? The Justice and Development Party... I mean, I don't have any hope that I'm going to say Minister of Internal Affairs, but what will Süleyman Soylu do, what will he do? I mean, really, it's another problem when one country's office is occupied by someone who's focused on other jobs, not so much. But at least let the AK PARTY take care of it. Social Security would explain their insurance statistics if they were three months behind, and so far -- like hours -- it hasn't gone wrong. Since when doesn't it? Mr. Secretary Colonel, since the day Mr. Colonel said that the loss of value in Turkish lira, that employment would improve, that March would be better than March, those statistics stopped, because neither better than March nor better than April. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Every day, each month's data denies the groom, Colonel. With this problem in the country's economy in the open, we're also wondering what is the will that doesn't explain this data to an institution like the NGO that should be out of politics? Mr. President, last but not least, we'd like to stress something here that we discussed yesterday. At this time today, the head of a party explains the Justice Reform Strategy Document. There's a lot of homework in it for the Parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. When you say "judgment reform," it's presuming, behind-the-back legal arrangement. You can't do it with a presidential decree. On April 16th, what we were saying: my brother, your work goes to the union of forces. He brings both the House and the judiciary to the command of the president of a party. Legislative authority cannot be shared. From now on, no more proposals, no more bills until you run them. We're going to live in lawmakers, we're going to be stronger. The ministers will not interfere, the execution will not interfere. Minister of Justice Abdulhamit Gul makes a statement, how his reforms have worked for nine months. Yeah, that's right, the old system was right, and it should have been, but this minister, this technician, this minister, can't give us a job, this minister, you can't give us a legislature, you can't throw it away. Look, on the other hand, one of the things we're going to talk about when he comes in is the alimony arrangement. Look at the news: the Department of Justice and the Ministry of Family -- it's in the papers today -- the Ministry of Justice advocates that the upper bounds of alimony should be limited to the year of marriage, and the Minister of Family maintenance... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0039par0189	Let's wrap this up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0038par0190	It's the end. He wanted the option that he could possibly have. Look, the bottom line is, we're gonna talk about it, we're gonna talk about it, the Justice Commission's gonna talk about it. There's a difference of opinion between two assigned technicians. What's the opinion of these MPs? You'll stand up for the motion. Whose signature will it be under? They treat you like a pencil master! They're treating us like finger trustees! The two ministers will decide, where they will give the form requirement to a few friends, and then the proposal will be defended by the Justice and Development Party to avoid even being touched. Yeah, that's not an insult, guys. Keep your oath, keep your duty. The system doesn't work, if it's blocked, it'll be fixed, the Constitution will be restored. If so, who are they, the two technicians assigned to negotiate your decision? What did you say at the referendum?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0040par0194	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0038par0195	My final word is, he's in a red-handed state, red-handed. If that's the case, Mr. President, they'll admit that it's been 51 to 49, the referendum, the debate of legitimacy. You said to the people: "The ministers will not bid. The people voted for him, the mighty Assembly." Well, it does, it's done, so don't let it go, and today's work is to admit that you cheated people both on April 16th and on the regular basis. Either the House will take care of itself, protect democracy, maintain the regime, or the only man-dominated Assembly of its era will not turn us into paralegals pretending to be MPs, taking wages, that's not the right job, let everyone take their place. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0041par0198	Of course!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0042par0199	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0043par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to put out the burning fire in our geography, to protect our country's national unity, to make our country, our nation, and our state a share of this land forever, our Mehmet is performing Operation Claw in the northern Iraqi Hakurk region. May the Lord not touch the foot of our Mehmet, and make our soldier victorious, as in the history of our glorious service. Of course, during these operations, six members of the traitorous terrorist organization have been neutralized, and two of our soldiers have been martyred, and we send them off to Rahman. May Martyr Infantry Lieutenant Rashit Aydın, Infantry Sergeant Mehmet Taşhan grant our martyrs Allah's mercy and patience to their families and to our beloved nation. Of course, if we want the unity and unity of this country, the brotherhood of this country, we have to do our duty, behind them, to our martyrs and veterans, who have shared the values of this country, to bear witness. May God make their place a paradise. Of course, with the blessings of Ramadan this week, we have had a successful working calendar. Today, I hope, we will complete the Law Proposal of 22 Articles for Changes in Some Laws and Codes of Laws Number 68. Again, we will carry out the international contract, which envisions co-operation between the government of Azerbaijan, the government of Georgia and the government of the Republic of Turkey and the international contract between the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, ranking 57. On the other hand, of course, the presidential government system, as it has written behind our Parliament, is a unconditional nation. With its understanding, the Parliament decides the final decision, the final word. Of course, at this point, everyone does their work in the legal arrangements made as a participant democracy. NGOs, associations, foundations, unions, and other relevant ministries, relevant general managers, who are on the subject of a law, do their own work. However, as we successfully continued this week, the political parties in parliament will negotiate the group and again work in agreement, as this week, and again the Supreme Assembly will decide the final decision. Finally, the end of the month of Ramadan, in which we comprehend the Night of Kadir, whose beginning is mercy, and the middle of which is forgiveness, and the end of which is salvation from the torment of Hell, and its term is better than a thousand months in the Qur'an. Let my Lord make our words known to those who are saved, and to those who understand the Night of Power. May he bring all the members of our beloved nation to the Festival of Ramadan in good health and in good health. With their families, with their neighbors, with their kin-to-laws, with all our MPs, with all our beloved nations, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0044par0207	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of the delegation of the Council of Representatives' European Affairs Commission to our country was approved by 15/5/2019 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers' decision and 16 of the Council of Ministers. The visits of the delegations to our country are submitted to the information of the General Assembly, according to Article 33620 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, but we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the law and other tasks from the Commission. We will resume our talks with İstanbul MP Nevzat Şıroğlu and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair Özlem Güzel and 61 MPs to make changes in the Law and Law Charter proposal and Plan and Budget Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Yesterday's merger was held in the motion of Article 12 of Article No. 68, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. There are two motions on the 12th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the amendment of Article 12 of Law Proposal 68, as follows. "The declarations of the State of Emergency have been changed to "Bahshili" (66) on the list of the 6th and 6th amendments of Article 1 of the Law on the Building of 130 Districts, dated 12-9/5/1990 and on the 1st Amendment of Article 3644. Ahmet Şık Erol Kadircıoğlu Ebrü Günay Garo Paylan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagpipes, Tulay Hatimlari Oğüç Ayşe Acar Başaran Hak Saruhan Oluç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0045par0238	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0044par0239	Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran wants to talk about the motion. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0046par0242	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on Article 12 of the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Laws under Article 68. Dear friends, of course we have a lot of criticism, a lot of suggestions about this law. Rather than general assessments, the name of a place is changed in Article 12, but another name has been discussed in public and under the roof of this Parliament for several days; the name of my subject and the hanging of the lecture sign. Of course, we don't think it's enough to argue here, to solve a 90-year-old history, to solve this problem here, but maybe why is my class being insisted on in class? I want to briefly express the meaning of the lesson. Dear friends, the sign in Dersim was not just a sign, nor was the name just a name. A 90-year-old history, again called Operation Lesson, from 1937 to 1938, but thousands of people were killed, thousands of people were replaced, books were subject to books, and there are still many issues left in history as a veil of mystery. According to many researchers, my lesson is actually a matter formulated by the formula 7T: Tedip (restraint), dikullah (distribution), taktil (distribution), representation (responsion), representation (responsibility), completion (responsibility), liquidation (responsibility). Imagine that one reason for this action was that it was considered civilizing, and my class was supposed to be civilized. But we do know that according to the standards now considered internationally, there was a massacre in Dersim. Still, as I was saying, thousands of people continue to live, torn from their own family, where they have never known, where they have never known. A few days ago, we'd like to remind those who reminded us of their grandfather under the roof of this House, dear friends. It's not a matter of reminding a massacre. Of course, in history, of course, there are massacres, genocides, sufferings, deaths in countries, but the point is to face history, to learn from that date and to create a truly compromise climate in the country. Here's the policy of assimilation that lies beneath a sign these days, the downloading of that sign, the policy of elimination. The download of that sign, in fact, is to add one more (T) to that 7T, and to say the expression of the tunceli, dear friends. Now, like I said, you can change the name of a place. Let's ask a class, and let's ask the people of my class, you won't get 90 percent of the people you see on the road, and you won't get an answer from Tunceli. 90 percent of them refer to themselves as "students. " Because those sufferings are still fresh, because what they experience remains fresh in their minds, in their grandparents' lives. Here, my dear friends, it's more about facing a date than a name. Both this Parliament and Turkey's peoples need to face this date in order to establish a common life and live in peace. Fear not names, friends; fear not reality, fear not history. In fact, refusing, ignoring has made this country what it is now. All the groups had expressed in their previous talks that it was my lesson, and that there was a massacre in Dersim, and that there was suffering in Dersim. This is not a matter of attitude, which can be changed conjuncturally. In that sense, seeing this reality, I think it's time to face the truth. Returning the name of my class to class will, in fact, carry a self-criticism and an apology to the people of my class. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0047par0250	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0048par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0047par0252	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0048par0255	Mr. President, in the history of Turkish history, what are the events that our nation must face?............. the slanders of those who want to accuse the Turkish nation of massacres, genocides. There's no way we're gonna take that as an innocent expression. The events of the past in Tucson are the measure of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, in which our new republic is trying to stand up, and that our government has taken every kind of act, every kind of unlawfulness, every kind of lawlessness, any understanding of the massacre, which will bring this state into distress, disarray at the time when it is trying to exist as a state.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0047par0257	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0048par0258	At this point, as we say from the past to the present, Seyit Reza is a feudal bandit, a terrorist. In this regard, we express that our government's attitude is also necessary as of that day. There may be lessons for us to learn from history. In history, they are always good; there may not always be victories; there may also be defeats and hardships in history. We'll learn from them, but if what we're talking about facing is slandering our past, insulting our past, and slandering our grandfathers into accusing them of a massacre, I'd like to say in the presence of our Parliament that we strongly reject it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0049par0261	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0050par0262	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0049par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. We've said it before and we've said it yesterday. If the President has to apologize on behalf of this state before, I'm sorry. When he said "I'm sorry," he actually accepted the massacre. In fact, it's about taking our statements, the statements in our speaker's speech, into the people of Turkey, using them as a slander to the people of Turkey, to deflect the issue a little bit. As a product of a dark mentality, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) movement, which Demirel considers the PKK as its 29th uprising, reveals that in fact in this issue, which is the same age as the Republic in Turkey, the Kurds went to demand the rights of the Kurdish issue at different times, and the state officials said that it was the same for the 29th time. So there was a riot. 29 times in this country, if there's been a rebellion or rebellion in the history of this country, you have to think about it.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0051par0268	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0049par0269	It's called Munzur's red flow. It's called the human massacre of 70 thousand people in my class. There's a documentary about the Lost Daughters, which means there's not only us but people talking about many parts of the world. So it's one of the most important problems in Turkey to accept it, to face history, to answer for it, instead of pulling it around like this. Don't let MHP try to pull it around. Anyway, don't scratch the past of yesterday's previous speakers. When you say "Don't scratch the past," there's something in the past that means "Don't cover it up, cover it up." He actually said that, in fact, he advocated a massacre. So don't let the deputy chief of the group get tired, and don't let him say there's been a class massacre all the time. I'm saying it's already been confessed in conversations, it's been accepted. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0052par0272	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0053par0273	Mr. President, you've seen a lot of me inviting various officers to do their job right from time to time. I didn't do my job well this time, so I asked him for his word. I was supposed to follow the speech, but at the time, there was something about the new clause in the law that was being discussed, Mr. Doğan Kubat and Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu talking for four or five minutes. But from the reaction and the words that have been taken, it appears that I have been given a speech where I should be paying attention and clarifying the position of our party. I've requested a report. I'm not going to say anything right now, but after the report, I'll make it clear as I see fit.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0052par0274	Yes, of course. Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0054par0277	Mr. President, we need to assess these riots, the attempted rebellions, the attempts, all of them separately in Turkey. There is no way in the history of the history of Turkish history that any understanding of riots or attempts against the state is incompatible with historical reality, linking it to a single ethnic basis. They may all have their own reasons, but if we're referring to the recent ones, whether it's British gold or his rifle, if someone's been activated as part of Turkey's plans to weaken in the fight against Mosul, Kerkuk, let them not try to describe the rebellion that those traitors have committed in our country, in our homes, in our 82 million people, on our brothers of Kurdish origin, who we've been nailing each other with meat.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0052par0279	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0054par0280	The people who have recently tried to take advantage of Turkey with America's gun, with their money, with their money, with their weapons, with their money, who are trying to act as a reaction to our Kurdish brothers, Kurdish brothers, are the ones who are subcontractors today, who are supposed to be doing good accounting for who are doing their jobs. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0052par0283	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0055par0285	Mr. President, it's clear there's a Kurdish problem in this country. It's always said that with the meat and the nails... here, Kurds are seen as nails, you cut them out.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0056par0287	The terror problem, the terror problem!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0055par0288	Don't talk! If you think so much of Turkey, people, Sakarya, if you think so much of Turkey...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0291	What the hell are you doing? Know your place!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0058par0292	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0293	This is our group president speaking, listen to him. Don't be rude!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0059par0294	Put your fucking hand down!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0295	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0059par0297	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0298	This is our vice president speaking, and you're attacking us from here.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0060par0299	Look, you guys throw all kinds of stuff out of there...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0061par0300	Congressmans, Mr. Group Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0301	Warn them first, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0061par0302	Dear friends, let's hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0304	No one here can tell us what's going on.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0062par0305	Put your finger down! Put your hand down!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0306	You put your hand down, you put yours down!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0062par0307	Behave yourself!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0309	You behave yourself! You're rude!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0063par0310	Ms. Meral... Ms. Meral, just a minute...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0057par0311	No, that's where they do their hand gestures!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0063par0312	Okay.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0064par0313	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0063par0314	Let me tell the MHP Group that this is not your group meeting hall, you cannot wave your hand and threaten HDP. In this parliamentary hall, there are constant threats coming down to the HDP, and every Parliament Speaker who runs this place is watching, and all the groups are watching. The HDP is not a party that will submit to your threats. The election is coming, the role you're referring to the election, it's milder, it's more nationalist, the target...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0065par0316	We're against everyone who's against the government.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0064par0317	Pack it up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0063par0318	... apply an approach that puts HDP on the target board as much as you want, HDP will not submit to it. Let me tell you this: since you love Turkey so much, the PKK has held 13 soldiers captive for four years, you don't even give their families an appointment and order a cup of tea. Is this patriotism?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0066par0320	To hell with the PKK!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0063par0321	The families are at your door, you refuse. Why don't you do something to save those soldiers? If those soldiers have been crawling there for four years, if the families are moaning here, why don't you find a cure?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0066par0322	The Turkish soldier won't crawl, the Turkish soldier will be victorious everywhere. Who's crawling!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0063par0323	You grabbed AKP's hair and grabbed AKP's...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0067par0325	Enough, enough! Are you going to say anything to them now, Mayor?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0068par0326	What a threat! We're being threatened!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0069par0327	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0070par0328	President, we have a threat here.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0071par0329	Dear President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0069par0330	Wait a minute... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0072par0332	No one can use the expression of the Turkish soldier!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0069par0333	Mr. Olcay...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0073par0334	I'll answer it. Excuse me.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0069par0335	The vice president of the group wants a word, folks. Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0074par0337	You're the one who's using the military, that's what I mean. You've just apologized again, you've apologized again. We've said it over and over again, the House isn't a place for condolence. Come on, let's find a solution, guys, let's find a solution.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0075par0338	We'll find him, we'll find him.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0074par0339	It doesn't work, it's called the 29th rebellion, it's called the death of 50,000 people, it's called the 40th year of time.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0076par0340	Our boys are looking for a solution to Hakurk.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0074par0341	Come on, let's figure this out. I say the democratic solution to the Kurdish problem should stand before this House as its duty, thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0077par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0078par0343	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0077par0344	Mr. President, we need to...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0079par0345	Don't you have any objections, Aydemir?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0080par0346	We do, we do.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0081par0347	Wait a minute, guys, don't make a big deal out of it, guys. We're here to lead the House in a very good way, in harmony.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0082par0349	Why don't we have a chat while someone's talking?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0081par0350	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0083par0351	And you're leading by side.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0081par0352	I'm saying it for everyone.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0084par0353	We're being threatened from behind, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0085par0354	Who's threatening you?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0084par0355	You, you do!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0085par0356	Look at your finger, your finger!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0084par0357	You're like this, always with the hand!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0085par0358	You're doing the same thing! Behave yourselves!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0086par0359	Mr. Olcay...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0087par0360	Now let's pack up and pack up. Excuse me, fellas.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0088par0361	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0089par0362	It's a shame! Shame on you! Get a grip on yourself! Do you think this is the middle of nowhere?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0087par0364	Olcay sir... friends, let me talk to him.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit01spe0090par0365	Friends, members of lawmakers... I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, fellas.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0090par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 68. The commission is in place.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0091par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0090par0005	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0091par0007	Mr. President, I'd like to put it to you about what just happened with the polemics. First of all, of course, there may have been a series of unwanted words or tensions between the lines, but there is always the effect that the views expressed from the podium have on the tension of the environment. There has never been any abuse against the Nationalist Movement Party in person, but we are deeply troubled by the fact that these statements against my nation, my Turkish nation, are expressed in such a way in this parliamentary platform, that they have not expressed our common values, our history, or any of the crimes described in any way in history, or any of the crimes described in any way in history.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0092par0011	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0091par0012	We're with the Turkish soldier to the end of our army, worrying about the trouble of our army. But now, I'll tell my master, that someone has fallen into the hands of the PKK, our soldiers, they've been crawling with these words, such as giving them tea, accusing us of not being there for our soldiers, with a contingencies and election investment, which has hurt our hearts, we don't accept it, we reject it violently. The National Movement Party is not a political party focused on elections at any point in its life, but because there are elections, we don't give up on what we think is right. Are we going to stand up and let you insult this nation, this history, and block our ears because there's an election? Of course we'll answer. At this point, no one should expect the National Movement Party to take a passive stance, but to confuse our nation...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0092par0014	Let's wrap this up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0091par0015	I'm picking it up. ...the provocation of our nation, the chaos of Turkey, I know that you have no concern at all. At this point, we've been well-tracked by the activities of your former presidents, but the National Movement Party, 82 million Turkeys, will make sacrifices today and will continue to show, as in every period of its life, in order for them to be at peace, not to get into chaos, not to fall into each other. We will not come to these games as nationals by Allah's permission, and I say that all 82 million people living under the roof of the Republic of Turkey are Turkey, and that we hold them all in our laps, and that we will never, ever, ever, ever allow them to be in terror centers.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0093par0018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0094par0019	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0093par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. What I'm saying is, they've been saying that the PKK has had it for four years... the families came yesterday, the families said that. Families are perperious. Do you know if a man has been taken prisoner for four years, if he's been held captive, what else does he do, what he does, what he does, what he eats, what he drinks, what he eats, what he's alive, what he's dead, what he does? I've been in touch with this, my dear President. Like I said, there's no need to take this around. Again, I refuse to admit that they can't stand the fact that we're sitting here on this bench expressing these things freely. Is this chair something that's in the monopoly of the MPP?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0095par0024	I'm saying we'll answer.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0093par0025	We'll give it to him, you give it to him.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0095par0026	Okay, I'm saying we'll answer.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0093par0027	We give, you give.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0096par0028	Let's not do anything mutual. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0093par0030	They can't imagine for themselves if we have any concerns about Turkey.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0096par0032	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0093par0033	We say that we, the HDP, are here as a party that considers Turkey's unity, unity, brotherhood, future, and is paying heavy prices on this issue, and we will continue to say that. Syed Reza would not have been like this: It is not right to call him a bandit.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0097par0035	He's a terrorist!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0093par0036	Seyit Reza is the Kurdish grandfather. We kiss the hands of our grandfather, we remember him with gratitude. We'll keep asking where our grandfather's grave is, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0098par0040	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 12 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment to the Law of Number 635 and to some 68 of the Laws that are in session. With all due respect. Ali Öztunç Inspiration Özcan Aygun Mustafa Adıl Serkan Topal Özcan Special Rafet Zeybek ADADDE 12-9/5/1990, and Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Law on the Building of 130/44, have been changed to the name of the Supreme Court of Law (66) on the list. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0099par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0098par0051	Anthalya MP Rafet Zeybek wants to talk about the motion. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0100par0055	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The 12th article of the law proposal I have been promised envisions the change of the name of our Bahshili district to the name of Bahşlı. Our Bahshili district has been spoken for two days, and it's been understood enough; yes, that change was also true. That's why our country has other problems, and I want to talk about them. Dear lawmakers, our country has serious problems, serious problems. There's a problem with economics, there's a problem with democracy, there's a problem with law, there's a problem with justice, there's a problem with education, there's a problem with foreign policy, but unfortunately, there's no solution to these problems; problems aren't solved, they're getting deeper. Of course, one of our biggest problems is justice. Justice is dying, dear lawmakers. We all know that if justice is over, the government will collapse. The Supreme Election Board's decision to renew the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor's election is openly against the law. With this decision, the law has suffered the greatest injury of the last years. This decision will be written as a black mark on Turkish legal history. In recent days, Mr. President and Mr. Bululi Yıldırım have been talking about stealing, stealing votes. My dear friends, the vote was not stolen in Istanbul; if you insist on stealing, a crime has been committed. If you say so, it is a crime which is far greater than stealing.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0101par0059	How'd it go from 26,000 to 13,000?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0100par0060	We will, we will.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0102par0061	God knows the truth, and the liars.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0103par0062	You're the one who's got it, the gash.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0100par0063	See, valued lawmakers, the will of the election has been declared, Mr Ekrem Imamoglu's rights have been imposed; that's how history will write it.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0104par0064	Binali Yıldırım agreed that it wasn't stolen.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0100par0065	In the referendum held in 2017, despite the open decree of Election Law 298, the Supreme Election Board and its ballots were valid at the end of the vote. The law said that it was invalid. We made this decision to ensure that the State's will was granted. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, the irregularities in 108 crates, which have been attempted to advance on the grounds by seven members of the Supreme Election Board, are leading by the EC PARTY, the 1st party in 108 crates. I'm asking Mr. Bakili Yıldırım, did you steal from these crates? I'm saying it wasn't done.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0104par0069	And he said yes, and he said yes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0100par0070	Again, in the 754 chests, the presidents weren't officers. Yes, he wasn't a civil servant, but 532° of these poll presidents are teachers, teachers in private schools, teachers in colleges, teaching all of our children. Now, are these thieves?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0105par0071	Not a civil servant, not a civil servant.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0106par0073	Pick it up, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0100par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, don't bother, there's no theft here. I just want to say, come on, it's a shame, it's a sin. At least don't fool people in the holy month of Ramazan. We're teaching democracy today. Democracy will win and everything will be fine. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0107par0078	Mr. Special, do you want a word?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0108par0079	No, sir.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0107par0080	Okay, fine. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. For a long time, there are those who want to speak according to 60. Mr. Sevkin, please.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0109par0088	Mr. President, hundreds of thousands of contract officers working in the public office have been promised before, but there is no position. Contractors approaching 500,000 are trying to support their families with low wages, without family integrity and job security. In the 2011 elections, 234,000 contractors have been promised a staff, and since then, no contract holder has been granted this right for eight years. On the other hand, there is no staff, but there is also the presence of workers who have been laid off in city hospitals. The book on pedophilia, which has been on the agenda for several days, is not enough. This Parliament has another responsibility: our children must no longer be abused, we must carry out this responsibility as Parliament. I'm saying women's harassment, rapes, child molestation should stop now. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0110par0091	Mr. Sullu...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0111par0093	In our country, around 18,000 children under the age of 18 have to go back to the injection, because diabetes is not covered by payment by the Insulin pump and the SGK, which can facilitate the treatment process. The sensors of the insulin pump are $825 per month, and the cost of a month is a thousand lira. A child who can't use an insulin pump has to punch a finger 12 times a day, but the SGK doesn't pay for the device used for finger measurement. The SGK difference for finger measurement strips has also increased. The monthly use of a diabetic is about six boxes, paying only $19.5 euro for the box, which is $58. The box of needles attached to the Insulin pen is $36.70, and SGK pays $25.50.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0110par0095	Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0112par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. In the army and Giresun bows, destruction was decided in 2017, including over a hundred-year-old buildings from his grandfather's father, including those who took advantage of the zoning pardon and invested their money in the zoning pardon. The army and the Giresun plateaus are now in total destruction. We'd like to review this. If the buildings are concrete, we say it's okay, but we don't think it's right that these buildings that they've been using for fifty-sixty years were destroyed for farming. This says to be reviewed, thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0110par0099	Mr. Ersoy...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0113par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. The date of May 31 was declared World Without Tobacco Day by the World Health Organization in order to raise awareness of the health and other dangers of the use of tobacco products, give awareness to those who use tobacco products and improve their health behavior. Tobacco use is at the top of risk factors for both men and women in terms of heart disease, strokes, high blood pressure and vascular disease. The risk of heart disease for smokers is greater than those who don't. These risks include all age groups, including young ones. I say the only way to have a good time with your loved ones is to be healthy, and I wish for a world without tobacco. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0114par0106	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0115par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Last Sunday, both Amasya (Amasya) and Tekirdağ (Tekirdağ) were full and flood damage. That's why I wish our farmers well. We demand immediate support for our farmers as soon as possible. Again, I wonder if the province of Tekirdağ is still within the austerity measures of power, even though the Cementdere and the Eyeless Dam ponds in Malkara and Süleymanpaşa are under contract. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0116par0112	Mr. Unsal...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0117par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Following the March 31st local elections, several major cities were discovered with documents of major corruption in district municipalities over the years, proven. In response, slander campaigns against our municipalities and our presidents have increased. Mr. Mansur, the mayor of Ankara, is making an attempt on the privatized CENTGAZ to create a negative perception for Sever. The article sent by the PresidentGAZ to its subscribers says that the number of subscribers that have been going on for years will be changed and that for this mandatory change, there will be $500 from Ankara residents. With this practice, which has nothing to do with Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, and has nothing to do with Mansur Süson, he collects the price of city counters for citizens. The perception is intended to be created. However, this decision has nothing to do with the city. We will continue to inform our Ankara citizens, our citizens, about these smearing and creating perceptions.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0116par0116	Mr. Borrower...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0118par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2019, the International Leukemia Children's Week was set as 28 May 31 May to highlight the importance of giving material spiritual support to people and their families who were treated for leukemia as a society. World public opinion is organised around the world to draw children's attention to the phenomenon of cancer, to raise awareness of growing childhood leukemia and other cases of cancer, to share experiences, to create common solutions, and to warn them of possible dangers that cause cancer. Each individual with a social responsibility must bring the matter to the attention of its environment and raise awareness of its surroundings in order to ensure that it is informed. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0119par0121	Dear lawmakers, I'd appreciate it if you didn't want to speak according to 60 ▪ in order to reach Ramadan in order to reach iftar. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 13th and 22nd article. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş will speak on the second part of the proposal. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0120par0131	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the second chapter, yes. We're dealing with a classic bag of law. It's a painting we meet before every election. And we didn't have a little election, and before every election, we actually got involved with the same bag of laws, we had conversations. And this package is no different than the others, so we're looking at a large bag of election investments. So there's another Istanbul bridge pardon for the content that I'm going to pass through with just one example. I mean, how do we put this? The Istanbul election will be held on 23 June. The power brought another bridge pardon to win the election. There's really no solution, but I'd like to repeat over and over again that we don't find these types of approaches to make citizens vote as a party, in cosmetic ways, in make-up methods. What this country needs is not a bag of laws; it really needs to identify problems, analyze economic problems, and take appropriate measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we just had another unfortunate discussion. I've been in this Parliament for the third term, and we've really had the same kind of discussions over a dozen, hundreds of times. The bottom line is, I'm actually in a different position, but I can't get past that. Mr. Group Vice President, I listened very carefully, I just took a few notes. He said: "Be careful what you say on the stand. This is the first sentence. Of course, we will respond to your insults in history. Let no one expect us to be passive. I took this three sentences, and there was no need for the rest, that was the essence. First of all, we're all lawmakers here, no one, no one, no one is any different from the rest of us. We're all elected by the public vote; we go to the chest, we tell our thoughts, we tell our ideology, we tell our party's approaches, we get votes and we get out of the chest. Moreover, this issue of getting out of the chest does not occur under the same conditions and equitable circumstances for all of us. I don't need to tell you what was done so that we don't get out of the trunk, so that the People's Democratic Party doesn't cross the dam, and the polls don't count, so I don't have to tell you what was done to keep the box from getting voted. One example is enough; at the moment, our former co-Chairs, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ and Denizlahattin Demirtaş, are still in prison, being held hostage, not arrested. After June 7th, November 1st and in the process so far, efforts to bring us in line continue with the same methods: arrests, arrests, threats, pressure. It's not enough out there, and now we're trying to get in line with the General Assembly. We don't accept it, we never accept it. Each party has its own ideology, and we have our own party principles, just as the National Movement Party works according to its own schedule and believes in them. So we don't back down a mile from defending them on the stand, and we don't come in here and say that just to be polite to someone, just to be propaganda. As for the matter of paying attention to our words, we know very well how we speak our words. But be careful what you say. The background is: You're telling us that, in fact, I'm a Kurdish woman, my native language is Kurdish, I grew up in Kurdish culture, I'm from Mardin, I've studied Diyarbakır, I've been a lawyer in Diyarbakır, my mother doesn't speak Turkish, maybe most of them don't know Turkish. Now you're telling me to reject the language. You're telling me to reject the mother tongue. If you say three sentences on the stand, I'll pass it as (X). How can I accept that? As a human being, as an individual, is it possible for me to accept that? The other one is one, you say. We, the HDP, insist on saying that not everyone is single, everyone is different. We're a pluralist party. Our group is a party that has the most identity, language, faith, and gender of Turkey in terms of the equality of men and women. We come with that principle. I am Kurdish, I am Armenian, I am Lazāsam, I am Laz. Are we to say otherwise because someone here told us to? Of course not. They're telling us that we're like meat and nails. Yeah, well, we don't want to be meat and nails. We want to be equal, equal! We don't want to be fingernails anymore! You've been telling us the same story for a hundred years. We're not meat and nails!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0121par0137	Did I say Kurds are nails?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0120par0138	We want to be equal; we want to live in this land as citizens of the Republic of Turkey, with our own language, culture, faith, gender, and life. That's exactly what our struggle for democracy is. They tell us: "You can't live in your culture either. " Under this roof, we had a very unfortunate conversation last week. Mr. MHP MP said, as he said, "Those who try to make correspondence in other languages besides our native language should see the state's bronze hand at once." Everyone should know their place. Those who call us Dersim, we give you what happened to your grandfathers, they say, on this stand. None of you knows my lesson. As someone who's gone a hundred times, as someone who has thousands of learned friends, I have to say, in law and in high school, they've all grown up with stories of their grandparents' massacres. They're looking for Syed Reza's grave. You can't make my class into a tunceli. Seventy thousand people have fallen to the ground, yet still, go make a referendum, over 90 percent of the people in my class say, "This is my lesson." With these threats, we will bring upon you what happened to your grandfathers. It is a freedom of democratic thought. If he's on this stand, but when we express any thought out there, we're being threatened with jail and immunity. Now, I'm pretending I didn't hear the threat to our native language, and I'm really pretending I didn't. It is not for any man to speak of my mother tongue or your mother tongue. The mother tongue is non-negotiable, we take our language from our mother. We live in this country together, and to continue living together, we have to solve these problems with a democratic constitution. With this language, we haven't solved a problem in a hundred years. And our most important strategic approach is that we want to live in this country as a democratic constitution, as an equal and free citizen, not as brothers and sisters, but as brothers, not as nails, but as brothers. That's our whole struggle. And watch your words when we're on this stand. We don't hear what they're saying because we're used to it; we're used to it. We know where this came from. The other meaning of this is racism; it also means trying to suppress the opposition with the methods of fascism, but the HDP really isn't a party that would accept and move on with a theory created outside the truth. He said, Mr. Group Vice President, that there is a date, but history is not the only one. Let's read Dersim. Let's read the Kurdish issue from different sources; let's read the history of Kurds from different sources; and let's try to find out what date is correct, and what is not true, instead of discussing them together; it's our duty in Parliament. What 81 million citizens expect from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not to fight here with the same memorizations, the same patterns, the same approaches. As the HDP Group, we have never attempted fights; be assured, we have always been attacked, we have always been attacked. In the Constitutional Commission, lawmakers of the 25th and 26th century know that violence has been inflicted on our MPs in the issue of the removal of immunity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0122par0144	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0120par0145	We haven't forgotten that Mr. Mahmut Toğrul, our member of the Gaziantep MP, broke his arm when I was here last semester, when I was the deputy leader of the group. We've been attacked many times here, and we'd really expect from our fellow MPs: wouldn't 10 people of at least 100 reject these approaches to HDP? Even if there's nothing, we're working ten hours here, we're arguing. But remember, the HDP, really, is the common future of all of us. HDP opinion -- all of you may not be HDP people -- but the policy, the strategy that HDP put forth, can lead Turkey to bright tomorrows; it can lead to our children growing up in a happy, peaceful, healthy environment. Let's put aside our narrow perspectives and have a real discussion on the democratic solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0123par0148	Does he believe that?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0124par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0125par0150	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0124par0151	Mr. President, there's racism and persecution. I'd like to speak of the bench, sir.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0125par0152	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0124par0156	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we are firstly denying all of the HDP MPs' statements regarding the issues they just expressed regarding our party. In his speech on the assembly stand, he has literally distorted our ideas, the issues that we express. We've expressed the issue of silence on the council stand in response to the fact that I didn't leave it unanswered. We certainly have an answer to your words, the Republic of Turkey, the state of Turkey, the Turkish history, our nation, our spiritual sanctity, all our values, our values, our system, as a political party that carefully pays attention to it, to every word that we think involves insulting them. We said we wouldn't accept it, and I don't think there's anything wrong with that. And I'm making it very clear that we're not going to be passive. And what answer was given to him in this House when you were actively making it into the proceedings of the High Assembly? Tomorrow, when our children look at it, God willing, someone has not left it unanswered. And God willing, let no one have any doubts about it. Be careful what you say. The expression is not a threat. It is our right, of course, to repeat statements that would insult our history, our past, from the Parliament's bench, to say that your assessments of Turkey's borders with the Misakimillimil are statements that will divide, break Turkey's common history. Again, you distorted the congressman's statement regarding the use of the native language. "I use my mother tongue," he says. He says, "I'm using my mother tongue." He says his correspondence, and that's his expression. So the official language of the state of the Republic of Turkey is Turkish. No one should attempt to act on the basis of a constitutional decree.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0126par0161	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0124par0162	I'm ending it, Mr. President. The official language of the state of the Republic of Turkey is Turkish. His native language is something else. At this point, I object to all your claims and all your statements at the point of persecution in this country because you were oppressed and persecuted in every way, just because you were born Kurdish. Everyone in the Republic of Turkey is equal to Turkey. No one can object to that. This is a very important statement. Again, you're trying to make racism and fascism out of what we're saying here, and you're doing the real racism, the real showmanship, the other thing. (Applause from MHP rows) There's nothing natural about it. In Turkey, we are always defending Turkey's unity and brotherhood, in favor of Turkey's unity and integrity. You're saying that you're being persecuted for defending your cultural rights, not because of your demands for cultural rights or cultural rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0127par0167	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0124par0168	I'm going to get up and plant that baby killer yesterday. You know his statements? He's sitting on our backs to the PYD. He's saying that that's the issue of the Turkish nation's opposition to the state of Turkey, the Turkish state and the Turkish nation, that you don't condemn bloody baby killers, that you don't recognize them as a terrorist organization. That's all we want to say. I respectfully say that we will continue our struggle, that we will not hold back from telling the truth about this matter, that we will continue to fight.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0128par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0129par0172	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0128par0173	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, you're doing racism and fascism.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0129par0174	Shall I open your seat?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0130par0175	No, I didn't...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0129par0176	Go ahead, go ahead, but let's not do this anymore.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0130par0177	No, I won't.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0131par0178	Mr. President, I need you to...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0132par0179	The president knows how to run it, my friends, don't worry.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0133par0180	The president knows, he's running it well. The president runs fair.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0134par0182	Mr. President, to be honest, the last group to be accused of racism and fascism is the Democratic Party of Peoples. Racism and fascism, please, let's all read it again.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0135par0183	You read it 10 times.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0134par0184	What's racism? What is fascism? What is his political background, how is it shaped, and how has this found life in Turkey, especially now? That's why I'm smiling about it, I think it's just an answer. The other issue, especially our co-Chairs, is as a lawyer who reads all the case files of our friends, our friends, who are still being held hostage by the coup d'état on November 4th: right now, in all the media, they're all referred to as e-fragman- and they don't have any of them in the case file. I'll give you one example. Every day he tells the co-chairs: "You sent money, you helped the organization, you helped the organization like this. I said, I called lawyer friends, so send me these indictments, and I know it doesn't exist. I'll give you one example. Mr. Gültan Kışanak, the Co-Chair of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, please read the file of Mr. Gültan Kışanak, with the responsibility of an MP, no claim; let alone the crime, let alone the monopoly, let alone the decision, there is no claim. He was fined for his speech, sentenced for his press release. There's no corruption, no corruption, no bribery, no embezzlement, nothing about the city. Case files on all of our other mayors are the same. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0136par0188	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0134par0189	Mr. Figen is also part of the freedom of thought and expression of our fellow lawmakers regarding Demirtaş, and all of them will return from the European Court of Human Rights, and we will see that in the near future. This is just a periodical, conjunctural approach to the opposition, one of the methods of regression of HDP, silence of opposition, suppression. Yesterday they were sentenced to death by the 1960 coup, and in the 1980 coup, the MPs were sent to the Chainbreaker, and in 1990 they were sent to the Ulicans, and today they were sent to Edirne and Kandira, and that's the difference.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit02spe0136par0191	I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0136par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 68. The commission is in place. Ankara MP Durmiş Yilmaz will speak on behalf of the group. Here you go. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0137par0011	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, I have been promised to give you my opinion on the second chapter of Law Proposal 68. I salute you all. The opposition lawmakers who came here before me said, one after another, that this bag of legislation should be waived, but the power continues to make a bag of laws. Two thousand years ago, we continue to make bag laws in 2019, after the Roman right to rule as a legal methodology, in which we continue to make a bag of laws, and we continue to discuss the bag law as the basic law. Perhaps a century ago, after the codifications conducted by Ahmet Cevdet Pasha and his friends, including 1,850 or so, the law methodology revealed by Mecklelle. I think the generations who came after us will not remember this practice as good, and they will not even hesitate to call you a good law architect. They will not even call you a lawmaker. For him, we wish that we could give it up, but it's become clear that we're not going to give it up. There's a ten-minute window, and I may not be able to keep up with what I have to say, but I won't be able to tell you. Yesterday was the anniversary of Istanbul's conquest, and many things were said on this occasion. When Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror decides to take Istanbul, what kind of society will I act with? Who's behind me? To find the answer to the question, "Who will support me?" -- the story is that Edirne goes to a shop in Edirne, where he gets something he needs, or even doesn't need; and when he tries to get a second one, the shopkeeper says: "I did it, go to the side, he didn't do it." Now, in a society like this, today, as a constitutional state, they're taking advantage of the help we've given to the backward citizens, the somewhat disadvantaged part of their citizen, the constitutional right to social benefits, even though our people don't deserve it. For example, he buys coal, sells it on the free market. From the society structure that says, "I did it, I didn't do it next door." Today, we become a community of people who are helping out for political favor and selling it to the market, even though they don't deserve it. He can't say, if he's right, if I don't deserve it, there's more needy people down the street or my next-door neighbor needs it, go give it to him. Someone has to be responsible for this. Why did this community come here? If this is the reality of today, is it a myth, a story made up in the society of the Conqueror? If this mythology is correct, what is our current situation? Who's going to explain it, how? What moral order, what social order, what policy did this to our people? Please, one of you come out and answer that. If moral philosopher Nurettin Gunner had written his books today in the 1950s, in the 40s, I'm sure he would have said something very different today. So, a friend of yours from the AK PARTY group came here to explain why these people came here, why this rottenness, why this decay, why it has come to this point, and why it has come to this point. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] In a general assessment of my economy at the General Assembly last week, I said: Now, the economic problems facing Turkey today have become a system issue, and it is not possible to go over this issue without the system problem being resolved. I still insist on saying the same thing. A moment ago, the system is really blocked and the system is not working, acting on what our friend, the CHP group's deputy leader, said about the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Family, the Minister of Labor and Social Services. So I don't think this systemic problem can overcome these problems that Turkey is facing without being resolved. The minister said there's a balance in the economy. So as a result of this balancing, it seems that a light appeared at the end of the tunnel. In fact, the Minister did not say what this visible light was, what economic data it moved from, which economic data it analyzed, which light appeared at the end of this tunnel. Is this real economic production, industrial production, capacity usage, growth, sir, banking issues? From the index of expectations and so forth... using and analyzing what economic data... did he say there was light at the end of the tunnel? If you accept light and believe it, please come here and explain to us what kind of economic data you see this light using. Apparently, Mr. Secretary got on a balancing train, and unfortunately, he fell asleep on this train he was on; he fell asleep in a dark tunnel, and when he woke up in that tunnel, he couldn't see around. Unfortunately, it's the right thing to do. Tomorrow at ten, in less than 24 hours, the first quarter growth figures in 2019 will be announced. In these figures, you'll see that the economy will shrink again, as it did in the last quarter of 2018. When we look at the years -- let me just give you two digits -- in 2014, the Industrial Production Index was plus 9.8 percent, which was 8.7 percent growth. It's very famous, and in exchange for the 7.4 per cent growth in the year 2018 you say at every opportunity, the Industrial Production Index is 4.4 per cent. Industrial Production Index minus 5.7 in the first quarter of 2019. That means, you'll see tomorrow, the economy will grow minus. So moving from here, there's no light or anything. You delay the measures that need to be taken, and so you increase the burden on society more and more. A year and a half ago, if you had taken the necessary measures, this problem could be solved with $35 or 40 billion, which is now near 70 to 80 billion dollars, and if you were to delay, it would increase even more. You can deny it, it's not like that. You can say it, but the numbers are there. I couldn't say what I was going to say, anyway. I see it there, I've got a minute left. What I'm going to say is that economic policies don't exist in space, they need a framework. There's no frame for that right now. In our economy, there's a five-year development plan in the framework of economic policies, because in the five-year development plan, you have to guide the industry, the merchant, the businessman, the people who are at risk and taking risks, but as of today, we're about to enter the sixth month of the year, and it's still not yet in place of the Tenth Annual Plan, which covers the year 2014-2018. How will you guide and guide the industry, the merchant, the businessman, the productive cut? From here, there's a three-year program as a mid-term program, and there's short-term programs. Now, this was adopted on July 2, 2013 at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. So this programme, covering the 2014-2018 years, came into effect six months ago by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but there is still no plan for 1 1 1.5 years of development. Depending on this, the medium-term program cannot be made. What are you doing? You take short-term financial measures, encourage each other. These incentives have exhausted the economy's productive capacity, its competitive capacity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You've made the industrialist, the merchant, the businessman dependent on the government, and these people are having trouble making decisions.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0138par0027	Congressman, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0137par0028	I'm picking it up. Therefore, the Law must be carried out on the implementation of Development Plans 3067 and the preservation of its integrity; you can't avoid it, you don't have to avoid it, because economic policy does not exist in space. Right now, a decision in the morning, a decision in the afternoon, then change it. And from here, we see that we're changing the law that we made three months ago today. Why? Because there's nothing to see in front of us. You have 2023, 2050, 2071 targets. Why does a delegation that can't predict 2071, 2050, can't predict a five-year period, can't reveal a number of data about it, can't guide it, can't talk about 2071, can't talk about 2050? There is no longer a target called 2023. If you keep a bird in your mouth, if you don't grow up by 30 per cent a year, it's impossible for Turkey to meet its 2023 goals four years later. But if it's a political goal, I can't say anything about it, and he'll go into reading political intent, and I'll leave it to the High Council's discretion. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0139par0033	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0140par0034	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0139par0037	Mr. Orator has asked Sultan Mehmet Mehmet of the Conqueror to answer our group on historical change and transformation today. I don't want to go too far, it's called historical sociology.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0141par0038	I've never heard such an expression. ▪ Can you describe historical sociology?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0139par0039	What we call historical sociology is that personal activities and organized structures have been built consciously over time. For him, the request of the 17-year-old AK PARTY power to answer the full change and transformation over the past five hundred years represents the magnitude of his expectations from the EC PARTY and from the Cumhur Alliance, which we are now in alliance with. Hopefully, we will carry out this great expectation with the support we receive from our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0141par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0139par0042	There's no bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0142par0043	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0141par0044	We want to know what this historical sociology means in terms of the enlightenment of the assembly, to benefit from the vast knowledge of your honor. I'd be very happy if he could explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0143par0046	I explained it in terms of historical sociology.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0144par0047	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0145par0048	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0143par0049	Historical sociology, personal activities on the one hand...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0146par0050	Blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0143par0051	...on the other hand, it's the event that organized structures have consciously built over time.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0147par0052	Don't make us laugh on fasting, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0146par0053	That's bullshit.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0148par0054	It's in writing.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0149par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0148par0056	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0149par0058	Very briefly, I would like to say to the deputy leader of the group: Yesterday was the anniversary celebration of Istanbul's conquest. When you enter, don't touch anyone's property, I'll distribute the spoils." A man who had been so generous as to say, against such a place he had conquered, he should have been invited to the ceremony of the conquest of Istanbul, where Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror had received the victory anniversary, and the elected Republican People's Party mayors were not invited, let alone Ekrem Imamoğlu; and he should have been invited. If you call the Istanbul people's play the national will, we will bow with respect to the national will in Silivri, which has voted for the DP -- the people in Bakırköy and all your municipalities. If you do not invite our mayors to the anniversary ceremony of the city conquered by Fatih, then you do not understand Fatih's (F). [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0148par0064	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Nihat Yeşil will speak. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0150par0068	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all with the greatest respect of the House. I have made a general commitment to the amendment of some Laws and Laws Act 68. Before I begin my speech, congratulations on our Junior League club, and I wish you all the best. Dear friends, all our orator friends have just spoken of problems on this stand, such as the bag of legislation is of no use to this country. Two thousand years ago, the beloved speaker, who has been present since Roman law -- has just mentioned it -- and as long as you do not maintain the superiority of democracy and law, which is the only mechanism the AKP has been sheltered in, we will discuss it more. Dear friends, after the June 24th elections, we all remember the exit of the ruling party in which the men of law and execution will be separated by sharp lines. The ruling party at the time, bringing this freakish idea of governance, was committed to the community with a sense of separation and democracy as a goal of its own, and that they would be sensitive to the bag of laws. However, we've been forced to discuss an extremely irregular bag of law enforcement. Why did we discuss the answer to the question, "Why is the law technically not a proper practice? " In this bag, which has been submitted to the Commission under 20 articles, has been adopted by the Commission as 22 articles, there are 13 laws and two amendments to the law. Our country feels the economic crisis deeper and deeper every day. The finances are getting further and further away from their end-of-the-year goals in terms of revenue and expense balance. We have already exhausted 65 percent of the budget deficit as we are about to fill five months of the year. So, in such an environment, what are we taking on with this bag arrangement, when our Parliament, our country's concerned institutions, should be working harder than ever? We're changing the name of a town, we're recognising corporate tax exemption to a return capital business, we're organizing the disciplinary legislation of TRT. That TRT is an institution that is controversial about everything with its attitude in its publications from the number of personnel. TRT, working on taxes from the citizen's gross electricity bills, is broadcasting on the political power line, and the staff status of his staff remains on the agenda. What else is in the law? There's a foundation college. As much as the number of colleges in our country that you brag about so much, if you'd brought the arrangements to help our young people, who graduated from those universities, who have dreams of the future, who have dreams of serving this country, and if we applauded you, we would have unitedly passed the provisions for the benefit of the country through our House. The only agenda in this bag is the removal of the sentences to our citizens, who have been victimised by bridge-passing sentences in Istanbul. Other than that, unfortunately, the arrangement for the benefit of the citizen does not exist. What will be the purpose of these new arrangements now? Without impact analysis, without discussion in the relevant commissions, you'll bring it in and legalize it. In bringing this proposal to the Commission, has the financial burden table been prepared, at least for those who are concerned about the financial issues, of which it is not related? For example, you made arrangements in the Mining Law. As a result of these provisions, will public revenues increase, or will the public be burdened with new financial burdens; is there an analysis? You all know that the proposals for law enforcement, which will make or reduce public revenues, must be calculated and added to the proposals offered for at least three years. When was the last time the Mining Law was changed? February 14, 2019. When was the change before that? It is in July 2018, under the decree of the Code of 703. So, when was the change made before that? January 13, 2017. This item has been changed 14 times, two times radically, 12 times different ways. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Where in the world is such a lawmaking technique, dear friends? The arrangements, which should be discussed in the commissions by the interested person and institutions, are being passed overnight by the Plan and Budget Commission. Why do you want these matters rushed through the House without discussion? Is changing the name of a county that important on our moving agenda? Every subject in the law proposal requires a separate area of expertise. What does the planning and budget commission have to do with these experts, scientists, academics, college students, without any discussion? How many expert scientists have reported on the commission? How many of the university's mining department officials have been asked to consult? Where do our public institutions that operate in mining stand in these arrangements? Have our bureaucrats written a report on the impact analysis of the arrangements in this proposal? Did he report to the Commission on the scope of the regulations and submit to what clause he intended? I'm not a mining engineer, and mining is not my area of expertise, but even an experienced mining engineer in his profession can only comprehend these arrangements by working on legislation for months. So, two months from now, you're going to go back to the same law with the same bag of legislation? You filled out the Plan and Budget Commission, you did, but each of the arrangements in this proposal had to be discussed on its own commission. The Constitutional Commission; National Commission on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission; Industry, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology Commission; Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission; Foreign Commission; Interior Commission; Health, Family, Labour and Social Affairs Commission; each change in these commissions should be discussed in terms of financial, administrative, legal, and legal aspects of the issue; none of them are being brought into the agenda of Parliament without doing so. 13 different laws in this proposal means 13 residencys. If we try to bring together the issues of these 13 different areas, we need to fill the stadium. Imagine if we were to fill a stadium with all the interests, discuss 13 different issues in a scientific framework, try to make them fit the most in society and legalize them, we wouldn't be able to do that in a few hours, like the Plan and Budget Commission, dear friends. You decide to open a university. Well, that's good, but why don't you show your high self-esteem and sensitivity to education? How many unemployed kids do we have in our country who have a college degree? After graduating from colleges, how many young people do we have who can't get a job in three years, who can't get a job in a field where they can't get enough jobs, even though they've had technical training for their field? How many of our college graduates work for minimum wage, and you know these numbers, and why don't you do them? You still don't even move your hair about faculty and departments in certain professional groups that are getting far above supply. Every year, after graduating hundreds of our students, you leave them helpless, and the faculty continues to register with our new students every year. Why are you letting this happen? The other thing on the proposal is the TRT employees' disciplinary procedures. You're trying to legalize this in a hurry. Should the disciplinary procedures of TRT personnel be discussed so urgently within the country's hot agenda? No NGOs, no unions, no Ministry of Labor and Social Services. You're putting an end to this institution's special circumstances, which are different from other public institutions and institutions. We don't understand why you're in such a hurry. In addition, we, the Republican People's Party, have asked for specific motions to be discussed during the meeting of the proposal. What did you do? You refused them all. I'll bring up what you've refused in the presence of our beloved citizens watching the broadcast...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0151par0085	Wrap it up, Mr. Green.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0150par0086	In the last year, you've made promises at different times, you've kept them waiting, and they're working on them. We've made a motion for 3600 additional indicators that you call soon, which you can't bring to the agenda of our Parliament. What did you do? You refused. Why did you reject this matter in the interest of the public? Of course, our appreciation nation. We've offered to appoint our fellow workers, officers, to the rankings of the civil servants who work on the auxiliary staff. What have you done now? You refused. These things go on and on. Dear friends, but sadly, to make someone rich, to give them rights, to make them rule in this society, in such a hurry and in Ramadan month, as if we were making laws, as if we were making a big change in the relevant article of the Constitution, you gather people here, you add a clause, you reject the rest of the demands completely. It's a shame, it's a sin. For him, we have the social values of this society... as long as we don't meet at the point of right, law, justice in this country, no matter what law you bring in, no matter what change you make, you'll never have a chance to succeed in it.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0151par0089	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Ahmet Erbaş will speak. Here you are, Mr. Erbast. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Private, it's also been 15 minutes since he speaks on behalf of himself.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0152par0093	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the second chapter of the Law Proposal on the amendments to some Law and Law Orders number 68 that we are discussing. I salute your high council. This week, on the occasion of May 27th Memorial Day, we commemorated our imperial martyrs and former Minister of Customs and monopoly Gün Sazak, who had been martyred because he was the embodiment of the righteous state, who had been immortalized by testimony of the consciousness of the cause and the faith, the love of the nation and the love of the nation. Once again, may their souls rest in peace, may their place be in heaven. On May 28th, the 101st anniversary of its establishment, an indispensable part of the Turkish world and a blessed day for this glorious land of heroes and blessed children, the Azerbaijan People's Republic. We have also come to understand the anniversary of a glorious event, which is the hope of justice, not just the change of names, but the face of a city, not just the face of humanity, but the face of a state, which is the hope of justice from our banner; we proudly welcome the anniversary of our Prophet, Sultan Mehmet, who has been blessed by our Prophet, and also by the praises of our glorious army, the heart of the world of Istanbul. Once again, the hero who waved our glorious three crescent flags across the Byzantine walls remembers our sacrifice with pride and mercy, and I declare this blessed relic to be our eternal possession. Mr. President, in the second part of the law proposal, the committee, which determines the importance and priority of geothermal investments in the Ministry of Development, which is part of the Geothermal Resources and Natural Mineral Waters Act, is scheduled to be removed. The only authority to decide if investments under geothermal resources and other investments conflict with the proposal has been adopted as the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Again, the proposal conducted a study on pardoning punishments for vehicles not allowed to pass through the July 15th Bridge of Martyrs and extradition of collected sentences. As it is known, many of our citizens were victims of faulty practices on the bridge, especially the light-trade drivers, who faced financial difficulties. With this bill, arrangements have been made for the removal of the victim. As of January 1, 2019, these sentences will be pardoned, provided that those who are concerned for the punishments of the 15th July Martyrs' Bridge will not be allowed to pass through. Again, the proposal also envisions arrangements for the transition of European Union presidency experts and expert assistants from the European Union to occupational officer or consul and occupational officer with the State Department's examination, once and for all. The presidential decree No. 4 and the President of the European Union have been made a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The proposal stipulates that the higher limit for the SVR reduction in the application of scraping incentives will be increased from 10,000 TL to 15,000 TL. A 16-year-old car, panelvan, bus, van, truck, truck tow truck, truck tow truck, has been raised to 15,000 Turkish liras of the upper limit to be abandoned, depending on whether or not a new car is exported directly or dumped by exporters. Mr. President, we are aware that there are also challenges in the industrial sector during this difficult time as a country. Our government is continuing its work in the face of these challenges, particularly with incentives to breathe into our industrialist. We support these practices. We look forward to the immediate implementation of the Victory Organised Industrial Zone, which is vital to my own constituency, Kütahya. This area can easily be brought to a base for the defence industry. We can't solve the infrastructure of a 6 million square meters. So we expect our Ministry of Industry and Technology to immediately solve the infrastructure problem. We are also pleased to see the use of natural gas spread both in our country and in all our districts of Kütahya, but we are faced with an application that we find difficult to understand. Simav will come to our county with natural gas, of course, but right now our Simav district provides heating and hot water systems from our geothermal resources. It is said that the company that will bring natural gas to Simav will not allow the geothermal system to warm up after natural gas has arrived. After the natural gas connection has been established, this choice must be left to the people of the district, not to impose citizens, but to take their own choice to the natural gas. If we're going to keep the natural gas mandatory, we can do it to factories in the organized industrial area. Even though we're heating up the whole county with geothermal, we're heating up some state-owned companies with fuel-oil, so at least we can get public institutions on natural gas first. We also need to bring natural gas to other counties, including Aslanapa, Domanic, and Eskigediz, who are still looking forward to natural gas. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, speaking of Aslanapa, I'd like to draw your attention to something. There are now four doctors in the province of Aslanapa. At 5:00 p.m., these four doctors leave our county, the reason is that they can't find a place to stay. First of all, I would like to address the TOKI: At least we can do a 100 - dwelling TOKI project in Aslanapa. It's 1700 hours for four of our doctors. I wonder how we're going to fill this hospital with medical staff, which we can't keep in this district at 00, and now we've built a big hospital. We have plenty of hospitals in the districts of Kütahya, which unfortunately only operates on the 1st floor. If we had finished the city hospital where we could only finish 17 per cent in the city center in 11 years instead of making unplanned hospitals for the counties, if we had made more practical, smaller hospitals for the counties, we would have dealt with the Kütahiya's health problem, and we would have prevented such a waste of public health. We support public buildings built throughout Turkey and in Kütahya, but the size and strength of our state cannot be measured by the size of buildings. The public buildings that have been built in our city have been made to be quite unnecessary lately, and sometimes I wonder if the engineers who planned our public buildings had mistaken us for Ankara or Istanbul. Our total population is 700,000. Dear Regents, of course with one and the county will have a public building, but we need to set a standard. It's huge, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, it's big, In this regard, especially given the population of cities and the number of people working at that public establishment in that city, it would make us happy to have a standard in these buildings that we're already trying to do with taxes, with a low opinion. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, another bleeding wound as Kütahya is at Victory Airport. We have guaranteed passengers at Victory Airport, and unfortunately, we can only fill 4 per cent. The footman, Afyon and Kütahiah, have very few flights in this airport. These three provinces also contain a large number of expats. In particular, in the summer months, we can put additional trips to Europe to reach these three provinces easier for our foreign citizens. We're already paying the operating company for the damage; at least let's pay the planes for the damage, and let our citizens come to their homes, their wombs, at cheaper prices. By the way, I'd like to address our Minister of Transport: there are three in our province and many in other provinces. Mr. Secretary, it's past tense, but please check out the engineers who planned and calculated this sinking, check their engineering degrees; they burned down our city, they didn't burn down other cities. When our President comes to Kütahya, we also expect that all of our unfinished roads, particularly the Rabbit, Emet, will be completed, as he promises to Kütahya in the elections. Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words about the gold mine in our district. We're not against this industry. Both our province and Kütahya want to extract gold in the private sector at Mt. Gediz Murat, which we believe is as beautiful as the Alps.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0153par0110	Anadolu Export.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0152par0111	The mining business is difficult everywhere, but especially gold, unfortunately, is a greater challenge in our country. There was unrest in every province where the gold mine was mined. I don't know the capacity of the mine bed in Mount Murat, which is in Kütahya Gediz, but I do know one thing, my dear brothers: there is a Mount Murat to be slaughtered. We can't create a second Mt. Murat. I wish you could see what I mean. The citizen is very confused, especially, and there are very serious rumors about cyanide. We're having serious doubts that cyanide will get in the water, and we're having serious doubts that the cancers will increase. Surely the private sector will give us commitments that won't happen, and it will tell us nicely, but we and all the public must be convinced that the People of the Kütahya and Uçak must be convinced that this is the case. Mr. President, valuable MPs, as it is known, a statement has been made by Mr. Ziya Selçuk, our Minister of National Education for the new education system, which will be implemented in secondary schools in the recently held Middle School Design Credit Meeting. We see in the new system that the number of classes is reduced, the choice of courses is added to the curriculum. The point is that history and geography courses, which are important in our Turkish culture, are presented as an elective course out of mandatory class status. We know, of course, that the children that he had destroyed the memories, taken away from the families, mankurted them, came the day to point a gun at his own soldier, his nation. Remember, history is not just a lesson, it's a lesson of national consciousness. We must teach our children to follow the footsteps of our ancestors from Mete Han to Alparslan, from Fatih to Mustafa Kemal. Speaking of national consciousness, I'd also like to mention the geography courses presented as the same application as the elective course. Geography is not all about climates, streams, mountains; geography is a field of expertise that each individual must know in absolute measure. If we don't know our geography, if we don't know their wealth underground and above ground, we'll be raising a dark generation. We're confident that our Minister, who we have no doubt is sensitive, will review this matter. We live in a geography where we can't live to learn every detail. For example, when I stand on every stand, I tell you about Kütahiah, and I tell you the beauty of Judah, and I invite you all to Kütahiah. The land of Çelebi Naheliya is truly a city worth seeing. I want to give you a very simple example: Which one of us has seen Domanic forests and seen only the kinds of trees seen in these woods in the world? That's what geography is all about. One more thing I'd like to say: we have Sundays and Spashee counties, and they only live on cherries and cherries. You won't find any other sentences in these two counties for a year, there's nothing else, just cherries and cherries. We're waiting this year for the price the agricultural loan co-ops are going to announce because last year he announced an official price: agricultural loan co-ops; 1.6 cents. We want the price to be 2.5 or $3 this year. This peasant has no other means of livelihood. Let's not kill agriculture, fruit and livestock. The $1 trillion that we're going to transfer here isn't even as important as the fireworks money from many municipalities, but it's very important for the Spas and Markets. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have launched Operation Claw to neutralize terrorists in the northern Iraqi Hakurk region, to destroy bunkers and warehouses that provide logistical support for terrorists, while we've been talking freely and moving forward in these blessed days.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0154par0117	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0152par0118	In the operation under operation, two of our hero sergeants have been killed. May their place be in heaven. We have no doubt that their revenge will be swift. I call upon the Lord God that tomorrow's Night of Kadir, which we will first realize is a blessing for our heroic soldiers and their noble families in the operation, the Turkish nation, the Islamic world, and for you, our esteemed MPs. I already congratulate you on the upcoming Day of Ramadan. The Festival of Ramadan wishes to bring peace, peace, and happiness to our country, our nation, and the Turkish-Islam world, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0155par0122	Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0156par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with last year's decision, millions of retired citizens were ordered to receive additional bonuses, including a thousand liras per religious holiday. The fee for 2019 was again held for a thousand lira, despite the inflation of about 20 per cent consumers, and the news of the holiday of the pensioners was broken. In addition, our retired citizens from private pension boxes have been injured by social justice, not included in this practice. Therefore, the legal arrangement requires that both the protection of the assets of the existing owners and the possibility of our unreserved pensioners be extended. With all due respect, I present it to the Assembly General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0157par0131	On the second part of the proposal, Mr. Huseyin Örs will speak for himself. Here you go. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0158par0135	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the second chapter of the Law Proposal in relation to the amendments to certain Law and Law provisions in 68 rows under discussion. I salute you all with the utmost respect. Dear lawmakers are required to waive administrative fines for those passing through the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15th with the 12th clause to be discussed in the second chapter, although it is forbidden to pass by the designated time period by car classes. The subject has been mentioned by our party before, and I want to say that we look positive. The 16th article aims to increase the upper limit to 15,000 Turkish liras in the export or scraping of car, panelvan, bus, van, truck, truck, truck, truck, and tow vehicles. I would especially like to say that we find this change, in a sense, in support of the narrowing down of the automotive sector over the last year, to be positive. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to present to you today a very warm development on this bench. In the case of the privatisation of the Tank Palet Factory in Sakarya Arifiye, one of the top five factories in the world, the prosecutor has demanded that the privatisation process be annulled, stating that the privatisation process is against the law. You know, since the first day this came up, we have repeatedly expressed to our citizens that we are against this privatisation process, both on this parliamentary platform and in the electoral squares. We have shared our doubts, reservations with the public, opposed the sale of this factory, which is the state's only capacity to produce tanks and experience, and have also requested that this sale be investigated in the Turkish Grand National Assembly by the leadership of Mr. Umit Dikbayir. In our motion, we asked why such a factory, which produces and sells to other armed forces of the world, which we're in strategic cooperation with our own Armed Forces, would be privatized, and why the production of our Armed Forces would be removed from nationality to private capital, and we asked to be investigated in Parliament. However, as a result of the talks, our motion was rejected by the EC PARTY vote. I wish you would have said yes to the research proposal of the good PARTY that day. At the point where we're here today, the prosecutor of the State's Attorney's Office has asked for a mistrial in the case of the privatisation of the Tank Palet Factory in Sakarya Arifia, which has been discussed for months. In his debate on the basis, the prosecutor said that the factory was not an institution that could achieve efficiency, reduce public costs, and assess the property of the treasure, not by the presidential decree, but by stressing that it could be privatised by law. It was a military facility and was founded to carry out national security services.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0159par0140	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0158par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. The privatisation process must be cancelled for these reasons, which is said to have been privatised in violation of the factory's public interest and in addition to the principles specified in the Defence Industry Safety Act. Dear lawmakers, I would like to bring to your attention the testimony of this facility in this debate, which is a military facility and was founded to carry out national security services. The wrong account returns from Baghdad. They say, "I hope the wrong account will return from the Court." I salute you with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0160par0145	The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are two motions on Article 13 of the same nature, which I will carry out with me. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 13th amendment of the 13th Amendment to the amendment to certain Laws and Laws under which there is a meeting be made. Article 3 of Article 3 (34) of Geothermal Resources No. 5686, dated 13 - 3/6/2007 and Natural Mineral Waters Act 3 (34) has been lifted from the law. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Muhammad Naci Cinisli Tuba Vural The signatures of the other motion are: Free Special Faruk Sarıaslan Hussein Yıldız Hüseyin Avni Aksoy Özcan Special Rafet Zeybek Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0161par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0160par0164	Mersin MP Behic Çelik wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0162par0167	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are concerned about the removal of the 13th Amendment clause, Article 5686, and the 3rd amendment of the Natural Mineral Waters Act (34). I hereby salute your high council and our fellow citizens who follow us. By the way, as part of Operation Claw, I wish God's mercy to two of our soldiers who were killed by the EYP explosion in Hakurk. I'd like to present to you that we are behind the activities of the heroic Turkish army in the region, that we support Mehmet Çikik. Dear friends, as is known, the Energy Efficiency Co-ordination Committee was meeting as head of the multi-development Development Minister, identifying the priority and importance of geothermal resources and natural mineral water search and business activities and other investments for public benefit. This board is being lifted, and the president's so-called administrative process is under way. We call it the president's uhdes, another expression of how the execution was blocked. The immediate release of the perpetrators of the attacks on Mr. Akşener, Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu is another account of how the trial was blocked. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not running; its authority is another account of how legislation was blocked due to a defunct, minimalized, passiveised Turkish National Assembly. In order to end these obstructions, to get out of here, to escape the economic crisis, to establish an effective public administration -- I think we can agree -- we have to abandon the one-man regime. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are contributing greatly to the national economy with their geothermal power plant, their economic capacity and employment. However, the disaster of the environment with JES is also large enough to make the public say, "If only there were no JES." The fact that our country has a geothermal energy resource, where the main earthquake generations lie down, where the ground intersects, forces us to take advantage of geothermal energy by its nature. This will also reduce our dependence on the outside of energy. However, it is imperative that the choice of placement of JES (JES) is well defined and that its negative impact on the environment be reduced to minimal. Human health, environment and land must be prevented from harming agriculture, livestock and natural resources. In terms of geothermal energy, our most remarkable province in Turkey is Aydın. About 80 per cent of the province of Aydın has been opened to geothermal businesses. 58% of all of the JESEs opened for operation are still in Aydın. We can say: The free delivery of JES fluids, the contamination of the Menderes River, the increased soil pollution, the increase of sulfur dioxide emissions in the air, the rise in cancer, the quality of smell and life, with our other provinces, threatens our social and economic structure, our environment. Dear lawmakers, the administration in our country has collapsed, including local governments. The State Planning Agency has been abolished. I've submitted this before. The Court has been pacified. Even though we are such an energy-dependent country, there is no control and the planning of such investments has to be taken before the measures to minimize energy dependency can be controlled and planned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0163par0174	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0162par0175	Thank you. Unfortunately, these are unsupervised, the state's screwed up, and we need new arrangements to make it up to you again. From one man's regime to the parliamentary system again, I think it's useful to evolve Turkey. Finally, I, too, am celebrating the upcoming Day of Ramadan nationally, wishing that the holiday would be a blessing for the Turkish and Islamic world and for humanity, and the acceptance of our motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0164par0180	Mr. Özkan Yimım wants to talk to you about the other proposal of the same nature. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0165par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. I give my sincerest regards to my fellow congressmen and to all our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear friends, first of all, I'm going to go over the specifics of the victimization of our citizens who passed through what we call the first bridge, the Bosporus Bridge. Because they visited me at the beginning of April, and I made a motion on April 22nd from the moment I saw their victims because of their visit. So, what was that? The licenses of the Volkswagen Caddy, Fiat Doblo, Ford Connect, Peugeot Partner, Citroen Berlingo-type vehicles, unfortunately, were fined around $1,332 for crossing the first bridge. Of course, when you think that a person has passed from the European Side to the Anatolian Side to the European Side, or from the Anatolian Side to the European Side once a day, after 60 days of notification, we have determined that they have received about 70, 80, 90 thousand lira fines, about 60 days later. My own personal assessment is that 404 people were subjected to this punishment. We have citizens who have been sentenced from 13,000 to 20,000, 49, 70, 78,000, even to 91,000 TL, where I have a single license plate and the names of individuals. In order to address this injustice, as I just said, I submitted my motion on April 22nd, and after we had these meetings with the Ministry of Transport, this bag also entered the law. We give good news to these citizens that if they have paid the fine, they must apply to the tax offices within 60 days of today or if they have not paid the fine because they will be exempt from punishments starting today. Now, let's tell them why they got the punishment here. Unfortunately, because of the guarantee of passage to Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, these people... a small vehicle... are the brands I just counted. Normally, they're the type of vehicles that carry up to 500 kilograms of cargo, or that allow them to travel with their own families. There's absolutely nothing wrong with them crossing the Bosporus Bridge, the first bridge, because none of these vehicles are above 7.5 tons or 12 tons, so it's okay for them to pass. Well, as I said, because of the guarantee... Look, because of this guarantee, the taxes that many of our citizens pay are unfortunately being pursued by the operating firm because the wrong tenders have been made. Look, from what I call the Mad Dumrul Bridge, from the Osman Gazi Bridge, our valued citizens, our fellow congressmen, these are technical issues, but I'll share information with you today -- the passing of a truck is $327.65. He left in the morning, returned in the evening, what did he do? He paid $655. What's he winning anyway? You know, you guys, the AK PARTI administration -- I'm specifically telling the Minister of Transport -- you're selling the citizen's little car, even the big mover's truck, the mover's truck that brings all the furniture you need to eat from all the furniture you need, and the trucker's trucker's truck. Many of our citizens were forced to sell their car, their truck, because of you, who had to cross the bridge and couldn't pay for it in 14 days, because they couldn't pay for it. That's why you guys planted fig trees in people's stoves. And I'm telling you that loud and clear. Now, with this -- as I say again -- in all the deals you make -- you guarantee 40,000 transitions because you're protecting non-compulsive firms, and because these vehicles don't pass, you make these firms pay their taxes for 80 million dollars. For him, I am again warning Mr. President, the Minister of Transport, that the terms of this tender will be corrected at the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge, which I hope they will make the necessary arrangements, because I am highlighting that we must have every cent of the tax paid by the citizen here. No, if you're not going to claim it, then you'll see that the citizen will give you the answer as soon as possible because you sell people's cars and cars. Yeah, is $35 guaranteed today plus VAT, $202? Besides, it's 202 TL. You guys dropped it to 102 TL in the car because I said it's too high, but it's not because people can't get through.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0166par0190	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0165par0191	Dear friends, I'd like to point out that we're a supporter of the arrangement for the forgiveness of crossings on the bridge, but the bridge deals are also wrong. On the other hand -- our Kütahya MP friend has just spoken -- you know, we have our footman, our Kütahya, our most important source of water and air, Mt. Murat. Mt. Murat, we will not have our water poisoned. I call again to the Anadolu Export Mining Industry and Trade Limit Company, which has a report of CED: Come, give up this work, for our servant citizen, the Kütahian citizen, will not let his water be poisoned, nor will his pines be cut. I say from here, from Mt. Murat, we will not make you mine gold, we will not make you do it, we will not cut down the trees there, and we will not make you poison the water of our citizens. I, myself, myself, am also informing our courts that I'm going to file a D.E.D. annulment case tomorrow. I'd like to request that the sensitive citizens from here file a D.E.D. mistrial. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0167par0196	Now, I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 14th article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of Law Proposal 68 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Ahmet Şık Erol Kadircıoğlu Ali Kenanoğlu Garo Paylan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagpipes, Tulay Hatimlari Oğüç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0168par0206	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0167par0207	Istanbul MP Ali Kenanoğlu wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0169par0210	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On the way here, while I was preparing my speech, I was actually going to discuss a variety of issues on matter. I've made some changes to some of the arguments that have happened here. Now, I'm a Turk, who does politics in HDP, whose native language is Turkish, who takes his seed and his ancestor to 1,300. And in HDP, I do politics with honor and pride, and I embrace my party and his politics, and I love it. Now, there's been a debate about this separatism, this terrorism, and there's been times when I've been disappointed. The recent situation of the trustees in the area has caused me to be deeply disappointed. I mean, I'm really worried about the state of the Republic of Turkey, who actually governs the state of the Republic of Turkey, if they see all of these Islamic borders as their home, their home. Why? Now, you see, the trustees know they're there for a temporary period, so they knew better than we did, they knew they were going to go in the first election much better, but despite all that, they didn't try to loot it in such a way -- there's no other name, there's no other name, there's no other name -- they ransacked the area, the entire province. That's slander, what did they do? Now, what in God's name is this? Now, not only did they donate the revenues of the city's budget, but they also donated their buildings elsewhere -- to the boardroom, to the police. I mean, they donate their own building to the city's service department, and then they leave. Now, Cizre's trustee also serves as a trustee in Cizre. When you take the municipality, 36 million people have money in the city's vault, and when you hand it over with 220 million debts, it says to the municipality: "I have 15 days' salary, pay my salary." The municipality says: "We can't pay, there's no money." What kind of a mindset is that? Now, what kind of logic is that to the people of the region? So the citizen there won't think that you, the trustees assigned here, the authorities sent here to loot the revenues of the people of the region. That's what I'd think. Now, we need to question that point of view. If every square inch of land within the Islamic borders is our homeland, and we look at all of it equally, equally, importantly, then the person who did it should still not be there as a trustee. The account of that palace room inside Diyarbakır City must be asked, so that everyone can believe and see that you are truly looking at that people. You might say: "It's a person's weakness there, it's his weakness, it's his own incompetence, it's his looting." But if no unit of the state is acting on it, even though they're still out there in the process of subservients, governors, or so forth, then I suspect as a Turk, that the state is not really looking at that area like that. In fact, I'm worried about whether or not you see people there as citizens. If that's what I'm hearing, as a citizen there, more than I am, he'll have to review his relationship with this government, with those who run this country. It's a situation, it's a situation. It's not something that comes from such a political, ideological point of view. Now, all of these trustees, they're all in the area, and it's clear what they've done to the municipalities. They need to be accounted for, the state needs to ask, the prosecutors in this country need to ask. As long as these prosecutors don't ask those trustees about this account, you can't make that connection with the locals. After that, he's our ally, we're all brothers and all that, it's all just stories and fairy tales. You know, I've been saving up the important part of my speech for the Chorum massacre, and it's all been holding me back, but I'd like to say a few words. Thirty-nine years ago today, on May 28th, there was a mass murder that ended on July 10th. You know, we're discussing whether we should face our history or not. 57 people were slaughtered there in the stock massacre.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0170par0222	Round it up, Mr. Kenanoglu.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0169par0223	Hundreds of shops and houses are being looted during the massacre. People are burned in ovens, burned in fields, burned in fields, skinned, skewered, shot to death. After that, there's no lawsuit, just personal lawsuits based on personal responsibilities, not even a class action case. What I know is that almost everyone knows that no incident that the state, the state, the authorities, or the authorities, doesn't want to become a massacre; that's very clear, the state has the power to prevent it. Events may happen, may happen against your will, may be spontaneously developed, may develop by provocation, events may develop, but these events happen when the heads of the government there allow them to be massacred, and that's what happened in Çorum. As I have cursed the slaughter in abundance, I respect all the souls that have died there. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0170par0226	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in Article 635 and some of the Law Number 68. With all due respect. Ali Öztunç Inspiration Özcan Aygun Mustafa Adıl == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Article 1 of Law No. 14-5686 has been changed as follows. EK MADDE 1- (1) In case there are no roads, highways, railways, airports, ports, dams, energy plants, mines, oil, gas, watershales, public benefits, or other investments belonging to real or legal individuals block one another, in case there are no other alternative areas for investment, the ministry is given its opinion by the geothermal resource and natural minarelli water search and business activities, by the way that other investments are relevant to the public and to determine the value of the decision, and to determine first the importance of the ministry. These decisions, taken by the ministry, are based on a decision of public interest. The Ministry decides that the area where the geothermal resource and natural minarelli water search and business activity can't be done will be divided from the license or revoked. (2) All expenses, daily and so on are covered by the investor for reporting, consulting fees, examinations, and so on, provided it is considered necessary by the Ministry or the General Directorate of Mines and Oil. In addition, investment costs by the Ministry or the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleums are compensated by the agreed-on entity for the geothermal resource and natural minarelli water search and business activities, which are restricted by the decision of the Ministry or the General Directorate of Mines and Oil. Due to the transactions of investment conflict, the amount, which must be paid by the Ministry or the General Directorate for Mines and Oil, for any reason, is applied to the favoured side of the decision. (3) No geothermal energy production facilities can be established within the Tourism Centre or Cultural and Tourism Protection and Development Area. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0171par0243	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0170par0244	It's Aydın MP Hüseyin Yıldız who wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0172par0247	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I've been coming here for four years to talk about geothermal, but unfortunately, an Aydın MP couldn't tell you the voice of the Enlightenment. Dear friends, Aydın has the largest plain in Turkey, which is the first place in Turkey in the production of olives, figs, chestnuts; cotton and strawberries come in second place. In Aydın's agricultural products -- figs, olives, chestnuts -- our exports alone are 800 million dollars, but unfortunately, with a law you passed in 2007, you divided 85 percent of Aydın's facial measurement into a geothermal power plant and now there are 50 geothermal power plants in the Aydın region. Dear friends, these geothermal power plants are doing terrible, terrible damage to the environment. I'm not saying that. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism published a statement on May 19th: "The Light has the dirtiest air in Turkey." On the contrary, not those who are retired there, but even the inhabitants of Aydın, who sell their place and flee to other provinces. Why? Because of these geothermal power plants. Dear friends, you don't have to say anything. We have 17 counties. The geothermal power plant was established in 15 districts of 17 districts. Is anyone controlling this? No, I don't, guys. The guy generates electricity at a government guarantee for 13 cents and takes all the electricity he generates from us for 13 cents, but the energy used is 50 percent friends. 50%. You know what that means? So this government, this citizen, gets 26 cents on those runners, the kilowatts of electricity. That'll be 26 cents. But -- I just told you -- our exports of figs, olives, chestnuts, cotton are $800 million. So 400,000 families make a living with agricultural products, but on the other hand, five companies that share Israel's future are destroying it. So, do you guys know how much money you get from this electricity production? $100 million. So you're destroying $800 million, 400,000 families' livelihoods because I'm going to produce $100 million in electricity. So, what law do you bring now, dear friends? Notice the 14th article (3), dear friends, or the approved construction plans for those areas will be restructured if the ministry prioritizes the production of energy in accordance with its decision on public benefit, which will be taken within the Tourism Centre or the Cultural and Tourism Protection and Development Area or within the Ministry's Area of Culture and Tourism. Do you guys know what that means? You've destroyed agriculture, you've finished everything, now it's time for... two counties: one is Didim, one is Kuşada. Kuşadası is the district that introduces tourism to Turkey. Now you're telling these 2 counties that we're removing things that have been declared a tourist zone in the past, where we're going to build a geothermal power plant. Dear friends, your Minister of Tourism is coming out, saying: 70 million tourists, 70 billion dollars. But with this stuff right now, you're putting dynamite on the foundations of tourism. I think it's a traitor who brought this stuff in here, and I'm telling you. There's a $200 billion investment in tourism. 200 billion dollars in tourism investments -- business investments, not government investments -- and you're putting dynamite in there.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0173par0256	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0172par0257	Dear friends, we're all sitting here, Ramazan is the month. Even we come and kill our own tourism, dear friends. Someone's gonna make money... so the Minister of Tourism is bidding, giving the place up for forty-nine years. He invests $100 million, then you bring him in and build a geothermal power plant next to him. Dear friends, this doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. So here's the thing: we kill agriculture, we kill tourism, we have no expectations. There are now 8 million unemployed, and 1,200,000 of our friends in tourism will be out of work. You'll see, if this law is passed... give this motion to friends, please give it to them. Otherwise, in the coming period, you'll see a hotel for sale in the place of all five stars. So, please, I'd like to ask the AKP members and the MHP people to support this motion. At least there will be no geothermal power plants in tourism areas. We add this material.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0174par0260	That's not true, you want backup, brother!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0172par0261	I congratulate you all on the Festival of Ramadan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0175par0263	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0176par0265	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0177par0266	For God's sake, sit down, we've got work to do!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0175par0267	Let's discuss these comprehensive conversations after Ramazan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0177par0268	I hope so, after the inferno.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0175par0269	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0178par0272	We'd like you to make that statement if you'd just made it to the witness who was speaking from the stand.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0177par0273	I didn't want to do it to her. I wanted to do it to you. There is such a thing.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0178par0274	It is wrong to bring such matters together, not to be one, to a matter of betrayal, in the last days of Ramadan and in our search for the Night of Kadir. The numbers are in the middle. Look, I'm just saying, today in agriculture and livestock, and again in the energy industry, it's been compared to each other, so...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0177par0275	Hey, people, open up, for God's sake! You've imported hay, let alone farming at this hour!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0178par0276	We've got an agricultural export in agriculture and livestock over $20 billion.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0177par0277	Sit down, you're importing hay, still don't talk! Come on, sit down! Oh, my beautiful brother, for God's sake! What's left of this?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0178par0278	Again, it says imports in agriculture...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0177par0279	People are going to starve, thanks to you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0178par0280	Here's the answer to the import: $15 billion. So it's an agricultural industry that we're giving $5 billion more money to. It can be said: Why is this importing agriculture? In production...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0179par0281	Go to villages, villages. See the villages.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0177par0282	Yeah, people, you're starving, you're bringing potatoes, onions, you're still talking, for God's sake! Agriculture, you know... no onions, no onions. People can't eat onions at home! For God's sake!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0180par0283	Why are you importing potatoes?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0181par0284	Potatoes, onions...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0182par0285	Özkan, don't talk there, you've got two trucks in 400 trucks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In 15 years, you've put two trucks in 400 trucks. You're following your own trucks through these bridge crossings, why don't you?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0183par0288	You go buy potatoes, onions, my tanzim, then come back!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0184par0289	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0182par0290	We served the development of our country in the export of $5 billion in agricultural goods.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0183par0291	Buy potatoes and onions from the sale!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0184par0292	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0182par0293	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0183par0294	Buy potatoes, onions from the sale, and then come back, bro! Cahit, when you get out of here, get in line for the sale, get some potatoes, onions, and then we'll talk, let's stop.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0182par0295	400 trucks, my ass!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0183par0296	You were in line at the meet yesterday. I saw you. You were in line yesterday, you were in line for the bake sale!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0182par0297	He's up to 400 trucks, 400 trucks in 15 years. It's almost as if that mind gave us some. He's got it up to 400 trucks. There's nothing, there's poverty, 400 trucks, it's all right! God bless you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0183par0298	Yeah, you were on the potato line yesterday, you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0185par0302	There are three motions on the 15th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Here, read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 15 of the Law Proposal to the amendment of Laws No. 68 and 635. With all due respect. Ali Öztunç Serkan Topal Inspiration Özcan Aygun Mustafa Adıl Özcan Special Haydar Akar The following temporary clause has been added to the Law on the Service of Highways No. 6001, dated 15-25/6/2010. "From 5/1/2019 to the date when this clause is in effect, there is no administrative fine issued under the second joke of Article 30, which is forbidden to use as part of car classrooms, and there is no decision on appeals or open cases, and there is no decision on the charges of trial and pursuit costs on the parties. As part of these sentences, the collections made prior to the date of this clause are rejected and extradited until the end of the fifth month, when the item is applied until the end of the fourth month, following the date of the item's entry into force. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0186par0314	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0185par0315	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0187par0318	Mr. President, each and every one of us, of course, is concerned about the work of the House, so we'd like to avoid further debates, but now there's a report. Mr. Group Vice President is dealing with the character, and Özkan Yılim/a says: "You've moved your two trucks up to 400 in the PARTI period." It's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not the numbers he's given. But I talked to him, and if he answers from the podium, it's going to take longer than that, so that we don't upset the President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0185par0319	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0187par0320	Here's the thing, Mr. President: You think about yourself at bridge crossings. You have 400 trucks, so you're interested. This is pure slander. Özkan Yimım has trucks, but not one of them is in the country, they are all abroad, and one of them has no bridge transfer debt or punishment. This is slander. This is an insult. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0185par0322	Thank you. To talk about the motion, MP Haydar Akar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. Mr. Haydar, give the Ramadan a proper speech.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0188par0330	Don't worry, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the 15th Amendment. When you look at the original 15th article, we're going to talk about correcting a trap set up by a citizen of the state in favor of a citizen, but I'm going to give an answer to the AKP deputy leader as we speak. I swear to God I don't own a truck, I have a car, and I don't really use that bridge, and I don't visit Istanbul much even though I live too close. Now, my dear friends, why do I call this a government trap? You know, the cars we all use, the cars we all use, the panel vans next to them, and I'll even go by the definition of UKOME: the truck, the panelvan, can cross the first bridge except for vans. So the strangler says he can cross the Bridge, and the others can't. And three months ago, we passed a pardon law here, and we pardoned those people's punishments. Later, immediately on New Year's Eve, Istanbul Metropolitan City released the second bridge to these vehicles, and there's no punishment from that bridge, but it's coming from the first bridge. Now, I'll tell you one thing, and I'll tell you again the identification of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality: 5 million 881, 450 vehicles passed through these bridges in 2017 and 2018. From both of them -- these identified vehicles -- five or six million vehicles passed through the cars that entered criminal sanctions today. Later, after the passing of second-class vehicles was dropped, we're detecting approximately 2,236 vehicles per day. The most recent sentence is 275 thousand, which is $330 million, and the fine for the citizens is $330 million. Why did he set up a citizen? It's not a law either, guys. If there was a law, he would have to know the law. We'd go around, boast about it, brag about it. In fact, most lawmakers don't even know the law. This is an executive decision by the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. I mean, there's no way a citizen could know that. Not only does Istanbul pass those bridges, neither does Istanbulian when you look at them. For example, as a citizen living in Izmit, if I have a job in Surgery, if I have a patient, I can drive that kind of vehicle across the Bosphorus Bridge and go back and forth. About $2,300 is the amount of punishment I'm going to get when I get back. So this problem wasn't dealt with by previous amnesty. We're running a pardon law today, and we're not gonna be able to fix it again, which should be, right. I made a suggestion to the AKP Group that we should fix this today. People from Anatolia don't know, more than half of Istanbul hasn't seen the sea, so they don't know the code, the law. The citizen wants to reach his destination by the shortest, shortest shortcut. Why was this regulation or administrative decision made? It was built to cover those guarantee crossings in Sultan Selim, or to provide guarantee crossings or to provide an advantage to the company that operates it. It's not enough to cross that bridge, you pay a separate fee for every road you take. I don't know if you've ever used it, but at least five of your OGS are singing through it. You're turning into a paying citizen in those corporate companies, on bridges. My offer was: Once you have received the notification, if you have received the document, if you are using the bridge again, let the punishment be carried out. We're going to do this another way, we're going to change that decision from UKOME, and the first bridge, as on the second bridge, can be used by these vehicles. I hope it's done as soon as possible so that these citizens don't get hurt again right after the election. Because after the election, as I said, 270,000 people were sentenced to 330 million TL. Now, my dear friends, it is right to be forgiven. But there's another incident happening these days, this do-and-do model is on the bridges. Again, Yavuz Sultan Selim has asked the Transport Ministry to change the terms of the contract. What's the price determined by? According to the exchange rate on January 2nd, the Central Bank is determined according to the exchange rate, and that fee is valid by the end of the year, for Turkish money, and the state is paying for the non-existent vehicle in April. Now, the firm has an offer that says: let's set the price on that 2 January for the first six months, let's set the price on the second six months by July 2nd; let the state pay the price on the first six months on the 2nd of July; let the state pay the price on the second six months on the 2nd January. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0189par0339	Pack it up, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0188par0340	With the figures of 2018, I said, how much more will the state pay for it, with the guarantees given by the state, I've done this kind of adaptation of the required or even appropriate contract. According to Osmangazi Bridge 2018, 1 billion 600 million states have paid dollars for guarantee crossings and will have to pay another 200 million on top of it. Look, guys, I'm always saying from this bench, that the five-alarm gang or the 10 contractors are exploiting all of Turkey's savings. He's exploiting what's in people's pockets, what's in the government's treasury, with the do-and-do models. Now, this is for Yavuz Sultan Selim, who received this contract from the Ministry of Transport. Now, they're going to want it for Eurasia Tunnel, they're going to want it for the Osmangazi Bridge, they're going to want it for the city hospitals, and they're going to want it for the roads we've been paying for, the roads we've described as the surrounding roads. Look, it's Ramadan day, the holidays are coming. If you've got a little conscience, don't hand this state over to this gang, celebrate your holidays, pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0190par0345	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 15 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under the Law, I hereby submit and propose that the declaration of the law shall be changed under the terms referred to in the first sentence of Article 15. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Tuba Öral Pekal Bedri Yaşar Behic Steel Muhammad Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0191par0354	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0190par0355	Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0192par0358	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Council, and our beloved nation. Good luck to our heroic soldiers operating in the northern Iraqi Hakurk region. May God give them strength and strength in these blessed days. I pray for the mercy of our fallen brothers and sisters. May God make us worthy of them. I'd like to share my thoughts on the May 27th, 1960 coup a few days ago. The Democratic Party government, which was elected in 1950, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, were annulled by a group within the army on 27 May 1960. Democratic Party politicians and Joint Chiefs of Staff and Joint Chiefs of Staff were arrested. Of the 263 generals and admirals serving in our army in those days, about 5,000 officers were sent to retirement, and in the coming days, they were again expelled from the army on the grounds of retirement. The May 27th coup is not only a coup against Turkish politics, but also a coup against the Turkish army. Our country's will has changed hands. Prime Minister Adnan Menderes, who is sentenced to death as a result of his so-called trials in Yassia, is Minister of Foreign Affairs Fatin Rüştü Zor, Finance Minister Hasan Polatkan, and I call upon the blessings of the Cessuada past, including my family elders. I also remember and thank the late statesman, Gün Sazak Bey, our former Minister of Customs and Tekel, who was once a whore martyred again on May 27th. May their place be in heaven. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to express my regret that a bag of laws has cast a shadow on the dignity of our great House. In November 2016, the Transport Co-ordination Centre ruled that some vehicles were banned from the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15 and from the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge. Let me briefly remind you why this decision was made: The ban was made a week before the opening of Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge. In addition, 50 million vehicles per year were guaranteed to cross this bridge. After this ban order was made, violations of the July 15th Martyrs Bridge and the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridges had begun to be detected, but citizens who did not know that the owners had made the necessary notifications but had been violated continued to use bridges. When the collection of notifications began to be sent at a certain time, our citizens were faced with the amount of punishment they couldn't afford, even if they sold their vehicles. Mr. Bakili Yıldırım, who launched a run for mayor of İstanbul last December without resigning from the Parliamentary presidency as a result of the right responses from our citizens, announced to our press that those who made the breached bridge crossings would be pardoned without our parliament's knowledge. After this statement, a proposal for the amnesty of violations of our General Assembly's agenda was submitted and passed within the law. The article containing the pardon for the violations was placed within the package of the law proposal, which included the opening of İstanbul Boğaziçi to the ranta and extension of the duties of the members of the YSK. Today, it's only a short period of time, but once again, an arrangement has been made as a result of the same scenario, which shows us that all the work of power is to make our nation depend on it. In five months' time, however, a new decision could be made to address the victims of our citizens, and car classrooms could be held fairly. You don't listen to our citizens or their voice in the House, you ignore our demands, our proposals. I'd like to ask you: Why was the use of the July 15th Martyrs Bridge and the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge banned? Why were punishments suspended last December for violations of these bridges? Five months later, what caused you to need another pardon? While regulations are expected to be made so that our citizens will never face such injustices again, the EC PARTI is using the temporary removal of the sacrifices it has caused and using it as a repetitive method to get the candidate elected mayor of Istanbul. The point that our nation and our citizens of Istanbul must know is that after the election, there will be no new amnesty for infringements, and the exchange fees will be updated on foreign currency. The financial burden of the economic crisis, guarantees from tunnels and bridges will remain on our citizens again.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0193par0367	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0192par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd also like to point out that we're in favor of a change in terms of law enforcement's coercion and the removal of these kinds of penalties. However, I would also like to point out that this arrangement is an inadequate election investment to save the day. Before I put an end to my words, I salute you and your holy Night of Kadir, and your Day of Ramadan, and salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0194par0372	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 15 of Law Proposal 68 in the following manner. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law on the Services of Route 6001, dated 15-25/6/2010. " FROM 5/1/2019 to the date when this clause is in effect, there will be no administrative fines issued under the second charge of Article 30, which is prohibited from being used as part of car classrooms, and there will be no decision on appeals or open cases, and there will be no charge on the parties, and there will be no sentence on the charge of prosecution. As part of these sentences, the collections made prior to the date of this clause are rejected and extradited until the end of the third month, when the item is applied until the end of the second month, following the date of the item's entry into force. Erol Kadircıoğlu Ahmet Şık Hakkı Saruhan Oluç Garo Paylan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagpipes, Tulay Hatimlari Oğüç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0195par0383	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0194par0384	İstanbul MP Erol Katırcıoğlu wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0196par0387	Mr. President, the valued Regents have been told a lot about the 15th Amendment. Before that, talks on the generality of the law were often mentioned. There's no need to talk too tall, as I understand it, because there's a very simple thing about it: there's a huge mistake that management has made, in conclusion, that people feel trapped, and from what I've seen, there are people who owe money to people who owe $110,000 when I look at the list. So we're about to make a pardon for these fines, and let's do it, I mean, as a result, it could have been some kind of pre-season bonus to the people in question. But once again, friends, as the six have been drawn, the fact that this decision has come before us as a law clause, and that it will soon pass by you with your votes does not stop us from asking the question: Why does the government give up a price of about $330 million when it needs so much resources? I think the answer to that question is, if you go away because the $330 million source corresponds to 275,000 people, and most of these people live in Istanbul, then basically, it's possible to comment that the main reason why this law came to us was the Istanbul elections, and if you want to know the truth, I'm making a comment like that. But now I would like to talk about something else, and I really want to talk about a recent discussion that we've had, about the KPSS exams and the way the ▪ infiltrated state institutions. Now, friends, I have been speaking here from time to time, and I've been trying to emphasize in these talks that I've been uncomfortable with the way this Parliament works, the Civil Code. I mean, there's a lot of things that aren't supposed to be happening to me, and it's happening. However, one way such an organization could infiltrate state institutions was through the KPSS tests we talked about the other day, and many tests by the SNSM. And we understand that they have infiltrated the government by stealing questions from these exams. But, friends, we understand another thing: this is the Civil Code, which is essentially..... that can always get a chance to enter or influence the institutions of the state of Turkey. Look, I'll give you an example: there's a university founding within this law, as you know. A university is being established, it could be, we need college, it needs college, it's good, but when we asked questions about who this university is going to be built by, and why, we didn't get a proper answer. In fact, we said, let's stop getting answers, for example: "Don't you have an official? Isn't this a special commission, especially called the Plan and Budget Commission, that has applied to build the University of Galata in Istanbul and has received approval from the YÖK? Let's ask a question, see what kind of university they're thinking about? But, friends, that didn't happen, as you can imagine. When we looked at it, it quickly went away. Now, then, what comes to mind is, how did it happen? From what I understand, you're going to raise your hands now, you're probably going to support this decision, but I'm sure -- or I'm pretty sure -- 90 percent of you don't know why this foundation is being founded, why this university is going to be built. Yeah, I'm guessing you don't know, that's my opinion, if there's one, it's the other. At least for the Commission, it's possible to understand that when this issue comes to the Commission, the friends in the Commission are not involved in the matter. Now, friends, you can say, "Ya, there's RDC behind this." The SEC was there, as it turns out. Since the YKK has allowed you to do so, you are also logically correct in this, but the 15 universities that were closed, which belonged to the Fetullah Gülen movement, were established with the approval of the YAK; yes, it was established with the approval of the YOK, and the SEC did not account for them.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0197par0393	Pack it up, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0196par0394	However, a debate has not yet been held about foundation universities, but the deaf sultan in Egypt -- they have heard about it -- because the foundation universities in Turkey have a foundation foundation, the institutions are excluded from taxes, taking advantage of some of the state's opportunities, and friends are working as a business operation. I know that 90 percent of them are like that, and I can tell you that as a person who lived within his own mind. As a result, my dear, well -- from what I've learned from the press -- the founder of this Cloud Foundation, sir, is also known to our President. You can say that, and so you can raise your hand and confirm it through such a trust relationship. But, friends, then my sentence would be a legitimate sentence: the Justice and Development Party administration is the sole party administration, the one-management administration, and I'd like to say that you can't and can't manage a society with 80 million and so many differences like Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0198par0398	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th article of the Law Proposal be removed from its bidding text. With all due respect. Ali Öztunç Inspiration Özcan Aygun Mustafa Adıl Özcan Special Serkan Topal Faruk Sarıaslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0199par0409	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0198par0410	Nevşehir MP Faruk Sarıaslan wants to talk about the proposal. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0200par0414	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Actually, I had a ten-minute request, but we pulled it up to five minutes due to the time of the iftar. The year 1922 has not yet been declared a republic. At that time, I would like to begin with a speech from this bench of the Assembly: ▪ Sirs, the goal of our fight today is full independence. Full independence is possible only through financial independence. When a state lacks independence, independence is crippled in all the vital parts of that state. Because every government body lives on finance. The first requirement for the preservation of financial independence is that the budget is compatible with the economic system and equal. Therefore, it is necessary and possible to find solutions and measures to manage the country with revenue resources without applying abroad to maintain the state structure. The year 1932 is a comprehensive loan and technical aid agreement with the Soviet Union. The Soviets will receive $8.5m in interest-free loans, which will be paid back in goods exports. Aids involved in the deal will be used to establish public enterprises and finance industrial projects. Thanks to these loans and smart investments received from the 1930-1938 period, Turkey, which imported wheat in the early 1930s, became a wheat exporter. The value added in industry increased by 223 per cent during the period, and the production value increased by 388 per cent to 1.2 billion. Congressmans, I'd like to get your attention. Between 1931 and 1938, the money of the Republic of Turkey was valued at 68 per cent compared to $1.12, from $2.12 to 1.12. Foreign debts from the Ottomans have been paid. During the same period, a total of 3,387km long railway lines held by foreign companies were purchased and nationalized. From the republic's ad to 1938, the railway was built and served for 2,815km. The ports of Izmir were taken from foreign states in 1925 and Haydarpaşa Harbor in 1927, where its administration was seized. In 1927, the Fractured Armory Factory was built, and many factories were built that I couldn't count. This founding will, especially the importance of air power, has seen clearly in recent wars, knowing that in order to ensure the existence of the same strong and independent state, you must have a strong army, which will be possible with the establishment of a national defence industry. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which some have had to say recently, is in the sky. The nations who cannot protect their heavens can never be sure of their future. ▪ The construction of all our rations and engines in our homeland and the construction of the air war industry according to this account. In 1925 Tayyare and Motor Turk Anonymous were founded, and its location was designated Kayseri because of its strategic importance. This factory, founded in Kayseri, produced 112 different types of aircraft until World War II. I regret to inform you that in 1950, the aircraft-building factory was transformed into an airplane maintenance and repair facility. You know how the AK PARTY people often use it: "Where are you going?" Now, where are you going? Seventeen years of AKP power: 2002, $1.573; 2019, $6.100; 400 per cent increased. We've become importers of wheat from the outside. In 2002, the foreign debt, which was $129.6 billion, was $495 billion as of 2019. The sold military tank pallet factory... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, we're almost there.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0201par0424	Mr. Free, this is a comprehensive conversation.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0200par0425	I'm almost done. I'm almost done. There was no trust in the law at this time, the national education has become a sabbatical, the education system is broken, the tradesman is in debt, unemployment has taken over, the people have lost their heads, the poor, the valiant, the poor, the dry onions. In order to remain in power for a few more years, the ruling owners interfered with the country's election, its chest, its will by using law. Remember, one day the law will be needed for everyone. The only way to get the country out of this situation is to return to the spirit of 1922-1938, which I was just talking about, and move on by adapting that spirit and faith to our present day. It's a celebration of everyone's holiday, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0202par0429	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 16 of the Law Proposal, I propose and propose that the declaration of the Law shall be changed under the terms referred to. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Tuba Öral Pekal Muhammet Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0203par0438	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0202par0439	It's Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk who wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0204par0442	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Good PARTI Group on Article 16 of the proposed law. I salute your high council. The AK PARTY, again, as always, puts everything in the bag to take another step to reset the state's corporate memory. There's nothing in the bag. According to the EC PARTI (AK PARTI) looking for an exit in Istanbul to correct its face, regulations such as the election-oriented bridge crossing pardon, the massacre of personnel under the crime of thedisiplin in TRT/TRT/TRT/TRT/Dut Cloud Education Foundation, permission to open Galata University in order to open the MTA General Directorate by dividing licenses in the same area and giving more than one license, changing the name of the scrap vehicles, changing the name of the State Department's career structure. Mashallah, it's all about each other. Are you making fun of the High Council? You're ruining the House's reputation. On February 14th, you had already made a general arrangement in the bag of laws involving changes to the Mining Law. What has changed in three months, or what allies have you forgotten that you are adding four more new substances to the Mining Law? I invite you to study more seriously. The general reason for the proposed law is that it has recently been reported that it has been prepared to meet demands from our citizens and the needs of public institutions and institutions. So we're doing politics, we're going out on the street, we're interviewing citizens, but no citizen has ever knocked on our door and said that the university should be opened for a foundation of the sole mother-in-law of Finance Minister Berat. Let's divide our fellow MPs' licenses so that we can get more than one license in the same area. On the same commission, did anyone call you, Mr. Ahmet? Our Zonguldak MP, we're together, we're on the same committee. Does anyone call you to split the licenses? Our citizen...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0205par0446	Sure, it's happening.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0204par0447	If there is, then three months ago, we didn't agree to a citizen's license waiver, but right now, we'd like to divide the licenses of those on the MTA contract. Then why didn't we agree three months ago? They're looking for you, why aren't they looking for us?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0206par0448	That's the right question.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0204par0449	What our citizen wants, we all know; he wants work, he wants bread, he wants bread. Just last week, two of our citizens burned themselves to death. A lady who turned the president's way, I finished two universities, I don't have a job. She said, "We've all heard the President's answer: What does your husband do?" Mr. President, not everyone is as lucky as your wife. Her husband is the President and the party leader and everything. How many women, whose son-in-law is in charge of the Treasury, accept American businessmen without any qualifications other than being the first lady, so he doesn't need to work? [[A round of applause from the good parties, noise from the lines of the AK PARTY]] We're not against opening new universities, but it's not acceptable to have a university that can't compete among the best universities in the world, whose academic structures are inadequate, which has no function except to extend the number of young people looking for work for a few more years. Besides, our citizens don't tell you to open university on this matter. They say, "I've finished 2 universities, I'm hungry!" [[What are you shouting from the AK PARTY lines?]] Tell your people what you're yelling about. Here's to the 16th article that regulates the transition of the diplomatic career office we're talking about. For all we know, the State Department was one of the top institutions in the broadest staffing of the region. Thus, the maximum personnel were among the exported institutions via the KYK. In this sense, it is acceptable that the Ministry needs qualified professional officers to represent our country, to conduct our diplomacy. But being a diplomat of a troubled geography like our country and a country now alone in the world, with a long-standing state memory like the State Department, whose career steps are long-term and demanding to work, not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not-not! However, we also wonder how many staff members of the State Department have been discharged, detained, arrested? How many of these personnel began their mission by deceiving you from the end of November 2002?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0207par0458	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0204par0459	Therefore, in order for you not to be deceived again, this arrangement involving the State Department staff's employment, training, appointment, career structure should be handled in detail by the Foreign Commission, especially before it was done in the recent past, and rather than as a one-time thing, staff legislation should be regulated. The main thing is that the positions from the European Union's presidency are officers employed and trained in different profiles. I'll give you a concrete example: an officer working for the presidency of the European Union for eight years won the exam, and with the arrangement -- his eight-year experience is also accepted -- will be the chief secretary of state for a year in a place where the nine-year requirement is required to be the chief clerk. It's hard for this bureaucrat to be useful in the State Department. As I stated at the beginning of my speech, you are taking one step further in the name of painting the institutional memory of our state. He'll turn around, and one day he'll turn around. For this occasion I already celebrate your holy Day of Ramadan, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0208par0463	That's long enough, go on!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0204par0464	That's the only way you're gonna talk about it.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0208par0465	Go on, go on!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0204par0466	That's the only way to talk!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0209par0467	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0208par0468	Go on, you can go! You're out of here!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0204par0469	Where, where do I go? Tell me where to go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0210par0470	Congressman... Yasin Bey...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0211par0471	Sit down!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0212par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0210par0473	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0212par0476	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been suspended from Parliament for their previous talks.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0213par0477	Give it back!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0212par0478	But he's a member of the Navy, so it's up to me. And on behalf of our Denizli residents, I apologize to the General Assembly and to our beloved nation for the constant tension of Congress as Denizli MP, and unfortunately for its heavy language, which does not suit the parliament's tone.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0214par0483	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0215par0484	That's heavy, Cahit. That's heavy.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0214par0485	I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0215par0486	Cahit, it's too much for a friend, but...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0216par0487	What's too much, what's too much?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0488	Are we going to ask cahit uzkan? How do we talk? How do we ask? You'll listen, you'll learn, if you can't handle it, you'll leave, simple as that. Here we go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0489	Are we gonna ask you?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0219par0490	There are two motions on the 17th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0491	Sit down! Fraud! You're here from the big city. The whole of Istanbul knows what a man you are.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0492	You're slandering me! [[The motion has been read by Clerk Member Bursa MP Nurhatyat Altaca Kayışoğlu]] ▪ To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0495	I don't want to say it, I'm ashamed of you! You're the most notorious man in the whole city hall! Everyone knows what you do.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0496	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0497	You're the worst man in Kadir Topbaş!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0498	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0499	Look, I don't want to say it.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0500	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0501	Shame! He'll be ashamed when he talks!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0502	You're slandering me.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0503	Shameless man!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0504	Look at you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0505	Shameless man!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0506	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0507	Sit down! You're rude!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0220par0508	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0509	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0510	You're the guy who came all the way here in the fight and ran away first! You're so young, you shameless man!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0511	I have nothing to be ashamed of! You're a shameless man!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0512	Shame on you! Let's go! You dirty bastard!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0218par0513	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0221par0514	There are two motions on Article 17...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0515	Just answer for what you took from the city! Pay for what you took from the city!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0221par0516	I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0517	You're the head of the Istanbul Mayors! Do you understand what I'm saying? You're the head of the city robbers! [[The motion has continued to be read by Clerk Member Bursa MP Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu]] ▪ To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... You're in charge of robbing the city. Shameless man!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0222par0521	Is that what you're talking about? Thief!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0522	That's why you're yelling.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0223par0523	Don't slander me!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0217par0524	The guy who robbed the city! You dirty man! [[The motion has continued to be read by Clerk Member Bursa MP Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu]] We propose and propose the amendment of Article 17 of the Law Proposal to the amendment of Laws No. 68 and 635. With our regards.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0224par0529	Mr. Turkkan, the motion is being read. [[The motion has continued to be read by Clerk Member Bursa MP Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu]] ▪ Ali Öztunç Inspiration Özcan Aygun Mustafa Adıl Özcan Special Serkan Topal Free Special The second joke of the Interim 6th Article of Unions No. 6356, dated 17-18/10/2012, and of the Common Business Convention Law has been changed in the following way.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0225par0536	This is the guy who robbed the city. [[The motion has continued to be read by Clerk Member Bursa MP Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu]] According to Article 12 of the Law No. 2822, the application for the authority of labour unions, which have at least 10 per cent of the workers working in the office of the Ministry of the 2009 July statistics, and workers' unions established until July 2009/9/2012, will be finalised according to the conditions of the decision-making of the Article 41 of the Act. You apologize for the license plate, Mr. Cahit. The people of the sea are waiting for your apology. Apologize for the license plate!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0226par0540	Everyone knows your license plate in 2011 at Denizli.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0227par0541	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0228par0542	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0227par0543	The Manisa MP who wants to talk about the motion is Free Private. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0229par0546	You've robbed the city, you've come here, you're making a fool of yourself, you rude man! He'll be embarrassed when he talks.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0230par0547	It's you!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0227par0548	Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0231par0549	Mr. President, I've come to the stand to tell you what we're going to say on the 17th article of the bag law, in fact, about a bag of opposition, 16, 17, 18th Articles. If it could be discussed on the day of the 16th Amendment, our Vice President, Mr. Ünal Riot, would have expressed our condolences on the matter that was just accepted. Our criticism of Mr. Akif Hamzacebi was appropriate in his speech on the second chapter. However, we believe that no distinction can be observed in the principle of equality of the law which has just been passed in Article 10 of the Constitution, and in the service of Article 70 of the Article 70, other than the qualifications required by the task. And let us now say that we will take the 16th article to the Constitutional Court in order to control it. The 18th article will be discussed in a moment. Mr. Abdurrahman Tutdere, our Adıyaman MP has fought hard to delay this clause. There's an offer of law, and the Plan and Budget Commission was supposed to be discussed in unification, but he was on a democracy watch in Istanbul. He is not here today, but in Istanbul with his Adıyaman people, Ekrem Imamoglu is fighting for the removal of the victim's victimhood and for everything to be beautiful in June. We're sending a round of applause to all the friends of our group who are fighting there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The 18th article will postpone the arrangement that sentences domestic tobacco to three years. We demand more delays in our motion, we will, and we will read the reason, but the question is, since the Ministry has not issued the regulations, we have given a mandate as legislation, the Ministry will adopt regulations, the tobacco producers will be cooperative and unable to do their part. In this regard, we're warning the Ministry once again from here. Now, let's go to the 17th article, where we have a motion on it. What's item 17? The Article 41 of the Common Business Contract Act is a provision of a postponement of the restrictions imposed on the unions. At first, we said the restrictions were wrong here years ago. From that day on, we said, "You can't apply it. If you do it, there will be great injustice." First it was postponed for three months. We arrived a year later, postponed the second postponement a year. The third time, we put it off for two years. Now you're postponing another year. But the commissioner said, "Let's talk to all the parties, consider the three-year postponement demands, if necessary, we should do it here." We talked about it yesterday. Lawmakers from the labour world in five parties argue that the issue should be postponed for three years. So, what do the confederations say? I showed them their wet signatures yesterday, May 29th, May 28, May 25th, in their writing, TÜRK-İSK, HAK-İSK and DİSK respectively: Aman says: Aman, let all workers delay three years. Why is he resisting? Because it's his business, not his laborer, not his sweat. Instead of maintaining the sweat of his work as required, he takes care of the business world where he received his plaque at 5:30 today, and he does what they say. We face a challenge: The minister is single-handedly appointed, not appointed, under the will of Parliament. We testify to your oath on this stand, but we're not responsible, we're not disposable, we don't vote for it, we can't give it to you, we can't, but it's like Madame has a gold stake in Turkey's democracy, 51 percent, she can't. Mr. Commissioner says: "If each side would agree, only the Minister says no." Well, who made this minister say no? It's not the worker's request. He's in the Ministry of Labor, but he's got capital that makes him say no. Stand up to the minister of capital as we say. He's ruling over this House because he said so. Now, back in the day, to those who complained about bureaucratic oligarchy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0232par0558	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0231par0559	So instead of three speakers, we've been talking and putting together a little, uh, three-pointer... Now, he's going to come back in time to fight the Erdemite Movement 3Y. The struggle with bureaucratic oligarsh, the first hundred days, the five hundred days of action... isn't that right? Look, you've brought Turkey into the bosom of bureaucratic oligarchy. An assigned person, a technician, unelected, unsupervised, decides today's next vote. The next vote will be rejected by three confederations, all workers, from the labour world, from all political parties, from the labour struggle MPs from the labour world, but not by the minister who advocates the rights of the capital, but by the minister who defends the rights of capital. This motion will be rejected; it will be limited to a year, not three years, but as it is in the proposal. Make up your mind. You are the chosen nation of the elected government. Is it possible that Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who said, "You are the first Sinop MP to come here and open this House, and that you are the first Sinop MP to be seated. As a member of the Assembly he started, will you take over your will, or will you take over the mission you were given, or the engineer who was created by the Constitutional amendment who intended for the regime? He says give you no. People, workers, DİSK, HAK-İK, Turkish-İSK tell you to vote for this motion. We'll see the verdict, we'll make an example of it and write it down on the history pages. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0233par0563	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 17 of Law Proposal 68 in the following way. "The second joke of the Interim 6th Article of Unions No. 6356, dated 17-18/10/2012, has been changed as follows. According to Article 12 of Law No. 2822, the application for authorization of workers' unions, which have at least 10 per cent of the workers' members at the office of the Ministry of the 2009 July statistics, and workers' unions established until 15/9/2012, will be completed within the year of the adoption of this joke, according to the conditions of the 41st article. Ahmet Şık Erol Kadircıoğlu Necdet İpekım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Garo Paylan Hak Saruhan Oluç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0234par0576	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0233par0577	Batman MP Necdet İpekı who wants to talk about the motion. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0235par0580	Mr. President, dear Regents, every time we talk about the weakness of our democracy, the problems we face, our greatest wish is for democracy to develop. And when we say why it's not sitting, sometimes it sounds out of place. But we do know that for the development of a democratic society, societies usually look at NGOs, unions, as the greatest criteria. On the contrary, we're supposed to increase trade union life, but we need to strengthen NGOs, and unfortunately, we're trying to stop them. As a matter of fact, one of the most non-unioned countries in the OECD countries is Turkey. 90 per cent of the workers in Turkey are not unionists, and we tried to make it even more difficult to correct these problems with the constitution of coups. And at the stage we're bringing up, sometimes when we're talking about a union, we're supposed to be working, we're supposed to be working, we're supposed to be on the side of the sweat of the forehead, but it's just as the hat said, it's like the employers' unions come to mind, the confederacy of the employers' unions. Now, what Turkish AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in a speech in April 2018: "The times when this country was governed by the State of Emergency were not the times when we were implementing the State of Emergency decisions. Factories would go on strike all the time, unable to work. I'd like to address the entire industry: Is there such a strike in one factory, including this 7th State of Emergency? When something like this happens, what's our biggest handle anyway? The State of We're doing our immediate intervention. The State of Emergency is a very serious solution. And in this process, the industry in Turkey has not stopped, it has continued to work intensively, and they will never be able to stop it. He tells it to the workers when he talks to the bosses in April 2018. Now, can you imagine if he finds the concept of the extraordinary state of things as a solution to the restoration of general strikes or labour strikes, calling out to the industrialists. Again, other than using the State of Emergency as an excuse for the crisis, we bring all kinds of obstacles to the ban on strikes, except for many jobs. When we come to the employer, we bribe, we bring tax forgiveness, we bring incentives, we bring bonuses, and the last thing we're trying to do is separate funds from individual pension insurance, but when it comes to workers, the people are gone, and we're blocking them with unions. Just two days ago, the hunger limit was declared, the poverty limit was declared; 7,000 liras. The hunger limit is above minimum wage. No one here talks about the situation of the workers, about the employer. See what Mr. Erdogan says again, at the end of 2018, in December: "The events with us have been eliminated." Now there are no strikes. If there's no strike, then you're honoring the worker, upholding his law. In this society, then, if the strikes are usually minimal, we have created a non-responsive society, and the workers are happy. Friends, even when you're in a commercial cab today, when you're going somewhere, when the cops are there, if the scorpion's there, there's a press release about a rights struggle, or the workers are saying their rights. But they've just said that the Ministry of Labor and Social Services is called the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, which should be part of the work ministry and social responsibilities; 5 political parties, 3 confederations agreed on this issue, not a year, but three years longer, while demanding it to be extended, which means that there is a problem in the law itself -- the minister gets an award with the employers' unions in Istanbul, not with the workers' unions. So you're going to elections, you're talking about workers, you're trying to prevent all workers' work, you're trying to make their strikes extraordinaryly, people can't pay their rent anymore, people can't afford their children's student clothes anymore, there's an apocalypse when they're told to explain the press, you wake up, you give them pictures when they're going to the polls in Istanbul. I'm sure all workers, plus unorganised workers in the DİSK, TÜRK-İSK and Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll put you through.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0236par0589	Pack it up, Mr. Silkface.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0235par0590	...and non-union workers will give enough answers to the AKP government, which stands in their way, both in the Istanbul elections and in many other things. As long as there is no right, freedom and organisation in Turkey, it will never progress. And here, Mr. Secretary, it says Noah, not Prophet. Look, you guys, all the parties, the Commission and the confederations say yes and the Minister says no. Come on, let's get this up to three years. Thank you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0236par0593	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 18th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Law Proposal 68 be changed in the following manner. The statement was changed in Article 123 of Article 123 of the Law (e) by some Tax Laws No. 28/11/2017 and some other Laws No. 7061. Ahmet Şık Erol Kadircıoğlu Hüseyin does not run Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Garo Paylan Hak Saruhan Oluç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0237par0606	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0236par0607	Şırnak MP Hüseyin would not run away if he wanted to talk about the motion. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0238par0610	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding Article 18 of Law Proposal 68 under discussion. But first, I would like to point out that the bag of legislation, which is a method of making an exceptional law, unfortunately, in the AKP administration, the fact that almost all laws are now being made in the form of a bag of law instead of the exception, will, frankly, put the AKP's power at risk of being referred to in the future as authoritarian power. Again, in the 18th article that is now being discussed... it has not yet completed its two years. A change in the law against tobacco manufacturers, which has sparked great public debate. Unfortunately, at the request of the tobacco cartels, the AKP's ruling passed a law that would victimise hundreds of thousands of tobacco manufacturers. And right now he's trying to patch this bag up somehow by bringing a partial palliative solution in front of these victims, but this patch is not going to hold, so let's just say it's too much of a victim. During the AKP ruling period, cigarettes were constantly raised. Following these hikes, the citizen turned the smokers into rolling tobacco this time, but this caused the market of international tobacco cartels to shrink, and thus demanded a legal arrangement from the AKP's government. After that, the AKP was constantly comparing power to 2002 and now. Yes, I'm going to give you a summary of the state of the tobacco manufacturers before 2002 and now. Before 2002, Turkey produced 210,000 tonnes of tobacco and is now producing 60,000 tonnes. Before 2002, there were 520,000 tobacco manufacturers, but unfortunately there are 50,000 tobacco manufacturers now. So that means that hundreds of thousands of people in Adıyaman and many other cities around him are out of work. The situation clearly reveals that the tobacco cartels have demanded and received this law from the AKP's power in order to take over the capital, all this tobacco market, and now hundreds of thousands of our citizens are victims. But I also want to give you an example from history that for the first time in Turkey, tobacco manufacturers were not massacred: Prior to the Ottoman era, tobacco was handed over to the Tobacco Regime, the French company, along with the Duyun-i Publiciye. At that time, the Anatolian farmer could not sell tobacco to anyone but the regime. In the process, about 20,000 Anatolian villagers were killed on the charge of smuggling tobacco, and now hundreds of thousands of our people are being left unemployed. This is not an acceptable situation. But then, in the early part of the republic, TEKEL was established and bought, but unfortunately, during AKP rule, TEKEL was sold to British American Tobacco, or Americans. I just want to point out a few more things, directly, the demand of tobacco manufacturers. They want the local manufacturers to clear their way. The market share of international tobacco cartels is over 90 per cent, and tobacco consumption is also imported at this stage. We feel it's imperative that domestic capitals be supported, businesses supported, domestic producers be protected. Unfortunately, however, in Şırnak and the surrounding provinces, which are my constituencies due to the lack of tobacco producers, as well as the Anti-Trafficking Act 5607, there is a major loss. Ten cartons, 20 cartons, 100 or 200 lira worth of cigarettes, unfortunately, people are struggling with criminal files. Tens of thousands of people are on trial right now, 10 cartons, 20 cartons of cigarettes. Right now, thousands are prisoners in prison, in the region, without exception, not one of our drivers working in logistics, working abroad without a record. Unfortunately, with tens of thousands of drivers on trial, it's more than millions in the family. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I will.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0239par0618	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0238par0619	We also want to consider this victimization because there are constant complaints from the region. Again, I'd like to address another complaint from my constituency. As you know, most of our cities have been destroyed, destroyed by the conflict in the region during the curfew. By the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the relevant administrations, we will pay rent to the citizens until they deliver the buildings. It has been said that they have not been paid for about seven or eight months or so, but the TOKI buildings are not being delivered. And the AKP Şırnak mayor's candidate, as an election bribe during the election period, we will hand over these agencies without debt. They tried to hand over the other day as debtors, despite what he said. We're not gonna accept this, we're not gonna let that happen. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0240par0622	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 18 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in Article 635 and to some Number 68. With all due respect. Ali Öztunç Inspiration Özcan Aygun Mustafa Adıl The first article (e) of Article 123 of Article 123 (e) of some Tax Laws No. 28/11/2017 and some other Laws No. 7061, has been changed to the term "31/12/2020). Is the commission in?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0241par0633	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0240par0634	I'm reading the reason for the motion: The date in the article is recommended as 31/12/2020. I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 19th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "I demand and propose that the declaration of 15,000 Turkish liras, which is included in Article 19 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under which there is a meeting, be replaced with "20.000 Turkish liras. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Tuba Öral Pekal Muhammet Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0242par0648	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0240par0649	He wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0243par0652	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group regarding the 19th amendment of the law proposal. I salute you all with the utmost respect. Dear MPs, Article 19/2/2018 of the proposed law shall be changed in Article 1 of Article 1 of the Interim Article 1 of the Law on the Amendment to Tax Laws No. 7103 and Some Laws and Laws. The change aims to increase the amount left from the special consumption tax in the purchase of new vehicles, depending on the defibrillation of 16-year-old and older vehicles, from 10,000 Turkish liras to 15,000 Turkish liras. Dear lawmakers, I realize that time is getting shorter, and iftar is getting closer, but I don't want to leave this bench until my constituency speaks of something related to Tripoli. This is the issue: very valuable lawmakers, when we enter the tourist season, I would like to bring to the attention of a matter that I think will generally affect the country's tourism but largely the negative impact of my electoral environment, the Trabzon tourism. Recently, a black propaganda from Saudi Arabia is being conducted without its original lining. When we look at news from both the national and Tripoli local media, the president of Riyadd's Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Saudi Arabia has made statements both on social media and in the Saudi press that defame Turkey, framing and slanderous. The person in question is warning you not to travel from Saudi Arabia to Turkey by crossing the line with many slanderous allegations against Saudi citizens. Dear MPs, when this defamation campaign, which is focused on harming tourism, succeeds, the Black Sea region will be the most affected in our country, and the city that will be most affected is the city of Tripoli, my city. That's why tourism investors in Tripoli are concerned, because many investors have made investments in Arab tourism -- hotels, restaurants, cafes, auto rentals -- but with this growing black propaganda, a possible reduction in the number of Arab tourists is going to put firms and business owners in a difficult position, God forbid. I fear that the Arab tourism and 400,000 tourists we boast of will not come to our country because of this black propaganda. I'm afraid that due to the cancellations, many hotels and businesses will be closed and employees will be in a difficult position. If this is not taken care of, the already existing economic crisis will hit Tripoli much more. In the District of Tripoli, NGOs and tourism investors are trying to do something about it. Just a day ago, tourism investors and local media members gathered together, talking about what we could do to do something, but here I think diplomatic channels between the two countries should be run. At this point, the government must take action against possible bad developments; the necessary steps must be taken at the point of resolving this matter between the state department and the state department. Tripolin wants these initiatives to be carried out immediately before the tourist season, without possible casualties. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute our great coven with the greatest respect. I congratulate you on your blessed Kadir Night and wish you a happy holiday.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0244par0659	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 19 of Law Proposal 68 in the following way. The 19-MADDE of 21/3/2019 and the 1st amendment to some Laws and Laws of 7103 have been changed in the form of the 1st Article of the Law, the 1st Amendment to the 1st Article of the Law. Ahmet Şık Erol Kadircıoğlu Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Garo Paylan Hak Saruhan Oluç Hasyar Özsoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0245par0671	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0244par0672	Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan wants to talk about the motion. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0246par0675	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, in recent years we've been talking about guns, tanks, cannons, missiles, and the latest popular agenda is S400. Will Turkey take the S400, or not?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0247par0677	He'll get it, he'll get it.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0246par0678	Every day we're going to buy friends. We're going to try but we're going to get them. Next thing we know, the dollar goes up to 6.25. Yesterday, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan meets with President of the United States, and the dollar goes down to 5.80. So there's an S400 decision that affects our lives that much, even the dollar bill. Look, in the last four years, we've lost our peace and prosperity, friends, by splitting a significant portion of our budget into weapons. Of course, American addiction is a bad thing, we have to get rid of it. We haven't been able to get away with this for sixty years. Of course we have to get rid of this, but is Russian addiction such a good thing, friends? Look, in energy, in natural gas, we depend on over 60 percent of Russia. So if Russia shuts down the valve, you know, we'll burn the turd here. And as if that wasn't enough, the nuclear power plant project has been activated, and we're going to be dependent on more and more Russia in energy. So, when we get the S400, are we gonna be horny, guys? So is it too good to be dependent on Russia in that sense? Look, the deputy director of the MHP group gave a long speech yesterday defending the S400. That's exactly what Germany says: Germany has drawn the Dutch Patriot systems, Turkey is vulnerable. I'm not saying this because I'm defending NATO. NATO was asked for Patriot missile systems in 2013, and Germany, the United States, the Netherlands, and Spain's Patriot system are now in Adana. Does anyone know? Does anyone say that to our citizen? Spain's Patriot system is in Adana, Italy's systems are now in Marashan, and Turkey, in June, I want to continue using these systems, extend that time. It's unguarded, it says we have to get an S400. And, friends, aside from the political cost of S400, what will be the cost of economics? One missile, one battery, 2.5 billion dollars. We'll make the Russians rich when we can solve the problems of all retirementers with that battery alone. How many do we get? We'll take ten, the system's $25 billion. It's an addiction to Russia. So, what's an F35? It's a $12 billion project. With this, we'll make American arms companies rich. But we also have a third way, my friends. Look, the third road is to strengthen our country financially and democratically and to develop our own systems in every sense. Why should you be dependent on America, Russia? If we need defense systems, what we need to do is to maintain social peace and regional peace and not give up these missile systems, to invest in guns, tanks, cannons, not in social peace. But I'm ashamed to say something to you guys. Look, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan made a big deal with Trump yesterday on the phone, obviously. Trump said: "I have a hostage in you; Serkan Shadow, NASA employee, American citizen himself, leave it. And Serkan Shadow was released after that phone call, my friends, and a convicted person. Yes, he was a hostage, but he was taken hostage, and Trump says today: "Thank Recep Tayyip Erdogan for leaving the hostage we tried to take." Guys, is Turkey a banana republic? If a president threatens, pressures a president, somehow gets a convict out of here, this place becomes a banana republic. Brunson had a crisis last year, so Trump said: "I called Ben Tayyip Erdoğan, you'd better let Brunson go, and I got Brunson." What happened? One more threat and another hostage taken. No hostages and no threats like that, fellas. That's how Merkel took Deniz Yücel, and he was a hostage. Friends, doesn't this put our country in shame? Look, there are thousands of hostages inside, citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Who will save them? Together, we must save, strengthen our legal system and strengthen our country in every sense, without being condemned to S400 missiles, F35 projects. What's Trump threatening us with? I'll destroy your economy if you buy an S400 missile. He says he can, as a matter of fact, put an embargo on it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0248par0688	Complete it, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0246par0689	The important thing is that our country is strong in every way and that we are not doomed to America, Russia, missiles, guns, planes. U.S. addiction is not a good thing, and Russian addiction is not a good thing, friends. If we're thinking about our country's independence, let's all strengthen our country on a democratic road, on an economic road, let's keep our peace internally, let's make our peace regionally, and let's not enrich Russian weapons systems and American companies, friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0249par0692	Mr. President, a brief statement...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0250par0693	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0249par0696	The speaker has made some statements referring to the speech we had yesterday regarding the S400. It is a reality that the Netherlands, the United States, and Germany have drawn the Patriot missile systems from Turkey, where there has been no misleading statement. Plus, when you were talking about the S400... While Mr. Paylan was speaking earlier, I told him that there were two batteries in my seat... There are already two batteries in Parliament's records; they have limited diameters, and Turkey's need for air defence missile systems is not in Turkey's hands right now, and Turkey is vulnerable in this sense, and we stand behind it to the end of our promise. We have some evidence to prove it, technically or in the military sense. We can offer it to them when they're asked. I wanted to clear that up. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0250par0701	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are no motions on Article 20. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 87 of the Civil Code, new amendment proposals, which bring additional and change in the non-controversial laws, are not being implemented. This motion to our presidency must not be processed because it is of this nature, but I will take this motion, given by the agreement of groups and joint signatures, as a precedent. Now I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly, with 16 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the following clause to the current Law Proposal 68 and other substances to be identified accordingly. Cahit Özkan Lütfu Türkkan Mohammed Levent Bulbül Free Special Mehmet Doğan Kubat It is dated 4/11/1983 and added the following temporary clause to the Law on Publicisation 2942. "Despite the fact that publicisation has not been completed or its formalisation has not been completed, court decisions on property rights cannot be carried out until after 4/11/1983 have been officially assigned to public service or assigned to a need for public benefit, provided that the facilities have been established in part or in part or in part or by the establishment of resources, without the fiscal consent or legal consent or the legal hand have been issued, until the court's decisions on property rights are finalised. Prior to the date of this clause's execution, the executions launched based on unconfirmed court decisions will be halted until the court's decision is issued. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0251par0717	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0250par0718	Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. Question-answer? No. I submit the new clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the new clause has been accepted and added to the proposal. In order not to cause any confusion, the motion process will then be continued through the matter numbers in the current number of rows in the text, which will be identified in matter numbers during the writing of the law. Members of parliament, there is another motion for the new clause violation, which I will take into consideration as a precedent, as we have just explained. I'll now read the motion and present it to the Commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly, with 16 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit to Law Proposal 68, which is currently in session, that the following clause be added after Article 20, and that other substances be identified accordingly. Free Private Erkan Akçay Mehmet Mush Lütfü Türkkan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Fatma Surkan Those who have served for at least three years on the payroll of the Treasury and Finance Administration and the Ministry of Finance, and who have not received any disciplinary action in the past three years, except for the date of the examination, and who have not received any disciplinary fines, who have been assigned to their institutions twice over the past five years, who have been assigned to the Bookkeeping Experts and Experts, who have been appointed to their institutions, and who have been appointed by the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, and who have been appointed by the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0252par0733	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0250par0734	Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. Question-answer? No. I submit the new clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the new clause has been accepted and a new clause has been added to the proposal. In order not to cause any confusion, the motion process will then be continued through the matter numbers in the current number of rows in the text, which will be identified as matter numbers during the writing of the law. There are two motions on the 21st article, and I will act according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st amendment of Article 21 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. 1 0 days after the publication of this Law, it will take effect. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Tuba Öral Pekal Muhammet Naci Cinisli Fahrettin Yoshüştü Behic Yasin Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0253par0749	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0250par0750	It's Mr. Yasin Ozturk of Denizli who wants to talk about the motion. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0254par0753	Mr. President, I've taken a vow on the matter of the law, but I'm only going to make a brief statement on the fact that I've made an apology to the members of the white party group, the vice president, on my behalf, to the citizens of Deniz. First of all, I'm a good PARTI MP, and on behalf of me, there's no way that the white party vice president of the group can apologize. For those of you who know the license plate he's been carrying in the past years, and for those who don't, let me tell you, for those of you who don't know, if there's anyone who should apologize to the people of the sea for being part of this traitorous terrorist organization, it's your white party group deputy. I saw this: you threw his tea man, his soup guy in jail, but you made him deputy leader because he carried his license plate. Thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0255par0758	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0256par0759	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0255par0762	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, our love of the sea, our love of the sea. When we approach the holiday, of course, when the name of our Denizli is mentioned, we have to explain our Denizli on the stand. Our naval alperans, the Ahi organizations, who carry all the beauty of our civilization, all the fine examples of modern urbanism as Turkey's 8th largest export city.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0257par0764	Tell me about yourself, about yourself.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0255par0765	...the city of vision, the city of our Aegean, the shining star of our country, which bears all the fine examples of purity, purity, beauty, tolerance, respect and respect for modern urbanism. Yes, I beg you to consider our Denizli in these concepts. That nation's bench has never been a stand where lies and slander are expressed, and it never will be. I'll never let that happen. Now, you'll see, I declare, in the eyes of the judicial authorities, we're going to take our compensation for the slander that has just been made against me, and, God willing, lawmakers, I'm going to offer you the most beautiful banquets. I congratulate you again on your holiday, and salute you with respect and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0258par0769	Give me your license plate, just your license plate!
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0255par0770	I'll answer for him in court, I swear to God, I'll ask for him. Look, I don't know what kind of lie...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0258par0772	We just want your license plate, nothing more.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0255par0773	And your relationship with...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0258par0774	You were in front of the Fenerbahçe Army house, not me.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0259par0778	Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 21 of Law Proposal 68 in the following way. Cahit Özkan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can (PHP 3, PHP 4) - It's the law. A) The 20th article is on the date of its release from 9/7/2018. B) In the date of its release of other substances, It's in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0260par0791	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0261par0792	Motive...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0259par0793	I'm reading the reason: The date of the Articles is being made. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 21st Amendment to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are no motions on Article 22. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Members of the Parliament, the Council of Ministers has a request according to Article 89 of the Interior Charter on the renegotiation of Article 14 of the Charter and Budget Commission, which will meet this request. I'm reading the Council's opinion on the Commission's request for a renegotiate of Article 14 of the Law Proposal. The request of the President of the Plan and Budget Commission for renegotiation of Article 14 of Article 14, adopted in Article 30/5/2019 of the General Assembly of Law Proposal 68 under Article 89/2019 has been approved by the Council of Counsellors. Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Fatma Survivor Mohammed Levent Nightingale Peoples' Democratic Party Group National Movement Party Group You will be informed of the opinion of the Council of Counsellors. Now I'll have the Commission read your request and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of Law Proposal 68 be renegotiated according to Article 89 of the Civil Charter. President of Plan and Budget Commission I submit the commission's request to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In that case, I am renegotiating Article 14 of the proposal. Anyone want a word on the 14th? No. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There is a demand and demand to be removed from the proposal text of Article (3) of Law No. 5686, which is envisioned to be replaced by the renegotiated Article No. 68 of Law Proposition 68. Cahit Özkan Lütfü Türkkan Fatma Surkan Free Special Mohammed Levent Nightingale Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0262par0840	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0259par0841	I'm reading the reason: The need to make this change on the basis of what is seen. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Now, in accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 14th article has been passed. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards who have not been able to get into the system to the presidential office during the time they've been given a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The open vote has come to a conclusion, I read it: İstanbul MP Nevzat Şatoğlu and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chairman Tokat Özlem Güzel and 61 MPs have reached an open vote on amendments to the Constitutional Court of Laws: ▪ Number of votes used: 239 [[x]] Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Bayram Özçelik The offer has been accepted and legalized.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0263par0865	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0259par0866	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0263par0869	Mr. President, we need to clarify our position on something. There's a bag of laws, there's stuff we're very opposed to, there's stuff we support. It's already the bag law... the same branch of the Constitution and the Civil Code, which is the same law, and that's the basic definition of the law and the bag law that it says you can meet if it's too long, if it's too long, and that's the basis of our objections. So, for example, we opposed the material that made it possible to build geothermal facilities in cultural-tourism; we signed the joint motion to remove it, voted. For example, we found a year's postponement right for the Adıyamanian tobacco manufacturer, supported, voted, but voted against the other negatives. Come on, vote for all of them. We didn't vote for all of them as a group. For example, we'll take the matter about foreign relations to the Constitutional Court, but the situation here is that it's the warp of the bag of law logic, and you vote for the whole of it. What you don't support, on the one hand, is the substance that you support; it's not one vote for all of them. I'm using this promise so everyone can see how bad the bag bill is and see what a wrong way to live. Our attitude has been that we should not vote on the whole. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0264par0874	We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal Number 69, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks by Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, Turkish Parliament Speaker of the Grand National Assembly, Azerbaijan Republic Government, Georgia Government and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, in accordance with the Azerbaijan Law Proposal and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 17 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole offer? No. Talks have been completed on the entire proposal. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AZERBAYAN REPUBLICATION, GÜRCISTAN PRODUCTION AND TURKEY REPUBLICITY ACTIVITY ACTIVITY CONTROL AGREATION AZERBAN REPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 31 March 2018 in Giresun. The Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Government of Georgia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The first word on the 1st article is for the Republican People's Party's Democratic Party (HDP) MP Mehmet Ali Çelebi (Izmir). Here you go, Mr. Çelebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0265par0894	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. Our braves, Lt. Rashit Aydın, Specialist Sergeant Mehmet Taşhan, were killed in Operation Talon, which was held against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the north of Iraq. I'm saying thanks to the Turkish nation, for the country. But we can't go beyond condolences, we always offer our condolences, we always hope for success. Right now, I'd like to talk to you about the problems of 250,000 professionals, Mehmet-chik, in ten minutes. Contracted men: Contracted men at the bottom of the professional pyramid. 24/7, they stick together for three years; they do it professionally, but they stick together, like they're in prison, like they're in modern innovation. Seven years later, they're suspended, sent away. So we're taking advantage of their most productive time, saying good-bye, goodbye, without giving them any rights. It's not acceptable. Because of their residence within the Union, their families are disbanded and divorce cases are very high. Contracted men have no opportunity to benefit from rights such as escort permits, visas, road fees, minimum income reductions, family benefits and child welfare. The rights to transfer from a spouse are limited. Degrees and levels are deprived of basic labour rights, such as pension rights, severance pay. The Turkish Armed Forces were unable to benefit from the 400 lira improvement hike in January 2018, they were left out and, as not done, loans were issued to contracting contractors due to a malfunction in the payroll system. Rental aid for martyrs and veterans isn't for contractors. Even when they're martyrs, there's discrimination. The salary for the relatives of the martyr is less than given to other martyrs, even there is discrimination. We make him fight, we don't give him a gun. No sign of rank for professional motivation. Now that we've given you the shahit, I've just told you, Specialist Sergeant Mehmet Taşhan- to the rights of our seniors: our experts work with contracts, they have no staff. If they get 90 days of air change in a year, if they get a rest, there's no contract, the contract is terminated. The state gives weapons to the neighborhood watchman, no gun to the sergeant-at-arms. They don't have a master sergeant's school to increase their technical capabilities. There's a seniority in the government staff, no specialists. A one-year sergeant and a 20-year sergeant. Ten percent of the transfer from sergeant to petty officer. Everyone has a family life, no specialists. He goes to Hakkari, he is assigned to Kayseri on temporary duty, I will go to the west, I will relax. He rejoices that the army in Kayseri has been given to Şırnak, and these temporary tasks are not counted from the eastern service. Yeah, they live in the East for years. Everybody's got an apartment, no attendings, 5%. You're thinking of giving the 3,600 additional indicators to the imam that would make him pray if he were a martyr, and you're not thinking about giving them to the specialist. There are no watch regulations, no permit regulations, no appointment regulations, no descriptive materials in the Health Code; no courses, no reward regulations, no registration regulations. And then there's victim number 6000. To be catchy, I'd like to tell you about victims number 6000: Imagine that an expert officer works six thousand days as an expert officer, 15 to 20 years. At 45 years of age, you spend six days as a civil servant, six days as a civil servant, and then retire as a civil servant from the lowest official status of a civil servant. Is there such a thing as a victim? He's going to be chief of staff for 20 years, one day -- even one day -- you're going to serve as a civil servant, you're going to retire as a civil servant, you're going to victimize. There's such a thing as a victim, and you didn't solve it even though you promised. There are friends who are retired from disability due to non-employment diseases, they call them "disabled disability" -- its name is so ugly, it's supposed to be in health care -- and their salaries need to be returned to 1,300 lira; they need to be returned to 2008. As for the top layer, our petty officers: The promise of duty to our petty officers has not been fulfilled, this promise has not been fulfilled. It may be a fair working environment for graduates of the university of applied sciences to start at the first level of the 8th degree. When our petty officers retire, they get 49 percent of what they get when they're decent; it's very low, and it needs to be increased. They're studying at a high school level. At this time, even 60 percent of our attendings are now licensed, so they need to move to the license level. If we want a solution, we need to get the retired petty officers to the first degree to four percent of 1, so 7 thousand people are saved; and if we take those who have failed to fall to the first degree, those who have retired to the first degree to the first degree, if we take them to the first part, 2,000 people will get out of there, and the solution will come. Now, to the top layer, our contract sergeants and officers: these are actually 2,000-2. A mass of 500 people. These officers can make it to the captainship, and the petty officers can make it as far as staff sergeant. Now we're going to make a general of Eden. You're saying that they're staying here, even though they work as officers. Their quotas are low, they can work until they're 46, and they can work under contract for 21 years. Besides, potential pension problems are still unsolved. Now, I want to come to this: There's a huge difference between the way you look at a soldier when you come to power in 2002 and the way you look at him today. In the past, they used to condemn Mehmetçik to sacrifice his country, and if he didn't do his military service, they wouldn't give him a girl. So, how did we get here? How did we get here? How could we pay him to do the public service, give him a free ticket, give him a house? If you make a witness to the Chief of General Staff, Şemdin Sakık (Sehdin Sakık) who is a terrorist, who serves his country with plots without a response, who meets terrorists with festivities and arrests officers with festivities; who do not receive more hunting rifles; who are thrown out of schools by such tortures; who are not involved in any action on July 15th; who are not involved in any action, will be looking for a soldier, a military student, an officer, and an officer for life; who has not received a hunting rifle; who has not received one more rifle; you will be able to bring up to the Milli University of Defense; you will find a terrorist who has not been involved in any action, and you will not be looking for the army today. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) If you don't speak up when Nutuk is made a criminal element -- the founding epic of the Republic of Turkey, the Nutuk -- you look for men in this army. We stood upright that day, and we told the judges on that day: "We, in our conscience, in our hands, in our conscience, in the account of the days when our grandchildren will examine tomorrow, are drawing our way under the words and instructions of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has been keeping watch over the Republic of Turkey. Let everyone know that we are on guard here. We have never bowed before this enemy penal law, we have not asked for an evacuation once; you have not brought him to his knees, and you cannot make him kneel after that. Because we are children of the heights that no bird can fly, of the cliffs that no foot can descend, of the Republic of Turkey that is built in the midst of fires. That's why you didn't win.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0266par0906	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0265par0907	Not you, but Kuddusi Okkır, whose funeral you call the organization's financier, won. Not you, Ali Tatar has won. They call the man who defends his honor before his body. Abdulkerim Kırca, Explorer Kozinoğlu, Muzaffer Tekin has won. Not you, Türkan Saylan, Ilhan Selçuk won, the republic won the light. Those who can't tell these people, who can't go to their graves and ask for their family's blessing, I say to them: You have the arrogance of nations, and the shame of your handkerchiefs. You have not been enlightened because you are not truly in love with the truth. You have sacrificed your consciences and your unresolved debts to your ideological positions, and you have not been enlightened. We forget our light by your side, as if we were encased in the night by your side. Listen carefully to those who want to bring CHP to their side with terrorism: No separatist, no disruptor, no one can lift a pinky finger in our presence. Our hearts are pounding for the unity and unity of this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, last words...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0267par0912	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0265par0913	History bears witness that we are the carnations that grow in these lands, not the slanderous mosquitoes that grow in swamps. We are a party of generation after generation, of song being passed from language to language, of resurrection, of pain facing together, but of a faith that never loses the joy of life. So the last breath in our lungs will hold on to a victory that we will bring to our nation. That victory is the first cry of any child born free and independent. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0267par0916	Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar will speak on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Yasar. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0268par0920	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Order of the Dair Law on the Approvement of Co-operation in the Defence Area between the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Government of Georgia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. It was signed on March 31, 2018 in Giresun, that the government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Government of Georgia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, Co-operation in the Defence Area, the Co-operation Covenant, between the three countries, and the fundamental and principles of cooperation in the field of defence have been established, and the move of the cooperation to a higher level. I would like to make it very clear that we support this proposal of the law. It is clear that current friendly relations between the parties are being developed and improved according to international rules and agreements. This agreement, in general, appears to be a three-way mechanism. The fact that this agreement was made by two states, one nation, and our strategic partner in the region, is important to the international arena. Precious MPs are hosting important projects in Turkey, Georgia, Azerbaijan. In particular, the Baku-Tiflis-Kars Iron Road, the TANAP project, the Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum Natural Gas Pipeline Project, the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline are the positive results of the common interests of these three countries, their troops, their solidarity and their trust in each other. As we all know, Turkey is on the corridor of energy from Asia to Europe, and these three projects are vital to Turkey. Again, Asia is also an important stop for energy sources to reach Europe. That's how we support these deals. At the same time, as we all know, Turkey is 90% dependent abroad, especially in terms of natural gas and oil. We also believe that these corridors are important for its own needs and for its safe access to natural gas and oil. We support these agreements in this framework. And let's not forget that I feel that our government has not been paying any attention to Asia lately. Let me start by saying that there is no such thing as neglecting Asia at a time when resources are running out in Europe, especially when even Europeans are turning to Asia. Recently, our dialogue with these republics has been reduced, such as Turkmenistan. In Turkmenistan, where 600 companies worked until two years ago, the number of companies today is not passing by the fingers of one hand. Sending our businessmen to these countries is not done; we need to stand behind them, we need to take steps to resolve their problems. In order to do that, our government needs to improve its dialogue with the Turkish republics in particular. I would like to rephrase that we support any contribution, any concrete suggestion, any step. On the scale of Turkmenistan... Turkmenistan has been waiting for our President for two years. I hope so too, and I speak from this bench, Mr. President, that it is not possible to solve the problems in Turkmenistan before you leave. Turkmenistan is no ordinary country. In the past two years, until two years ago -- $50 billion -- was a country that was leading the most business in the world, but for the past two years, our dialogues have been weakened. We believe and trust that Mr. President will go to Turkmenistan as soon as possible, and these dialogues will begin again, and the obstacles to our businessmen will be raised in the middle. While Turkmenistan is like this, there is no different structure in other countries; there are new developments in Uzbekistan, as well as in Kyrgyztan, Kazakhstan. Let us not forget that five countries, which have recently been on the coast of Caspian, signed an agreement as of August 12th; this agreement was signed between Iran, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Russia and Azerbaijan, and there was a consensus on the status of Caspian. So this project is of serious importance for the transport of Caspian resources to Europe. So as long as we forget about this place, as long as we're out of touch, we'll have serious problems in the future. I know it's almost time, but I'll tell you one thing: the Baku-Tiflis-Kars Iron Road is open, but there are serious problems. You're loading the load from Mersin. Now we're talking about a railroad that connects London and Beijing. Indeed, we thank the government for this. I say, from time to time, we support everything you do well here, but when you do wrong, we hope you'll take our suggestions into consideration. Now, there are serious problems on this line, so there are paperwork problems. And from here, Mr. General Manager of the Railways, hopefully... from time to time, we can't find the ministers, but at least we can refer to them here as representing them, they're following our meetings.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0269par0930	You're forgetting the signalization, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0268par0931	There are serious problems, so there are problems with the treatments of a container from Mersin on its way to Beijing. The work to get rid of these needs to be done as soon as possible. This also refers to the historic Silk Road. This line is an important line, both important for transport and for carrying cargo. Why? Right now, over Iran, as you know, there's an embargo. The contents of the goods that go to Asia through Iran are not paid, not even because they pass through it, nor are their accordions opened, nor are they paid. So...
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0270par0932	Mr. Bedri, we'll go iftara Mr. Bedri.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0268par0933	Well, I'm completing it on a public request. Friends, there's no need for these problems immediately, especially as someone from the world who comes from the business world, who we send to different parts of the world, who works in the Turkish world and in different countries, to want to see his government with him, they say, be with us from time to time, solve our problems. That's where I'm coming from. I congratulate you all on the Night of Kadir, and on your coming Day of Ramadan. As a matter of public request, I end my words here, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0271par0937	Thank you. Diyarbakır MP Hişyar Özsoy on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0272par0942	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll try to keep my speech less than ten minutes. I hope I can do it. I have made a commitment to a defence agreement between Georgia, Azerbaijan and Turkey, but I would like to use this brief time to share my opinion on two issues. First issue: Yesterday, the European Union Commission issued a report on the functioning of Turkey's democratic institutions, you know, reports of the country. Turkey has entered the European Council's monitoring process since 2017, and all reports of 2017, 2018, 2019 say Turkey has experienced a setback, a reform, a setback, let alone progress in the field of democracy, law and human rights. Again, our arrested MPs, co-chairs, trustees, municipalities that have won elections, mayors who have not been elected, pressures on civil society, pressure on journalists. And on top of all that, the European Union also says it will not negotiate with Turkey under any negotiating title this year. Of course, that was announced yesterday. Actually, it was expected. We, the HDP, of course, are in constant consultation with them, and they're giving us information. I mean, there are so many things that we think a very, very small part of them are in the reports. I'd like to point out that the situation is much more dire. Now, after a report like that yesterday, the President announced a strategy for judicial reform today. It's, of course, a background study. For two years, you know, there's been a Reform Action Group. They held their 6th meeting on May 9th, European Day. The Reform Action Group includes Foreign Minister, Interior Minister, Minister of Justice and Minister of Treasury and Finance. They have long worked with the relevant institutions of the Council of Europe, particularly the Venice Commission, the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner, the European Court of Human Rights, and the European Union officials. Really, we had a certain expectation, so we thought maybe we'd get a strategy document that could lead to proper judicial reform, but it didn't, and I want to say it was a huge disappointment. If you look at today's foreign currency markets, there was already a sharp decline in the morning because today's Judicial Reform Strategy Document was going to be announced -- international capital, employers, everyone was waiting -- you know, if something came up, maybe the markets would be a little bit more mobile, but as we explained the materials of the Strategy Document, we retraced that the dollar, the euro went back up, and even the markets didn't meet the expectations. Dear friends, as the President explained this Strategy Document, the matter used a very beautiful expression, one by one, and said: "The smaller the justice grows, the greater the persecution. We sign our name to the friends here and to the precious people who are watching us on the screen, we leave to their own appreciation. Dear friends, in judicial reform, for example, we will bring more justice. They say that more people will enter prisons. In your decisions on freedom of expression, you can now go to the Supreme Court. So don't let me steal your donkey and make you happy, I guess that's what it's like. However, there is not a single reference on the visa liberalisation, customs union and Anti-Terror Law, the 299th (insulting the President) of the Turkish Penal Code -- and the 301st Articles -- the main debate between Turkey and the European Union and the European Council. The upcoming Istanbul elections have been announced, unfortunately, a Judicial Reform Strategy Document consisting of a number of cosmetic changes in order to somehow divert all pressures from the underlying economic crisis, adversity, and the deepening economic crisis. It certainly doesn't respond to our expectations or the expectations of large social and political communities. And let's just say, if they go with that head on, the economic deepening crisis and political instability will be devastating to this country in the coming period, and Turkey-EU, Turkey-European Council will have a very negative impact on its relations. I'm gonna finish my speech here, and I'm getting signs from my group vice president that I'm gonna pick up. We now wish you the blessing of the night of Kadir, as our previous deputy has done, and we celebrate the upcoming holiday. We wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0273par0954	Kayseri MP İsmail Özdemir on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0274par0958	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute our Veteran Assembly with my deepest love and respect. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have taken a pledge on the Law Proposal that the Azerbaijan Republic Government, the Government of Georgia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey are eligible to ratify the Covenant for Co-operation in the Defence Area. I'd like to say that we support this proposal of the law. In particular, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the three countries have developed a relationship that today is not only an example of our region, but is actually an example of the world, but is also moving forward on a plane that will contribute to the stability of the rest of the world, along with the stability of our region. This is extremely positive. As a matter of fact, we need to observe that the cooperation of the three countries also affects Middle Eastern geography as well as a region such as the Caucasus geography, which heads fragile geography. Similarly, we observe that the Caspian Sea and the eastern Mediterranean, even the Black Sea, have a climate of peace, thanks to the cooperation developed by Turkey, Georgia and Azerbaijan, together. These projects, such as Baku-Tiflis-Kars Iron Road, like Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum Natural Gas Pipeline Project, or Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline, are developed and operated by three countries, are truly a model, and we want to express the importance of both transportation, goods and trade, and in terms of other political consequences, that the three countries have developed a business union with Azerbaijan and Georgia. Again, it is of great importance that our countries' cooperation is not only limited to this geography, but also to the level of co-operation with Azerbaijan and Georgia, which is not an option for the Republic of Turkey, but also to establish and protect our communication and connection with the Turkish world, which are among our obligations. In the 21st century, both power and capital became increasingly shifting from Western to East. Some have suggested that this order would also end the discussions that began with Vestphalia, which would lead to some changes in its quest for superiority. At such a time, it is no doubt that Turkey's steps along with the Azerbaijan and Georgia have led to the development of new transport routes in the parallel, both the Turkish geography and our country on the same plane, after a country such as China launched the new Silk Road Project. The Edirne-Kars Iron Road Project, the development of infrastructure and transport investments such as the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, may have led to a different debate these days, but at the next point, I think it is really projects that strengthen Turkey's hand, but I think it will also be considered in the international arena as attempts to contribute to our country's prestige and other areas. For this reason, it is truly valuable that our country, along with Georgia and Azerbaijan, take the existing cooperation of Azerbaijan to a higher level and take it to the defence field. Mr. President, I'd like to point out to you that in the following part of my speech, there's another issue that's been on our agenda recently, which is the developments in the Eastern Mediterranean. In recent years, hydrocarbon deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean have attracted attention not only to the coastal countries but also to the global plane, as we have just described, but also to this area. Notice that there are 1.7 billion barrels of oil in this area, and again, 122 trillion cubic metres of natural gas is mentioned, indicating that there is a source that will have serious consequences, political consequences, that will affect both the global oil market and the global gas market. At a time like this, I'd like to say that we also care about our country's ability to conduct search and drilling operations in areas that are ours in accordance with international sea law in the Eastern Mediterranean with the ships of Fatih and Barbaros. Hopefully, these efforts will come to fruition and the Republic of Turkey's state will reach its own source in its own blue sea fields, and I have the idea that it will also contribute to Turkey using its own source with national means. While all this is going on, if you'll pay attention, our country's efforts to limit existing sea fields in the eastern Mediterranean are also increasing. There's a lot of military activity in the area, but there's one thing about all of this, which I'd like to finish by drawing attention to. In the years we left behind, a Italian energy company wanted to enter search operations in a area just southeast of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. This energy company was forced to stand down in the face of our country's decisive stance and the activities of our navy. And the Greek Cypriot Cypriot part of the East Mediterranean region, where both our country and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus declared their rights with a clear understanding, had felt that it had been really, really difficult for the rest of the period. Now this will have made an experience that in the days that we left behind, the Greek Cypriots had contact with a country, and certain specific information that they had signed an agreement was included in some European media, particularly in the Greek media. According to an agreement by France and the Greek Cypriot Greek Cypriots, France will have the right to use the Southern Cyprus-based Evangelos Florakis Seabase in the coming period, and the French navy will again open its way for its presence in the eastern Mediterranean province, as well as for this base. The other thing is very important, which is that the French navy will accompany and protect this French energy company in their search of the so-called parcels declared by the French Cypriot part of an energy company. Against who? It's supposed to be against Turkey. In whose fields? It's in the sea areas that Turkey owns. Of course, there's a point to be made, by the way. According to the 1960 Constitution -- related to Cyprus -- there are three garantors on the island of Cyprus, according to the London and Zurich Accords signed in 1959 and 1960: one is Greece, one is England, and the other is us. Of course, during the year we left behind, the Cyprus talks continued in Crans-Montana, Switzerland, and at the beginning of these talks, there was one issue that was at the top of the main issues that we had already rejected, which was whether to remove or change the garantority system on the island. In these circumstances, when these debates have been heated, someone says: "Sir, let the garantisms change, let the United Nations Security Council come to Cyprus as a garanteur, and let them settle in." What else? NATO can come. What else? The European Union can come. We see that Greece and the Greek Cypriot Greek Cypriots put the European Union first in this sense. Besides, it's clear that Greece will not be able to build any military bases here under the agreements we've explained about the bet, so here's the thing we need to be careful about. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing. It is said that France will be able to move its navy and troops here within the framework of the common European army, which the European Union had already established. There is no doubt that in the coming period, the issue of the eastern Mediterranean will come to our attention. However, I say it is imperative that we maintain our rights and interests of the Turkish Cypriots here, while maintaining our country's blue homeland borders in the Eastern Mediterranean, with precision and determination, as well as our right to garantism over Cyprus. Thank you all. I offer my love and respect.
tbmm-2019-05-30sit03spe0275par0979	[[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Talks on Article 1 have been completed. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on item 2? No. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Anyone want a word on Article 3? No. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards who have not been able to get into the system to the presidential office during the time they've been given a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The open vote has come to a conclusion, I read it: Turkish Parliament Speaker of the Grand National Assembly, İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım (Azerbaijan Republic), the Government of Georgia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey (Turkish Republic) under open vote to ratify the Covenant for Co-operation in the Defence Area: ▪ Number of votes used : 232 [[x]] Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Bayram Özçelik The offer has been accepted and legalized. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday 30/5/2019, it was fitting that the General Assembly's proposal not to meet on Friday (January 31/5/2019), which was previously decided to work, should be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. Mustafa Şentop Cahit Özkan Fatma Surkan Turkey's Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Peoples' Democratic Party The President's Group is the Vice President of the Vice President's Group Mohammed Levent Nightingale Lütfü Türkkan Özgür Special Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. I'd like to submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. We are starting talks with Turkish Parliament Speaker Tekirdağ, Turkish Parliament Speaker Mustafa Sentop, and with the Turkish Republic of Turkey's Government of Turkish Republic and the Court of Public Driver's Documents/Drive Driver's licenses in exchange for ratification of the Agreement for Change and Law Proposal and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 57 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole offer? No. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AUDIENCE REPUBLICATION OF THE ENGLISH REPUBLIC REPUBLICITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TOURHICTION AND THE CONTROLATION OF THE COMPLICATION OF THE UNIVERSAL CONTINUATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSETS OF THE UNIVERSE MADDE 1- (1) was approved on January 23, 2019 in Ankara, with the approval of the National Driver's Documents/Driver's Driver's Driver's Licenses/Defense and Agreement for Change between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Anyone want a word on item 1? No. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on item 2? No. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Anyone want a word on Article 3? No. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of this help, the members who cannot get into the system to hand over the ballots to our President during the time of the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The open vote has come to a conclusion, I read it: Turkish Parliament Speaker Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop (Tekirdağ) has reached a clear vote between the Turkish Republic of Turkey government and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to ensure the ratification of National Driver's Documents/Driver's Driver's licenses as a reciprocal and Agreement for Change: ▪ Number of votes used : 235 [[x]] Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Bayram Özçelik The offer has been accepted and legalized. Since there is no other work available on our agenda, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (June 11th 2019) to discuss audit issues and legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
