tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll excuse us for today's circumstances, I'd like to briefly express our thoughts. As representatives of the nation, this blessed roof is the guardian of a legacy that defies thousands of years. The Grand National Assembly of the Great Nation has been the Turk's only refuge in the worst storms, the most violent disasters. The light that shines on the darkest night of this House is the polar star that always points in the right direction in the moment when all compasses are lost. Because under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the generation of heroes who founded the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it has based solely on the will of the nation and has chosen the wisdom of the nation to guide them. It was this Parliament that built a state independent of an occupied and colonized country geography. As in the invasion war, on July 15th, it was again this Parliament that resisted the invader. The Veteran Assembly became a veteran for the second time that night, facing the tongs of imperialism. It is this belief that has made a building of stone and earth the heart of the nation, keeping our coven alive all these years. This is the spirit that has made the Assembly a brother to Mehmetçik. Our coven is the representative of today's civilization, which has fixed its foot on Asia Minor and embraced all humanity. In the mosque of Haji Bayram, the hands of the heavens were not empty, and the prayer of those who opened the door of the founding assembly was answered. The independent Turkish state and the Turkish Grand National Assembly are our nation's acceptable prayers. Those who read the world based on Ankara, suffering, oppressed, but with hope for Turkey, have always turned their gaze to the position that this roof will display. Therefore, the boundaries of this structure are not surrounded by walls surrounding it. The true borders of our parliament can extend to every square inch of the land where the Turkish nation breathes and breathes freely. The meaning of this Assembly is that everyone whose heart is beating with Turkey has a voice and a word. To be worthy of this nation, who has not done injustice in history, who has not been imprisoned in history, who has not done persecution throughout history, is at the top of our original goals. Indeed, our nation has entrusted them with a duty [to Allah]. It is incumbent on each of us to take care of this trust and to act according to the rightful owners of the trust. Looking at the conditions we're in today, we see that those who occupy the Middle East, who lead hundreds of thousands of people to their deaths, are arming a terrorist organization that wants to divide Turkey. Thank God that 82 million troops are united in self-preservation. As this unity continues, the Turkish nation will shine like a star. On this occasion, I wish our martyrs mercy, urgent healings for our veterans, with the greatest respect to all of you who strive for Turkey's future, sovereignty, stability. [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, who asked for a word on the return of Syrian refugees to the safe zone. Here you go, Mr. Stoneborn.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0002par0021	Members of parliament, according to official records, the number of Syrian guests under temporary protection in Turkey has been 3,674,588. The proportion of Syrian guests reached 22 per cent of the total population in Gaziantep, 27 per cent in Hatay, 21 per cent in Şanlıurfa, and 81.83 per cent in the Church. Most of the people living in the camps are in Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa and Hatay, while most of the Syrian refugees scattered throughout the cities live in Istanbul, Gaziantep and Hatay. When we look at it as a demographic structure, the Syrian guests in Turkey appear to come from four cities, mainly. Aleppo leads 53.2 per cent, or about 2 million, and other cities are Humus, Idlib, and Hama. The largest refugee flood came from Aleppo. The area Turkey plans to create a region and a secure area that it intends to clean up from the PYD-YPG/PKK terrorist organisation is largely comprised of districts and villages in the Districts of Aleppo. The districts of Aleppo are Afrin, Ayn al-Arab, Cerablus, Azez, El Bab, Menbic, and the settlements of Turkey that it plans to clean up with the new operation. About 2 million of the refugees in Turkey have been forced to flee from these settlements to Turkey as a result of the pressure of the PYD-YPG terrorist organization. Those who fled were not asked about their religion, nor their nation; and the heart and door of Turkey were opened to any who came. For all 40 centuries of Turkish history is filled with examples of compassion shown to the oppressed by which religion and color, without his mother's tongue being asked. Thus, the hand of mercy was extended without question whether it was Turkmen, Ezidi, Arab or Kurdish. Our government is trying to drive the PYD-YPG terror organization from these settlements, trying to change demographic structures and return nearly 2 million Syrian guests back to their homes and homes. Operation Firat Shield has begun to return to several Syrian guest dorms after Operation Olive Dalli. The decisive stance of hero Mehmetçik, and our army, has begun to yield the expected outcome of the peace, peace, and stability that it brings to the region. Members of the law, the Western countries, who are constantly talking about humanity and human rights in every issue, have swallowed their tongues in the face of the historical drama that they experience when it comes to Muslims, and have turned their backs on this great migration and human drama that is happening in our geography. Our Muslim nation, on the other hand, has acted with the sense of responsibility of history, even when Turkey has found the highest population in its history, and has tried to meet the needs of food and housing of millions in Syria from the beginning of the migration -- with the help and contributions of our citizens -- without distinguishing Turk's tender hands from each of them wherever they may be. Precious lawmakers, Syrian guests should not be forgotten that sending our borders to Syria without providing security for their countries in an environment surrounded by terrorist organizations could cause another major security problem. The irresponsible sharing of opposition and several NGOs in social media that would lead to a number of misunderstandings about Syrian guests has led to a process in which some issues have been used in a political way that threatens domestic peace in our country, as well as in our country. Operation Peace Fountain of Mehmetçik, the hero, will be successful with Allah's permission. (MHP and AK PARTY) After that, our Syrian guests will return to their homeland with a secure area formed after the Fırat Shield and Operation Olive Dalli, and thus the historical human drama that took place in our geography will be resolved by Turkish government. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I remind you of the words of Namik Kemal, the country poet for those who don't understand: Should we sell the virtues of the city? What if we sleep with Hajjj? Should we stand up to the court and throw stones at the Kaaba? He held his dagger against the heart of the country Immaculate is the land's land, to save its land. The great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said in response to Namik Kemal, who was in the high council, "Let the enemy hold the dagger against the heart of the city." She'll be found with her bad luck. And peace be upon those who deliver their good fortune.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0003par0037	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Eskişehir MP Utku Kırözer. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0004par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. My dear friends, five months ago, a survey was launched by the presidency for 5,300,000 public employees; it began on 11 June, and ended on 26 July. The survey was asked to be answered in the e-government system, so the identity number was required to fill out the questionnaire. In addition, the president's office was ordered to fill in all personnel, regardless of his status, to all institutions, so it was mandatory to answer. The purpose of the survey was to remove the public's opinion of human resources processes, but the questions were related to the government system, which we call the presidential administration, which we call the one-man administration, as it neutralized the independent judiciary because the forces eliminated the separation. A few examples: Do you find the presidency system successful? Are the institutions' jurisdictions with the system clear? There were also, of course, questions: Do you believe in the purposes of the institution you work for? Do you think it is your duty to be faithful to the institution you work for? My dear friends, can the presidency do a poll? Yes, he can; he can ask questions about the way the state system operates the bureaucracy, he can ask questions about the staff's work environment, but it can't be done in a way that will reveal the identity of the responding public employees. If you do this survey from an e-government platform with all personal information including the TC ID number, especially if you have to do it, it's called dispersing anywhere in the world. Dear lawmakers, there is a method in this kind of research, and there is no need to reinvent America. If we want to get healthy information in this kind of survey work, the identities of people who answer questions are hidden because they are the real and sincere answers to the question, not the identity of the individual. Also, what does the 15th article of our Constitution command? No one can be forced to explain their thoughts and beliefs. So this survey, in its form, is, above all, unconstitutional, plain tagging. We brought concerns about this survey to the public's agenda at the time, and we also asked Vice President Fuat Oktay: Isn't this the tag? The response is: the data of public employees involved in the survey was automatically processed. 5.3 million officers and other public employees were forced to express their personal thoughts along with their personal identity data, and then these data -- as they say. The presidency says: "The automatic processing of data is in accordance with the Protection of Personal Data Act." It is said that there is no violation of the Constitution. And do those who fill this survey trust that their personal data will be kept and processed in accordance with the law? Unfortunately, no. How do we know? Here's the answer: 862 thousand people responded to the survey, which was mandatory for 5.3 million public employees with presidential Forslu articles, so only 16 percent, because my dear friends are concerned that when they fill it, something might happen to them. Look, not even the judicial community believes that personal data will be preserved in the survey; 20,717 judges and prosecutors only fill in 1,825. You know, there's a number that we use very often, 80 percent of the people don't trust justice in Turkey, but see, 92 percent of the judiciary don't trust the palace. Moreover, there are numerous warnings from the palace to institutions that accession to the survey is scarce, although public employees do not trust it. There is another dimension: 84 per cent of public employees did not fill the survey, but those who feared that something would happen to them when they did not. I'm asking how many 800,000 people have shared their true and sincere views. How many officers can write, "This is the rule of one man?" ▪ How many bureaucrats can write that the separation of power has been lifted? How many prosecutors can write about the independence of the judge? How much of the stuffing do you think gave us real information? Look what the officers say: I was afraid, I hid my true opinion. Actually, this system doesn't work, but I said I don't have any ideas in the survey. So why are they worried? Because you want it to be entered with IDs. It's also said that this survey will be held every year. Why is this insistence? Where will this data be used? Is it really going to be used in the work of regeneration of the system, or will a handful of public employees who have made it clear that they have a problem with the system be branded -- just like you did in TRT -- to be assigned to pool staffs, be used to identify bureaucrats? My dear friends, a society of fears has been created that the President is afraid to fill out the Fors poll, and the one who doesn't. That's what the country's all about. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0005par0050	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0004par0051	So first of all, 862,833 personal data collected by force must be destroyed immediately. Secondly, in the coming years, you must stop polling through the e-state with identity information. And then let's sit down and think, who's to ask if the administration of the only man who's made this country the most unmanageable inside and out needs a revision? Let's ask the officer, of course, to the public employee, but not to the e-state, but to the barrooms, rooms, unions, representatives of the community. In fact, if we want it to be scientific, we want it to be clear, without hiding, without hiding, and if we want people to benefit from the results of the survey, do we need a revision in the system? I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0005par0054	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Ankara MP Zeynep Yıldız, who wants to mention the 16th anniversary of Aliya Izetbegovic's death. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0006par0058	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs last Saturday were the 16th anniversary of the death of aliya Izetbegovic, a wise statesman, the elegant contractor. I am hereby promised as a member of the International Friendship Group of Turkey and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I salute you all. Aliya Izetbegovic, with the grace of Rumeli, has been the voice of our world, in fact, with a unique place in each of our memories and hearts. While taking separate photographs of strong observation, multi-dimensional intellectual readings, Muslim communities and Western ▪, he rationally presented proposals for solutions to problems. Today, as a young man, I would like to address the leadership of Aliya Izetbegovic, his subjugation, as well as Aliya. If any of you believe in the spirit and energy of the place, maybe they'll understand what I'm about to say. Now, if you'd like, let's go to Sarajevo. One of the buildings that actually welcomes us is Morica Khan, who gives up our backs to the chief of staff, and goes to the mosque of Gazi Khosrev Bey. The moment you enter through the door of Morica Khan, a courtyard full of sycamores will greet you and you will feel the testimony of those sycamores. They are the testimony of a group of young people's ideas, their reading, their debates, their excitement, their dreams for their country. Yes, the spirit of the Mladi Muslim is in the fabric of the Morica Khan, and the whole of his place. Izetbegovic describes the Muslim Mladi, who was part of his youth, as a place where he could form a relationship between self and form, much different from what he learned in the schools, the lectures he attended, or the articles he read, in his work "Tarihe Witnessing." As he grew up as a Muslim youth in the middle of Europe, Aliya was able to study the intellectual foundations of Europe, and while doing so, she had found an environment and a way to bring joy to its core, to its nurturing mind code, to its companion, including a youth movement. If we remember Aliya today as a statesman, as a thinker, as a pioneer of an awakening, and at every opportunity to say that we love Aliya, it is our young man's duty to carefully examine the story of Aliya, the story of her discovery, the story of her dedication, the basis of her struggle, and to examine the excitement that Aliya and her friends put on the walls of Morica Khan. Dear lawmakers, Aliya Izetbegovic, we know him not only as a leader but also as a felylesof who can simply express the truths about human beings. For example, no creature, apart from man, lifts its head up to heaven and dives into deep thoughts, the secrets of the universe, into mystery. Even the expression is a sign of a subtle awareness of the universe that the human spirit has not stopped exploring the subtletiest and most challenging struggles in the world at that time. She's a beautiful person, Aliya Izetbegovic. In the mid - 20th century of Europe, while the Bosniaks left for systematic war crimes and massacres, one female civilization taught the world a valuable lesson as it did not lose its humanity. The method of his struggle was not determined by the morality of his enemies, but by the principles in which he was raised. We can certainly understand his consistent, honorable, personal struggle, his solemn confidence in his struggle by saying: "We have tried to become human and remain human, and we have succeeded. But I must stress that we didn't do it because of them. We tried to stay human because of ourselves, not because of them. We don't owe them anything. To be human and to remain human is our responsibility to God and to ourselves, not to them. And finally, he's a mature Muslim, Aliya. The last word of his defense in the Sarajevo case is that I am a Muslim, and I will remain one. I refer to myself as a prisoner of the world's Islamic cause, and I will feel that way until my last day. For Islam is the other name of all that is beautiful and noble to me, the promise of a better future for the Muslim peoples of the world, an honorable and free life for them, and, in short, everything worth living for, according to my belief. Finally, the day before Aliya Izetbegovic died, he said to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan: "You are a boy, protect this trust. I want to promise once again that we will protect Aliya's trust as our two eyes by Allah's permission. I remember aliye Izzetbegovic, a gracious tyrant, a powerful leader, a wise statesman, with mercy, gratitude, and grief. On behalf of all that is beautiful and noble, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our noble nation.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0007par0072	Congressmans, now, I'm going to promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. After these words, Mr. Group, we'll meet the VP's demands. Mr. Süleyman Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0008par0077	Mr. President, dear friends, the district of Aydın Kuyucak has filed a lawsuit against the JES construction work at Pamukören District Millendere. Today, the villagers are using their constitutional rights in peace to protect their land, water, olive trees, but they're facing the gendarmes and the Riot Squad. It's unacceptable for the company to work here without any decision from the case. In addition, it is neither logical nor logical to receive a report in a place where olive trees, houses, are not necessary. This has to be turned around fast. Dear MPs, my call to the Governor of Ankara: Tomorrow they want to create tensions in front of ODTÜ by calling people from different universities of Ankara and from the streets. Governor, don't let Ankara and Turkey's peace be broken. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0009par0080	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0010par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that in this delicate process where the focus of our nation's security and security is trying to speed up terrorist activities, our press members can contribute substantially to the fight against terrorism, as well as to the strengthening of our democracy, the progress of our country, the protection of our unity and unity. The efforts of pressmen in various parts of the world, especially Syria, who are doing their jobs at the expense of their lives in extremely difficult conditions, deserve every kind of appreciation. With these feelings, I congratulate the valuable pressmen on October 21st, honoring those who have passed away, wishing health, happiness and success in their professional lives; and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0011par0085	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0012par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. The Turkish Union of Banks announced that financial restructuring of banks and financial institutions will be implemented for large-scale companies with $25m Turkish lira and credit debt. Today we have 31 million citizens who owe loans to banks. The minimum wage, the laborer, the farmer, the tradesman, can't make a living. Millions of people had to borrow money from banks for their most basic need. With the eyes of all of our citizens on the to-do arrangement, the power is only making an arrangement to save big corporations. I'd like to ask: will there be a configuration for citizens who owe credit card debt?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0011par0089	Mr. Flitz...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0013par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Our exports, including industrial and agricultural products, are largely dependent on import entries, and in recent years the increase in foreign currency rates, the wrong economic policies that have been implemented have devastated the officer, the tradesman, the farmer, the farmer, the middle pole; in a different way, the middle pole is now at stake. Since there are no trades, a significant portion of our citizens suffer from severe income shortages. So that thousands of citizens in my constituency district, Gaziantep, who are unable to pay for water in central and boroughs, are in a state of inability to pay for water, and have to pay for lawyers in addition to water money. He says once again, stop all waste and support industrial and agricultural production, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0014par0094	Mr. Serker...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0015par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. We see recently that the oil derivative waste, which has been reported to have infiltrated a facility in our district of Izmir Aliaka, has also been on our shores, risking people's lives and creating serious pollution. On the coasts of Foça and Aliaka counties, these wastes, which seem to have become increasingly common and unsupervised, and the widespread pollution of our citizens and we are troubled by it. I would like to address the Minister of Environment as well as the Minister of Industry and Technology: Step together to make the coast of Aliga and Foca healthy again and to prevent pollution. Tomorrow we'll be looking for this nature with wax.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0016par0099	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0017par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to inform the public, I celebrate the 21st of October World Journalists Day of our journalists who work day and night to tell us what's going on in our country and in the world with the quick and neutral and primitive and the right idea of broadcasting. The full, objective, accurate information of public opinion and the protection of our citizens' right to information are vital to the functioning of our democracy. The Turkish press took a crucial test on July 15th; with our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan effectively conveying the message of inviting our people to the squares to the millions, it has achieved a major and historic job in repelling the low coup attempt. With regard to the principles of our media, professional principles and the sensitivities of our nation, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, believing that you will do your best and contribute to our democracy.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0018par0104	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0019par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. In our agricultural town, Adıyaman, which has fertile farmland, 80.1 per cent of agricultural land is produced by dry agriculture, 19.9 per cent by watery agriculture. Despite the fact that our Adıyaman is part of the GAP and the long period of time, watering projects have not been completed. Studies have also come to a halt in dams that have begun to be built by power but cannot be finished. I would like to call upon the government and the President: Solve Adıyaman's watering problem at once, make sure that the funds for dams that began in 2020 and were not yet completed, perform the watering projects of our Adıyaman. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0020par0110	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0021par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. The Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant was privatized. As the Afşin-Elbia Termic Plant was given to Steels Holdings, while privatising, the AK PARTY MPs, the ministers, promised that no one would lose their jobs, no one would lose their bread. Unfortunately, that was also a lie. The last time he was fired was two months ago from 39 labor jobs. Don't go to 39 workers. We'll solve this problem. The AK PARTY MPs still haven't solved it. These workers need to be rehired as they enter the winter months. In this regard, I address the AK PARTY MPs: Keep your promise, stop victimizing workers, and keep this promise for once. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0022par0115	Mr. Ilhan...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0023par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. The problems of local media in our country have been increasing day by day, especially over the past few years, due to the negative effects of the economic crisis and the oppressive weather in our country. It's wrong to see the local press as just a regular story story. Given that localisation in all respects in today's society will improve democratic standards, it should also be remembered that local media contributes to the development of democratic community awareness as a sort of control mechanism, with public objective information. Our local press has insurance problems, the height of tax rates, and problems that need to be resolved urgently until the release of official ads is overpaid. Not only do we have to conduct it, but as Congress, we need to be able to show the necessary sensitivity to it and immediately do a new work on local media. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0024par0120	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0025par0122	He has a degree in sociology and an unassigned teacher, a degree in moral support and advice, a master's degree in private education, computer management, pedagogical formation, family psychology, working life, training certificates, but he works as a security officer at a university. While working as an electrical engineer for a subcontractor at the Regional Directorate of the Highways, he became a regular employee. It was said that everyone would be positioned as a flat worker and then given their position back. Later, he learned that there is no position called electrical engineering, and now he works as an electrical master for a very low salary from his previous salary. University graduates working in public institutions, municipalities, CSI 4857, under the legal status of permanent workers, want to work legally in the status of their diplomas, professional knowledge and skills, so they expect justice and righteousness. Their demands are our demand, and we invite the government on duty.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0024par0124	Mr. Bicer Karaca...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0026par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, a presidential decree on the removal of national park status has been issued today regarding the sightings and environment, which have been decided to collapse in recent months by illegal constructions due to the reflexes of society. The grounds for the decision are referred to as Article 3 of the National Parks Act 2873. However, Article 3 of this law regulates the conditions for gaining national park status and does not allow any authorities or persons to remove national park status. It is evident that this decision is openly contrary to the Constitution, and that the single man's regime has taken a serious interest in our nature, our weather, our water, our cultural and historical heritage. The view and environment are on the World Cultural Heritage List by UNESCO, and remove your hands from sightings and surroundings, which are listed on this list and home to hundreds of tourists each day in terms of tourism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Seeing is a world heritage.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0027par0131	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0028par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Students who have been cut off from our universities for different reasons ask for student amnesty. Our bill for student forgiveness is also in the House of Parliament. Students have not been pardoned since 2014. Those with disciplinary penalties, regretting -- pre-license, licensing, license completion -- must be granted a student pardon at once, including those who have been cut off of their will. In addition, university graduates who receive loans from the Credit Homes Association find it difficult to find a minimum wage job. At least three years of debt must be transferred. In this regard, the bill is in the House of Parliament. The Minister of National Education is in Parliament today, but he's not here. If only you hadn't made that freak Constitutional Amendment, instead of putting the Minister in a room, he'd be on the Assembly General Assembly, and we'd have asked him about the unassigned teachers, the underprivileged teachers. We should've asked them if the 400 thousand unregistered teachers would be assigned to the rehabilitation center instructors. If the minister could be in a closed room, in the People's Assembly, I wish that freak wasn't the Constitutional Amendment.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0029par0137	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0030par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Many villages, along with Tel Abyad and the districts of Eluayn, 120km long, 32km deep, were seized by Turkish Armed Forces and Syrian National Army in almost a week's campaign we started as Turkey. Over 700 people of the PYD/PKK have been neutralized and the terrorist organization has soon been devastated. On Thursday, the US delegation's work trip to Ankara decided that Operation Fountain of Peace would be suspended for a hundred and twenty hours. No one tries to throw mud, make excuses, make mistakes, Turkey has won both in the field and at the table, and will continue to win. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our commander-in-chief, says that if the commitments are not kept, we will continue our action with a much greater determination this time, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0029par0141	Your Highness...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0031par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. October 19th was the anniversary of the death of the late Aliya Izetbegovic, the most important man of the last century, the symbol of struggle and determination. Aliya, I don't go to Europe with my head down because we didn't kill children, women and elders because we didn't attack any sacred places. But they did all this, in the sight of the West, in the name of Western civilization. It is not possible to make a fair peace with the world and its leaders today. Despite all the years that have passed, we have seen once again how true and valid the words of the Western world are, especially in our final experience. Your name is Islam. History will never forget and forget the honorable battle of Aliya. May my Lord grant His mercy to you and to the honorable people of Bosnia. Wise leader, may your soul rest in peace and may your place be in heaven.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0029par0145	Mr. Bahshi...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0032par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. ON Wednesday (October 9th) the governor of Antalya Governor Münir Karaloğlu did not give a positive or negative answer to the request. Antalya Province President has asked the government to make the appointment, not from the person of Münir Karaloğlu, but from the governorate, representing the state. I'd like to warn Governor Münir Karaloğlu here that the occupation of your office does not remove pleasure and insensitivity. It should be known that the PARTI has received 250,000 votes from Antalya, 3 MPs, and Turkey is a political party that has formed a group in Parliament with 5 million votes. GOOD PARTY is the nation itself, and the Turkish nation does not violate the law. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0033par0150	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the Deputy Directors of the Group who are demanding word. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0034par0153	Mr. President, I would like to invite the governor of Antalya to change his mentality as the governor of the AK PARTI. The Governor of Antalya, Mr. Münir Karaloglu, receives his salary from the tax of the nation, including the members of the ICI PARTY; he receives it from our nation, not from lawmakers or organizations. I'd like to invite our nation's representatives, this governor, who stopped making appointments with our nation's political organs, to the courtesy, then state decency, and manners. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yesterday's news of the martyrs came in a row. Our Specialist Sergeant Muhammad Örk was unfortunately killed in an operation launched against the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the rural area of Derik district of Mardin. We've been informed that Corporal Happy Can Mesheci, who was injured and treated by the PKK/YPG terrorists on October 11th in the base area of Operation Olive Dare, has been unable to be rescued despite all the interference and, unfortunately, he is a martyr. Our Marine Corporal Hope Coshkun, who was injured during Operation Peace Fountain, also died in the hospital where he was treated. Again, Infantry Contractor Caner Selimoglu, wounded in an armed accident in the Battle of the Peace Fountain area, was declared a martyr who was not saved after all the intervention at the hospital. I pray to all our martyrs for mercy from God, and for patience with their families and our nation, and for the sake of our nation. Our wish is that from now on we shall not receive any news of martyrdom, neither shall the furnaces be extinguished, nor shall our hearts be burned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Operation Peace Fountain, which Turkey launched on October 9th, was suspended for a hundred and twenty hours under the agreement reached last week with America. The time set for PKK/YPG terrorist organization is at 22 p.m. tonight. It's filling up at 00. Today the clock will expire, and the eyes of the world will also be on Sochi. Decisions from President Erdogan's talks with Russia's President Putin (Russian President) in Sochi (Sochi) will be very important for Turkey's road map. Like everyone else, we continue to monitor the outcome of this meeting and the future process closely. After a period of 120 hours, we will carefully observe whether the promises are kept, what will happen in the region, and the attitude our country will follow. We expect the stance on this issue to be carried out with great precision, political and diplomatic relations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yesterday was the 20th anniversary of the massacre of Professor Ahmet Taner of our beloved republic and its values, a worthy scientist, and my older brother, Professor Ahmet Taner of Kabataş Men's High School. I wish the late Barrack with respect and mercy to his daughter, Nilhan Barracks, and to Nilhan Barracks, who led his life without knowing his father. Yesterday was also World Journalists' Day. Turkey was ranked 157th in the World Press Freedom Report, among 180 countries, as was last year. Unfortunately, our journalists realized World Journalists Day with such a bad painting. And we, the Good PARTY Group, are celebrating the World Journalists' Day of journalists who didn't go in the pool.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0035par0161	Round it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0034par0162	In any case, we wish all our fellow journalists, who have made it a principle to speak the truth without compromise, without selling their pens, to all our colleagues, good luck in their duties. According to TİK's report last week, the youth unemployment rate reached 27.1 per cent in our country. The number of college graduates who failed to pay off their student loans was up to 5 million. So these students finished school, and you gave them jobs, and these students didn't start? The students began their lives as debtors and still found no work. Legal transactions for hundreds of thousands of students on loan have been reported to the Treasury and Finance Ministry. The minimum wage workers -- student loans, too -- were not able to afford credit payments, so they were in danger of foreclosure.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0035par0165	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0034par0166	According to the Ministry of National Education data, the media reported that 217,000 students who have received loans from the Centre for Loans and Homes but who have not been able to pay their loans were given e-accession on their salary. The problems of our young ones who have not been able to find a job after graduating from college are growing because of the debt they receive from the repayment loan. Students who are owed $16,000 during the application for student loans are currently facing a debt that has found $30,000. We, the GOOD PARTY, will continue to address the problems of every victimized party under the House roof. We invite the government to listen to the sound of young people's rights in this matter. In the case of wind power plants, which were planned to be established in the Saminian Mountains last year, the court ruled that the wind power plant would not be built on Lakecuk. The Minister of Energy threw the ball to the Ministry of Environment instead of answering the question when I submitted it to Mr. Energy Minister earlier. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It seems that the decision from the court revealed our rights and our peasants who lived there. Although the decision is open to appeal, we will continue to monitor the next process. In that region of the pond, we will continue to oppose the decay of our nature as we did yesterday. I salute your High Council and Parliament.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0036par0173	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0037par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. As part of Operation Fountain of Peace, which began October 9th, so far, seven of our soldiers, 20 of our civilian citizens have been killed and 90 of our soldiers have been injured. As we pray for the mercy of our fallen soldiers and citizens, I pray for immediate healing for our wounded soldiers and our citizens. So far, 160 settlements have been purged of terrorists, 2,200 square kilometers of terror, 775 terrorists have been neutralized. A 13-point joint text was published today (October 17th) as a result of the agreement with the delegation from the United States of America. There has been a hundred and twenty - hour recess that will be filled at 00. Meanwhile, the commitment of the United States of America has been made that the PYD-YPG elements will leave a 20-mile safe zone, and that commitment has been made. At the same time, we will understand today the meeting between Putin and our President in Sochi. In this extremely critical process for Turkey, we, the National Movement Party, would like to express that we have been on the side of our state and government until the end, but without it. These critical days, I hope, will result in the desired results of the state of the Republic of Turkey. We pray with all our heart and heart that this outcome will come to pass, and we hope that this outcome will come to pass. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, five of our heroic soldiers and three security guards have been injured as a result of the explosion of the improvised explosive device planted on the road during the passage of the military vehicle in Kezman district of Kars. We wish for immediate healing to our wounded soldiers and rangers. Today, again, our President of Erzincan Grape County, Mr. Yehia Demirbas, died of a heart attack. I extend my condolences to our president and to his grieving family and to our community. Last week, our brother Turan Ilteber Yalçın, son of our Vice President-General Professor Edip Semih Yalçın, received the mercy of Hakk. We ask God's mercy for the deceased. We would like to express our condolences and patience to the community, especially our Vice President, Mr. Edip Semih Yalçin, and his family, and thank Mr. Mustafa Sentop. Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the esteemed members of the Court, and the members of the Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, three days ago, we realized the 16th anniversary of BiH's President, Wise King Alija Izzetbegovic. I'd like to express that we honor and cherish this great man of state, whose life is in great struggles, as the National Movement Party. Again, the World Journalists' Day wishes the best of both Turkey and the world's press, media organizations, and the veterans working in this sector, our workers.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0038par0186	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0039par0188	Mr. President, from October 9th until today, seven of our Turkish Armed Forces have been killed and we have civilian casualties as well. We wish them all God's mercy, and we wish them to be our final martyrs, that the mothers of our sons and sons of our mothers should no longer weep over this painful situation. Mr. President, we have received two painful news from two members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. One was the death of the son of Mr. Semih Yalçın, Vice President of the National Movement Party. On this occasion, we express our regret once again. We also learned from his own explanation that Justice and Development Party MP Markar Eseyan is also busy with an important health problem, and we wish him immediate healing. October 21st was the 20th anniversary of the assassination of Ahmet Taner Barrack. During one of the darkest times in the history of Turkey in the 1990s, this murder was also a black mark on our past. If I pull a brick to Mr. Güldal Mumcu, who had served together in Parliament after the murder of Security Director Mehmet Agar, Uğur Mumcu, in the process of illumination of this murder, the wall will be broken. Once again, we mark the fact that no one has dared to pull the brick from that day, and that no one has ever once again remembered our call because of the death of Ahmet Taner Köllalı. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] October 22nd was the anniversary of the death of Cetin Altan, who served this Parliament as an Istanbul MP; and we remember Cetin Altan. Again, October 22nd is the anniversary of Hüseyin Danish Tunalıgil, who was martyred by the ASALA militants at the time of Turkey's embassy to Vienna. In front of his memory, we remember once again 31 diplomats who were killed in similar acts and 58 members of the family of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. President, right after the March 31st elections, the following day, the mayors of the city were relieved of their duties in an arrangement by those who couldn't stomach the election. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, we also see that the trustee operations that began with Diyarbakır, Van and Mardin Metropolitan Mayors are heading towards the district municipalities. The public elects the mayor, gets suspended, then the trustee gets re-elected; he loses trustees, and the public elects the mayor again, but the next day, a process is being launched not on a historical charge of mayors, but on that day. Malfunction, that's where the trouble is. It is not possible to explain it to Turkey, to explain it to the world. We want to underline that. Mr. President, we're going to bring some of it up through a group proposal, but finally... the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality wanted to have two historical and very important places in its heart. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He said that such companies, such companies, such as Haydarpaşa and Sirkeci, entered in and took them and ran them for the benefit of a company and in the interest of a company. The municipal company applied, it was appropriate; they entered the tender, and they were eliminated from the water of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. It's embarrassing to express reasons. For example, there's an approach that keeps the expression out of this place, apart from the mind and conscience, for example, for example, for example, the use of words instead of Arabic as a basis for inadequacy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let's finish. It also says: "You can't enter into this contract, you have no experience," he says. Who had experience? There's a former CEO of the Archers Foundation, Mr. President. Who's that? He was the closest to the son of someone who ran the country. So, where'd you get this spread? In the past, he worked for 3,000 liras in the IBB. So, where's this gentleman's competency? As you look at it, a friend who had discussed these matters with Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Cait Turhan in his office a few days ago. If you can't smell the stench, if you're not ashamed of this disgrace, we've lost this family favourability, but through our son-in-law, through our son-in-law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0040par0205	Okay.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0039par0206	We lost Istanbul, but we couldn't digest it, we repeated the election, 13 grand was a difference of 806,000. We didn't learn a lesson without fighting people, we didn't learn a lesson without standing up to people. The general manager of the boy's foundation... you're giving these huge tenders to the man who's paid $3,000. The entire city of Istanbul is inadequate, Hüseyin Avni Önder is sufficient because he is a customer and he has written and our people have written his Turkish. It's embarrassing. If the conscientious representatives of the EC PARTY are not ashamed of this, there is a major structural problem. It smells like salt, and after this time, there's nothing to give home. No more shadows, no more polluting, no more favors.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0040par0208	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0041par0210	Thank you. Mr. President, you are aware that our brother Turan İlteber Yalçin, son of Mr. Professor Dr. Semikh Yalçin Bey, the son of the National Movement Party who passed away last week, Ali Tolez and Orhan Birgit Gençek, who are living in the free Jerusalem case, Master Nuri Pakdile of Turkish literature, I thank God for their close patience, as well as for the death of the first President of Bosnia and Herzegovina, King Aliya Izetbegovic. I wish God's mercy to all our civilian citizens who were killed by rocket and mortar attacks, and to all our wounded, as well as to our heroes who were killed in Operation Peace Fountain, which we set out to create peace and security within the knowledge of our High Assembly. I sincerely thank our political parties, who have been one heart before and during Operation Peace Fountain, which lasted for nearly nine days, and who have been open to the operation, and who have been one heart, one wrist, and with their prayers and support, truly the saint and noble nation who did not abandon our Mehmet-chik. In the words of our poet: no enemy can enter a nation without entering. The heart can't digest the ball as it hits a crowd. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So these are the days when we consolidate our national unity and unity in terms of the welfare of our nation, our country, and our state. So hopefully this union and our unity will bring us to better gains on the field and on the table. As we've stated before and during the operation, we've never had eyes on anyone's soil. Under Syrian territorial integrity, our sole goal is to ensure that terror elements leave our borders and asylum seekers are placed in a secure area. Mr. President has made it clear as the operation goes on, the only condition is that the terror elements leave our borders, the safety zone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] After nearly nine days of operation, 13 articles agreed on as a result of talks with the United States have been pledged to withdraw the terror elements from the region, so the operation has been suspended for a hundred and twenty hours. The failure of promises during this period will be carried out with determination as Operation Peace Fountain remains if the terrorist elements remain in the area. Just looking at this agreement will show that our goal is to rid the region of terror elements, to ensure the safety of Turkey and the region, and to ensure that Kurdish, Arab, Turkmen, Yezidi, Christian, about 3 million,650,000 Syrian guests return safely to their homes and homes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Under this text, the United States signed a commitment and obligation. Thus, both in the field and at the table, Turkey has achieved significant gains. The interpretation of Israel's Jerusalem Post, the most beautiful, stunning, peacekeeping mission in six days actually sums up the work: I hope that, in the future of this process, our President's talks with Mr. Putin (Mr. Putin) about the future of Syria, and I hope that this week's work and the work of the law will be a blessing to the court, and the best results of our hero Mehmetçik will be fulfilled. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0042par0225	Dear MPs, we've lost the son of Semikh Yalçın Bey. I had the opportunity to know Turan Ilteber Yalçın well. Turan İlteber Yalçın was indeed a young man who lived to honor the values of our nation. And on this occasion, my condolences again as the Court. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 22/10/2019 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. It was suggested by Adana MP Ismail Konçuk and lawmakers that the motion to conduct parliamentary research on the Turkish Parliament, given on 9/10/2019, ahead of other motions on Tuesday (January 22/10/2019) to address the victims of people who have been subjected to e-accession due to tax, tax and SGK bonus debts, and to determine the problems caused by e-accesssion, and to determine the measures that could be taken against these problems. Mr. Ismail Konçuk on behalf of the Good PARTY Group to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Concubine.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0043par0244	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The mufli merchant was going through the old books. I wonder who had the money left. The more money you don't have, the worse the economy gets, the more you get on the back of a citizen. Neither is Adana. Abdullah Right brother, you are laughing from there. Now, e-accession has been sent to 3,300,000 people. In fact, there's also a method of foreclosure in the legislation, institutions that have to send notices to people a week early, finance agencies. This notice faces the fact that when the citizen reaches the bank without being sent, his accounts are blocked. Thousands of our citizens, millions of our citizens, are now in this situation, and Despite all our explanations, the Finance Ministry has not responded to any of our motions so far. From here, I ask the Minister of Finance, Mr. Berat Jarrak, is this foreclosure, which is not in accordance with the law, will it continue? 217 thousand of them, 3 million 300, 217 thousand of them in student loans, maybe they didn't get a job, maybe they didn't have a job, maybe they're in a situation like this. Now, it's God's will to give without taking it. You keep asking citizens, demanding them, taking them all the time, but when it comes to giving them, they just don't go into your pockets. Now, how long can this go on like this? So since June 24, 2018, there's been an economic crisis on the back of a citizen like a nightmare, and you've never taken a step to correct the destruction of this economic crisis. We haven't seen you take a step in the name of the farmer, nor in the name of the tradesman, nor in the name of the officer, nor in the interest of solving unemployment. Look, the Treasury and Finance Ministry have statements, saying: 'Tax and premium debt requirements are coming in. At different times, steps can be taken in line with different needs. You're saying to the citizen: "We can restructure these debts. " The citizen trusts you with your word. The State Department of Finance is making a statement. Is there anything more important than a citizen's trust? But you don't do that configuration until today, and you block it into the bank account of 3,300,000 citizens. No elections, you're comfortable; I'm seeing your approaches before the June 23rd Istanbul elections, and I'm looking at your approach, and I'm starting to wonder if there's no elections in 2020. So with an understanding of a government that almost ignored the citizen, you began to act out of proportion. A raise, a tax; you're always riding on the back of a citizen. Dear lawmakers, with this citizen, there's no way we can move Turkey into the future with this citizen that you've crushed so much. $3,300,000... you forgive the debt of the contractors, you forgive the debt of the bank. When it comes to the Rant section, you make all kinds of sacrifices, but when it comes to citizens -- if we're not in an election period -- you remember the citizen during election times, you think of the citizen, you construct the debt, but if it's not the election season, you have no idea of the citizen. So, come on, let's solve this 3 million 300,000 e-accession issue, please. Let's get rid of the habit of riding on these people's shoulders. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0044par0253	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Cetin Osman Budak. Here you go, Mr. Budak.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0045par0256	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, we're in a deep crisis, and there's an AK PARTY that doesn't accept this crisis. It's also impossible to find a way out of this crisis without identifying it. Guys, look, it's getting deeper, so I'm gonna share a couple of signs with you. In all sectors outside the real sector, the financial sector, which includes microscale, small-scale, medium-sized, large-scale businesses, the indicators are incredibly degraded. How is it broken? First of all, you have to look at export numbers. The number of exports you're so proud of has dropped the growth rate. So, what about the import numbers? There's also 17 percent narrowing in import numbers. I mean, it's not a Porsche, it's not a Ferrari; there's a drop in between imports of goods, capital goods. Something good? Yeah, it's a good thing. You reduce imports, but you turn to your own internal resources, and you increase all the prosperity with the resources you're headed for. That's not the case. Exports will be narrowed down in the coming months. And what will be the effect of that? No one's investing, so he's avoiding the investment. And the reason he's running away from the investment is because of life and property security. Where there's no safety of life and property, there's no investment, there's no prosperity. So, while people were quickly moving away from investment, foreigners, for example, were going to invest in the Volkswagen, Manisa, and they said that they were suspending this investment because of Turkey's present environment, the distance from democracy. So, how are you going to handle unemployment if there's no investment? Most college graduates are currently unemployed. We have a Mr. President who says, "Do we have to get jobs for all college graduates?" Yes, you do, because you're in power, it's the power's job to create a business. But I'm afraid that's not the case. Almost every election before -- and there was an election every year -- you gave tax pardons, you destroyed people's paying habits, and people don't pay their taxes in anticipation; they can't even pay; they can't turn their store around, they use the numbers that they don't pay for in taxes to turn their own business. Now, without a notice, without a warning, if you impound their accounts, you're going to sink those merchants into bankruptcy, this tradesman -- which has closed 500,000 trades in five years.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0046par0262	There's no power to think of them!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0045par0263	Sir, can we have another minute?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0047par0264	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0045par0265	Ready, maybe you won't get the tax revenues from there either. I'm afraid that's the situation right now. Our good MP just told us that 3,300,000 people have been e-accessed. 3,300,000 people didn't pay their dues today, there was a protest, if he had a check today, he couldn't pay his check, he was blacklisted for a bad check. And when blacklisted, you go to banks, the doors of banks are walls, and that's the reality today. Give it up as soon as you can. I mean, if you don't report it, when you lend it to someone, he doesn't know, maybe he'll supply it and pay it, and if you do, he can't pay it right now. So the real sector needs to open its way to improve the country's economy right now, but for 17 years, your economic policies have been nothing but concrete investments. You're going to invest in production so you can eliminate unemployment, which is close to $8 million. I'm afraid you don't have the will.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0048par0267	You've sunk the tradesman.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0045par0268	At least, at least, remove your hand from the shop. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0048par0271	They've finished the trade, the tradesman.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0049par0272	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I give my word to Kütahya MP Ahmet Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0050par0275	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the group's proposal for the construction of tax and insurance premiums. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Recently, public statements, articles, and so on have increased the expectation of configuration for tax and social security benefits. In addition, sensory operations are being carried out by the Finance and Social Security Agency foreclosures, where the citizen is in a difficult economic situation, where he is even more difficult with these foreclosures, so that the fiscal configuration can be brought to the agenda as soon as possible. Such reports have negatively affected paying taxes and bonuses, causing citizens to break harmony and pay additional interest payments for delays in payment. Our Treasury and Finance Minister, Mr. Berat Colonel, has repeatedly expressed our government's approach to this matter. Last time, the New Economy Programme included this issue and made it clear that there will be no configuration of the tax returns during the programme. There are currently three existing configuration laws, which were adopted in 2011 with 6111; 6552 in 2014; 6736 in 2016; 7020 in 2017; and finally in 2018 in 7143 in 7143. Employers who have no means to pay their debts to institutions in advance and are unable to pay, however, have the means to pay their debts for up to 36 months under Article 48 of the Law on the Collectives of Amme Buyers 6183. Under Law 7143, he also applied for 5 million 931, 959 taxpayer tax offices, which, as of today, continue to pay about 4 million under the law. Dear President, very valuable MPs; the most important source of income in countries are taxes. It is imperative that tax agencies in charge of the collection of unpaid tax-recessors fulfill their duty to collect them. It serves no purpose but to undermine public administration, to show that the proceedings of the public's creditors are constantly unfair and unsubstantiated. Both the Tax Administration and our Social Security Agency continue their talks with citizens, and in particular, they provide all kinds of ease to all citizens who work and employ workers.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0051par0279	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0050par0280	I'm ending it, Mr. President. In this framework, when we take out the laws on configuration, what is the need for opposition MPs to pay their debt on time? Aren't you going to collect what the government is going to receive? You're ruining the institution. When there's a study on collecting debt -- we've just seen the example -- are you going to sink people, why do you push them, crush them? They take the opposite attitude. Yes, configurations can be needed from time to time, but this need should not be abused to create a habit of not paying your bonus and debt on time. For him, the configurations of the dates mentioned above are still in effect, providing the need and providing payment ease. I hereby declare that we will vote against the well-being of the group, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0052par0285	Mr. President, I'm so sorry I won't take your time...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0053par0286	I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Tanal, Mr. Ozgur is there, what does Mr. Ozgur say?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0054par0288	Just for the record...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0055par0289	I'm sorry, Mr. President, just for the record... Now, the Bankruptcy Association is in Turkey. There is no Bankruptant Society in the world. Mr. Orator just made it sound like everything was a rose. And why was this Bankruptcy Association founded, Mr. Hatip? So you have to ask the clerk. The ruling party needs to answer that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0056par0292	Thank you. Mr. Concubine, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0057par0294	Mr. President, there's been a disturbance. I'd like a moment of my time.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0056par0295	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0057par0298	Sir, thank you. Our precious MP, speaking on behalf of the AK PARTY, claims we've created a perception, but we're not creating a perception. Turkey currently has an app, which is the fact that you blocked 3 million, 300,000 people's bank accounts. Now, as of the end of last July, we're going to restructure again. You're explaining, like, you're putting the citizen in the opposite corner, you're accusing us of creating perception here. The guilty, the rights of our citizen here... and the attitude of our citizen is appropriate because of your misunderstandings. The citizen says: "My debts will be rebuilt, and I will wait for this configuration. You put it in your account while you trust your word and wait. Who's cheating, opposition or power?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0058par0301	Mr. Arkaz, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0059par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Since 1978, over 40 years, 7,000 police and soldiers have been killed. We've lost thousands of civilians. The cost of counterterrorism is $1.5 trillion. The organized crime organisation PKK is a subcontractor organization that receives $400 a month from the United States; it is a nuisance to the Middle East geography; it is a drug trafficker, arms trafficker, human trafficker, forest burning; it is the pawn of global forces and intelligence organisations. The dream of the baby killer PKK is to build a terrorist state in the region, creating a bloody Middle East. Supporters of this organisation are as treacherous and treacherous as the baby killer PKK. These individuals will surely be questioned. Blessed is he who says he is Turkish! I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0060par0310	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 22/10/2019 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi and his friends have proposed that the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament on 22/10/2019 to investigate the causes of the violence against physicians and health workers should be held before other motions and talks will be held on Tuesday 22/10/2019. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0061par0322	Mr. President, I have made a promise to health workers to investigate violence. I salute the Veteran Assembly. It's been six hundred years since the lines of Sultan Süleyman. As a physician, I took this statement to be my guide, reminding myself that health is the greatest wealth. We wanted to be like the health workers, especially the physicians who strive to keep people alive, human beings connected with life, health and health. You remember, when the child was asked when we were little, we first said we wanted to be doctors or teachers because we knew very well that they touched human life. And then something changed in our country, and now we've seen more of the violence of physicians than of trying to keep people alive in the newspapers, of their dignity, of their achievements. We watch violence on TV every day on hospital security cameras. Just five or six days ago, we saw a doctor slit his throat by a patient. Violence against health workers is now the plague of our time. We know that despite the investigations, the lawsuits, and the punishments, the violence in health has not stopped, it has increased, it has spread. So, I ask you, what happened to dignity gone and violence replaced it? Sadly, in the past six years, a total of 76,157 cases of violence against health workers have occurred, so 244 health workers have suffered violence a week. 21,000 of the violent health workers -- if I'm available -- were beaten to death, slashed, punctured, and attacked with firearms. Dear Regents, if we don't get the diagnosis right, we won't be able to complete the treatment. The picture here today is the bitter result of health policies that are shaped by ideological preferences and are incompatible with social facts. Why? Look, the socialization model that provides health care, healing, and equal service has been abandoned because the healthcare area has been completely privatized. The system, called the Change in Health Programme, left citizens with a sense of health as well as money. In my years as a physician, all the patients wanted to do was not wait in line, during examinations. Yes, in the new system, those lines have become history, but those who want to reduce the queues added the concept of examination with the tip of their eye. Patients are no longer devastated in the hospital corridors, but they're not cured. Unfortunately, patients don't wait for an exam, but their homes are waiting for examinations and surgery. Today, quality in health care has been replaced by quantity. It's impossible to talk about quality in a system that takes five minutes per exam. As a result, physicians became the primary subject of anger and violence because patients find physicians who have to apply, not bureaucrats who set up the system in front of them. The business peace between the performance system and the employees is also broken. Just ten days ago, a doctor in Istanbul killed his colleague on charges of underworking. If two colleagues have come to this point, there's no way to prevent violence in health without research. In fact, the best way to understand a country's healthcare system is to look at emergency services. You know, we're the only country in the world that has more emergency services applications than its population. According to the latest figures, the number of patients applying for emergency services has exceeded 111 million. You know what that number tells us? Economic and social conditions make our citizens sick, policy treatments don't cure patients, health care isn't as money as alleged, citizens who don't want to pay part of their contribution are flocking to emergency services as an escape route. You see, we have a health care system left, where we're trapped. On the other hand, critics of the 70's tube tails have now created reports queues. Even to play dodgeball today, you have to get a family doctor's medical report. It's just a situation that feeds on violence. You can't count the causes of violence. See, pharmacies have also turned to the collection branch under the name of the drug turnout. What happens if those who claim that there is a revolution in health care by saying cancer medicine pay for medicine that has not been in the market for months after losing the patient's life, or doesn't pay for it? Here's to SABIM. One reason that triggers violence is that the Ministry of Health has turned the communications center into a complaint center for health workers. In short, the spear doesn't fit in the sack anymore. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I have another minute?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0062par0334	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0061par0335	So, what did the Ministry of Health do in front of this whole painting? He took out a pamphlet last May. As a Plan Against Violence, make jokes to doctors if possible. He advised them to do so. Look at this picture, take a good look. I'm speaking to the Ministry authorities here: If the medicine you prescribed doesn't heal my pain, then you'll see. What joke will calm down a patient who cuts a doctor's neck by saying, "Please come and explain it to them, so that the violence will stop." Actually, we're at the end of the line. They're turning hospitals over to construction companies. They're feeding violence. Instead of improving working conditions, those who turn to hotel service feed violence. In exchange for construction, those who turn hospitals' imaging, labs, and O.R.s into private sectors feed violence. It's obvious that violence has become hysteria, the cost of society is unbearable. The cure is obvious, we have to do a new health reform according to the medical requirements. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Come, let's take the first step together. So that we may fulfill our responsibility to Dr. Ersin Archlans, Kamil Furtuns, and Fikret Hodjas, who were killed in his duty. I salute the General Assembly from here.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0063par0341	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, I promise Mr. Aylin Gutsy. Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0064par0344	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Violence against health workers is increasing daily, and the situation that is disturbing and threatening health care workers' safety has also made the working conditions difficult. My colleague, Dr. Kadir Songur, was stabbed in the throat with a razor blade on October 16th at İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University Hospital. Fortunately, he's in good health, but he's in grave danger. I wish him well. In the last six years, there have been nearly 80,000 cases of violence in health, dear friends. That means one doctor per hour is exposed to violence. The delusion is one of our most important problems today. We have everything that's weird -- maybe every once in a hundred years in a civilized country -- and then we're getting a normal welcome, because we're taking it for granted. Because unless precautions are taken... People are tired of telling me to do the same thing over and over and over again. In fact, that's our biggest problem in Turkey today. People are anxious and insecure; people are hungry, unemployed, angry; people are subjected to whatever may be prone to domestic and social violence. Diagnosis: the lack of peace and trust climate. Treatment: Good, fair, competent management. We've talked about this over and over again. The commission was set up in 2013, and the commission had reports, and they were told to do these things. We've made research proposals here. So here I am, this time last year, along with our Minister, Ahat Andican. You still haven't downloaded it. There are certain measures to be taken here, we say, NGOs say, but nothing is being done. How many more people are going to get hurt? All right, let's do it. You're going to say, "Let's do it." We don't know anymore. The state of the mighty Republic of Turkey has become such a state that even in African countries fighting civil war and poverty, there is less violence in health. Now, I don't call it violence in health anymore, it's called terror in health; it's terror and social madness in health. There's to be done, there's an example of England, there's a Swedish example; the government pays for all the precautions there. You have to do all this, you have to make legal arrangements, there's no need to reinvent America. And when you say America, don't be afraid, I won't go in there. You will increase the legal sanctions of those who are violent with the health worker. Look, there's an additional clause proposal here for the Turkish Penal Code, the Union of Turkish Medical Medicine, but you don't hear it; hear it, friends, hear it, listen; listen, the people of the business are talking. You'll reduce unnecessary expenses, put them to health. The problem is, yes, the Health Transformation Program in 17-year-old AK PARTY governments, which we've already told you, has failed on this bench. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more moment, please.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0065par0352	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0064par0353	Thank you. We need to get back as soon as possible, so we don't have to be too late. There are 46 physicians in the General Assembly of our High Assembly, and I'm sure we have friends among us who have just recently lost a relative, who have gone to the doctor, and I say to you: Break down now -- in our land, where worry is a flood, hope is a dream -- in our land, where you have put your chains and your consciences, in my words, don't be offended. Let alone polarizing language and rhetoric, not in health, but in every field. If you won't let us do it, you do the law proposals, we'll vote, but pass them. If you can't, come again, let's solve the real problem, let all our problems be resolved, and let's put our system -- our main problem -- into the parliamentary system -- and let's run it with a proper functioning regime and democracy, run this Assembly, the Grand Assembly; let's not people die, health terror and other terrors -- and let's end it all. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0066par0358	Mr. Bayram Yilmakaya...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0067par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President goes up to something that's not forbidden and says "haram" and "Diyanet" comes up right behind him with a fatwa. There is not a word in our Qur'an that says that smoking is forbidden, but there is no interest, no gambling, no stealing, no eating of orphan property, no bribery, no waste; yet there is no sound of religion in the Quran. In Koran courses, in cult dorms, children are raped; there is no voice in the language, but cigarettes are forbidden! Our military mayor's total salary of $250,000 is lawful, but cigarettes are forbidden! It's not forbidden for you to take a tax from a citizen for a penny, but not for a cigarette! If you say cigarettes are forbidden, why do you pay with these taxes, with which you collect the wages of the Dianet from the President of the Religion to the mosque imams? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0068par0364	Mr. Borrower...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0069par0366	Mr. President, dear MPs, this is Akchakale, the Serhat district of Şanlıurfa, which Turkey has launched -- right next to Tel Abyad, the crowds of soldiers passing through the streets, the strong artillery shots, the ambulances coming in and out of the border line from a few miles away -- civilian citizens are being killed by mortars that fall from the other side of the border, injuries and material losses. However, there appears to be great support for the operation among Akchakale residents. Many houses and jobs in the district have been hung by the Turkish flag, and the billboards are equipped with banners supporting the operation. I thank our Mayor Mehmet Yalçınkaya, who came to visit us in parliament to inform us of the situation in Akchakale and border lengths, saying that the holy Turkish nation will always be with them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0070par0369	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0071par0371	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our national wrestler Taha Akgül, won the gold medal at the World Military Olympic Games in China. Taha Akgül, who proudly waved our flag all over the world, congratulates my brother, and I wish him a continued success. Mr. Edip Semih Yalçın, the precious son of Mr. Turan İlteber Yalçin, was killed by accident last Thursday night. My brother Turan Liteber Yalçin, who left us at a young age, will always be remembered with love, respect, and conversation. My brave brother Turan Ilteber Yalçin, who dwells in the hearts of his chaste, moral, courageous, gentleman, and sincere personality, is mercifully and gratefully, and his precious memory will always live in our hearts. Our Vice President, Mr. Edip Semih Yalçin Bey, I offer my condolences to the honorable family and to the community. May his soul be blessed and his place in heaven. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0072par0374	Mr. Anres...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0073par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. I have been promised to express a victim of our citizens who live in the District of Marketmaster of Tripoli, my constituency district. Despite the years that have passed before Tripoli became a major city, the bulging bills that had recently arrived in the waters of the plateau, which had been completed a few months ago have victimised our citizens living in the neighborhoods of Karadızköy, Pınarlı, Küçükköy, Şahinli, Erenköy, Yavuzköy, Yeniköy, Çallı, Samsun, Samsun, Taşlıtepe, Serbilköy and Kovonlı. People who wait patiently for the day when water will become drinkable with decontamination are surprised at what they face with bills sent back to them by TİSKI, whose numbers are worth millions. I'd like to welcome you to our great House on the matter of resolving the victims of our citizens in these 13 neighborhoods. Also, thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0074par0383	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I promise Mr. Mustafa Esgin. Here you go, Mr. Esgin.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0075par0386	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. From the first day we came to power in 2002, we created a world model in health with the Health Transformation Programme that we put into practice. This model has three parameters. Yes, we've split the health service presentation and financing. In the service presentation of health care, we have collected hospitals, state hospitals, state railway hospitals, and other institutions, under the umbrella of the Ministry of Health. We've reformed our social security system, and we've put all the communities under social security umbrellas. With the family medicine system, we went to the world's place in first-level health care. According to the revolutionary practices and TÜİK statistics, health satisfaction rates at 39 per cent of the time have reached 78 per cent. The baby's rate of death has been reduced from 40 to 1,000 to 8 percent, while significant reductions in the mother's death rate have been recorded. We can also say that our hospitals and health care institutions have raised the standard of physical environment and service to the highest standards. We continue our work in this scope under many topics, from the working conditions of our medical staff to the physical arrangements in our hospitals. The development of health care and health care culture is also one of our top priorities. We desire that this understanding be shared in all aspects by all health workers and our patients. In doing this sacred service, violence against our dedicated health workers, whose purpose is to serve people, is a problem that no conscience can accept and must be fought until the end, not just for the medics. To approach the issue as a matter of security and to seek its solution at just one point is not the result. For that, I believe we as a society have to develop an attitude toward violence. It is one of our primary goals to create an environment where the patient can serve safely and the physician can serve safely. In this regard, we have prepared the Plan for Violence in Health, and we are taking it step by step. We've turned the measures we've taken against the attacks on health workers into a holistic healthcare program that we've started. Our ministry is taking the necessary steps regarding violence in health without hesitation and takes precautions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0076par0393	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0077par0394	What did you do? What did you do?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0075par0395	In particular, since 2002, we have implemented proactive practices, both under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and in the view of the Ministry of Health, aimed at preventing violence in health. These applications are being monitored with precision and the scope of the health and safety of the health workers continues to be especially developed. In addition to the patient rights unit, which has been active in the Ministry of Health for about 15 years, security units and the White Code application have been activated for nearly seven years, and two important legal regulations in 2018 are important steps taken at this point. We have recognized the possibility that those who show a lack of violence towards our health workers can be tried under the CMK article 100. I hereby congratulate you, on behalf of my nation, the heroes of our health army, our devoted physicians, our nurses, our paramedics, and all our health workers, who are ready to serve wherever our beloved nation needs to serve.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0078par0399	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0079par0400	I'll give you my word on your position. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0078par0404	Mr. President, in the previous period and nine times before that, after the group's suggestions for violence against the physician were rejected, the commission was established when our brother was stabbed in the stomach in front of all of Turkey and drowned us all in tears. We see again today that the Justice and Development Party intends to reject such a delicate issue. This vote has historical significance, we're going down in history. From this point on, I'd like to invite our group to call a roll call and then an open vote. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0079par0408	Mr. Keven, Mr. Keven, Mr. Hawk, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Aksoy, Mr. Ilhan, Mr. Süçal, Mr. Sırçal, Mr. Sarıaslan, Mr. Şevkin, Mr. Ilgezdi, Mr. Keven, Mr. Keven, Mr. Keven, Mr. Hawk, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Aksoy, Mr. Ilhan, Mr. Yüsal, Mr. Yilmazkaya, Mr. Yüld. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0080par0412	Mr. President, I'm asking you, let's put an announcement in the garden, the deputy friends don't hear it in the garden, so they can't come to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit01spe0079par0414	There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0079par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the Republican People's Party Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. I'm going to repeat the roll call now. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0081par0012	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement regarding the matter that was just passed after the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0079par0013	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0081par0016	Thank you, my dear President. When our CHP Group Deputy had just taken the word, I asked for a word on that statement, and your witness had been moved to roll call because he had been asked to. But I'd like to point out that the fact that we just voted no to this motion doesn't mean that we're not against violence. It's a distortion. We are a party that demonstrates to all kinds of violence and especially health workers that we are against violence through legal regulations. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that at least 20 MPs may want to be called upon to stand up or make a motion to vote during the voting of the laws and the 57th amendment of the House Council. Therefore, the motions do not require a roll call. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's unacceptable to look out for this as an opportunism and try to bring about the closure of the High Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0082par0022	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0083par0023	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0082par0025	Mr. President, first of all, let's say that we just said yes to violence, you said no. We didn't say no. What we're saying is, these kinds of motions are historical motions. Who's in the living room, who's not in the living room, needs a roll call. Why? Fifteen days before the Soma disaster, all mines are safe. Are the MPs at ease now? While we vote, we want everyone to vote consciously and consciously doing what they get from the people and the conscience. That's our determination. Otherwise, those who say yes say, "No." We didn't have a sentence like that. However, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group had arranged what they said in the Civil Code, which they said was an opportunity to comply with the Constitutional amendment, which was intended for the regime. We went to the Supreme Court...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0083par0028	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0082par0029	...the Constitutional Court has decided that the Parliament will conduct all kinds of procedures under any circumstances, with the number of meetings in the hall, and in this case, it will be carried out in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, both with your right decision and with the decision of all legislators before each vote -- as it was before. He was in the Civil Code of Opportunity, which was in your heart, after the amendment to the regime -- I say so in the same word -- which you did with opportunism. The Constitutional Court has interpreted this in accordance with the Constitutional Court, it is disrespectful to try to employ this Parliament with 80 people. Besides, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have very important preparations on our agenda. I've informed our fellow congressmans that they're weak at the point of their participation in Congress, and I've informed our friends of the Group President and the Vice President. Shame on us if we can't give three days of our time as a model party to these Parliamental studies. He says your friends shouldn't pick you up from the gardens and bring you to the group. You're still defending the vote with 30 other people.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0083par0031	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0084par0033	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, some of our friends are visiting themselves on the Commission...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0085par0035	What commission?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0084par0036	The Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0085par0037	How many are there, how many are there?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0084par0038	We have friends working at the Plan and Budget Commission right now. It's also about listening to the problems of our citizens who come to visit them, and solving their problems. Look, 20 MPs who just asked for roll call weren't here after roll call, we had 7-8 CHP friends. So respect your own request first, dear friends. After all, the Constitutional Court's justified verdict does not tie us to the outcome. The Constitutional Court's decision binds everyone, but its reasons are separate issues, which are subject to another clause. There's always 200 people here, with the House opening... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...accepted or it won't open anyway. Let's open up and...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0086par0044	It's open, it's open!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0084par0045	I'm finishing my words, sir. As a result, we're all aware that he's here without 200 people. As it turns out, over 200 of our deputies are obviously here. Because, dear friends, we all know and practice it together. Thus, our nation itself appreciates who did the opportunistic work. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0087par0048	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0088par0050	Mr. President, in fact, Mr. Group, I have no problem understanding the Vice President and the MPs, and I don't blame what he's done, and I don't find it very difficult. Because the nation's representatives have been discredited along with the parliament they're in, thanks to that freaky system called the current presidency government system. Can you tell me what the MPs are doing here? They'll just make orders from the mansion legal and make them legal, but other than that, the MPs have no function. So I'm not too weird about his friends either, so being here has become a form of persecution for them, and I understand them.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0089par0051	Look at how many good people you got back there.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0088par0052	Your earlier statement: We are trying to listen to the problems of our citizens and come up with ideas to resolve them. With whom? Can you see the ministers?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0089par0053	Turn around and see how many there are.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0088par0054	Where, have you ever seen a minister? Look at the open photos, and I'm telling you, I'm going to bring them to your group, I'm going to show you pictures of the ministers, they're going to have a lot of trouble counting their names, and they're not wrong about that, because you can't see those ministers. It's normal that we don't see it, we're the opposition party, the ministers may not take us very well, but even you don't. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's all the system's fault. If you do not desist from this system that has disgraced Parliament, you will always find it difficult for these MPs to join this parliament. I make a claim to you that if we ask you to do a roll call on every session like Mr. Free Special, it's impossible for you to run the House here, you'll spill out like this, you'll spill wires. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0090par0058	Mr. Special, come in. Let's wrap it up, too.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0091par0061	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, what we've just heard, let alone the Party's Deputy Group President, who has the most seats in a parliament, is unacceptable, even if it's normally expressed by a very distant citizen. You're going to go to the nation, you're going to ask for votes, you're going to run that crate, you're going to live this box. You're going to get the most seats here with the votes of the nation, then there's going to be 35 deputies in the hall, and the Group Vice President will say, "You did it in the first place, even if not the president, you did it in the first place, and you opened it in the first place. You said: I believe there are 200 people here. It says: "With 35 or 40 people, it can exist and continue all day." I can't even describe it to the members of the ruling party, let alone the Regents of Parliament. This is a public insult to the Presidential Court. You're not doing the job, you're pretending to be 200 people, even though there are 35 of you, against the Constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President. He calls it the Presidential Court. So right now -- 1 Justice and Development Party, 1 Republican People's Party, 1 Nationalist Movement Party member -- says to the committee that rules the House in your opinion of the Council: we all know it can do like 200, even 40. I don't accept this, and if any Parliamentary Vice President opens it with observation in the session of Mr. Group Vice President, it will be under his purview. And for that, I beg of you, I beg you, do not open the gentleman's sessions with him with any certainty, and electronically confirm that those 200 people are here. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0092par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0093par0069	Mr. Akbasoglu, let's not continue this. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0092par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. But what the gentleman says is a big twist. I've just used the issue of the search for the number 200 to refer to the Constitutional Court's rational decision, which is a number that should always be called. However, as always, we face a distortion. Glory be to the Council of Presidents. I thank you for these words in the presence of the House.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0094par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0095par0076	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0094par0078	Mr. President, if the testimony of Mr. Group Vice President is read from the transcripts, there is an embezzlement to the committee of your client's acting president. According to the Civil Code, Mr. Group, we demand that the Vice President be punished with contempt. We don't see this insult to your committee as normal, we deny it. In the face of this insult we have denied, Mr. Group, we demand that the Vice President be given a reprimand based on provisions. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0095par0080	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 22/10/2019 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's "The Proposals of Law and Other Actions From Commissions" shall be taken into the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th positions of the law, respectively, and the order of other tasks according to this one. On Tuesday (October 22nd 2019) the meeting of the President's Office of the General Assembly was held in the same joint meeting of the President's Office, which was dated 17/10/2019 and (3/882), until the meeting of the President's Office of the President was completed by reading and reading and meeting until the meeting of the General Assembly of Law Proposal number 106 in this merger. Until the completion of the talks on Tuesday, October 22, 2019, until the meeting of the Law Proposal 106, on Wednesday (October 23, 2019), in which the talks of the works to the end of the talks were not completed until October 22, 2019; Until the completion of the talks on Wednesday (October 23, 2019) until the meeting of the Law Proposal 106th on Thursday (October 24, 2019); On Wednesday (October 30, 2019), until the completion of the first chapter talks of Law Proposal 106, Until the meeting of Thursday (October 31st, 2019), until the meeting of the Law Proposal 33rd, when the talks were completed, The Law Proposal 106 is to be considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code and to have its sections in the accompanying form; It's recommended. 106 Orders Edirne MP Fatma Aksal and Kayseri MP İsmail Emrah Karayel and 40 MPs' proposal for changes in Water Products Law [[2/2214]] On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, I promise Mr. Lütfu Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0096par0106	Mr. President, I'm amazed you don't see this testimony pointed at you personally in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as appropriate for any criminal sanctions. Blasphemy is a very common business in society, but...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0095par0108	Mr. Turkkan, no one can insult the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Parliament that we represent, by knowing what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey applies to, and not humiliate the Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0096par0109	Well, I'd call it a reprimand. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] It's not welcome in society, it's not right, but sometimes when you speak the truth, it can be considered an insult. For example, is Mr. Zülfü Demirkle here? He's out there now, and I've seen a lot today -- Mr. Zülfu Demirbağ, a time when he was in the middle again -- and I told him, "Don't talk!" and reminded him of the corruption, embezzlement and intimidation crimes he's been tried for in the past, when he was working at the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0097par0112	4. Heavy Penalty...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0096par0113	He's been tried for aggravated punishment. And he's gone, and he's suing for compensation.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0098par0115	And he won.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0096par0116	I put all the newspaper clippings on these files that day, including the Morning newspaper, which is now in the pool media, and I asked the court, please ask for these files. Because we can't see the files. You ask for it, you evaluate it. Now, look, it's not an insult to call a person a murderer if he's a murderer; if he's corrupting someone, it's not an insult. That's something to prove. Dear friends, when a person gets up and blames someone, he says, "No, I didn't commit corruption. I didn't commit any misdemeanor, embezzlement, but all the MPs who followed Istanbul know that our friend here was seriously tried for these crimes, one of the biggest perpetrators of that time.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0099par0118	What happened? Then what happened?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0096par0119	Now I paid the $7,500. After today, I expect him to file a criminal suit or another lawsuit. We're going to keep paying, we're going to end this season like this, but I'm going to make him face these files every time. Now, about the budget. The country's most important issue is the budget. The budget is short, the government has difficulty paying salaries as long as the budget is short. We're hearing a new bill coming up, and I don't know how real it is. There's an offer of law on the rights of civil servants and workers who deserve compensation. Twenty years, twenty-five years of labor, the officer's greatest expectation is to collect his compensation and complete the rest of his life in a more comfortable, peaceful way. If you pay this compensation, these people won't be able to rest for the rest of their lives. If such preparation exists, I would like to ask the ruling party MPs first to withdraw this preparation from your great Parliament. There's a traffic ticket issue. When you turn us around, the only thing everyone says is that they give a lot of tickets, we pay a lot of fines. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0100par0124	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0096par0125	They fine everything, they fine every move. They call it a traffic ticket. Traffic tickets literally undermine people's budget as people struggle to make ends meet. Ecrimisil punishments; I know that, in the village of Demircis, Dilova's village of Tepecik, he has two cows in the barn, he has a small overflow, he has a small shipment of treasure land, and he says: "What if I sell two of my cows, I can't pay for it?" The man who destroyed the barn, he is leaving. So you can't fix a budget deficit with traffic tickets, and you can't afford to fine the stables where the villagers keep their cows alive. The main way to solve the budget deficit is to produce. I'll give you a number. There's latex gloves, you know? Latex gloves used by physicians, vets, even ladies, beauticians, are one of the simplest productions. They don't make latex gloves in Turkey, and we pay him $150 million. What a sin, what a shame, isn't it? There's no solution but to encourage them to produce and not stop producing. So we can't get up and give the peasant a ticket, give the car a ticket, and cover the budget. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0102par0131	Here you go, I promise you where you are. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0134	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, the spokesman who was just on the stand, said that I have been accused of theft and corruption and so on, because of a case against me in Istanbul City Hall in the past. At that time, when Mr. President was mayor, there were lawsuits filed against all municipal officials, especially our president, by investigators who were sent by the government at the time to finish his job -- not to mention his name. In my case, as a member of the C.E.A.C. board, we gave a general manager the power to use machines -- just this -- to use a business machine in a tree plant; therefore, it was opened for irregularity and decided not to follow me.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0135	No, Rahsan is caught in your pardon; it's not stalking.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0136	If you look at the nature of the case, it's been ruled non-obsession.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0137	A punishment for the forgiveness of the priest.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0138	When I wasn't a congressman, I was decided not to follow.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0139	The priest is caught in your pardon. Don't fool people; I know the file.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0140	Just hear me out!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0141	I know the file, and I didn't want to say it in case you were embarrassed.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0142	It's been ruled untraceable. You got up, you accused me of it, I sued you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0143	It's not you, it's you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0144	You accused me of stealing; I made 10 billion; it's not final. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I don't want this money... it's a waste of money, it's illegal for me. Why? Because I don't feed money to my kids who don't know where they're coming from.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0145	I didn't steal from the city, I didn't steal from the city. Relax! I didn't steal it from the city; relax!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0101par0146	No, no, no, don't take this the wrong way; if you'll excuse me, I'm not gonna feed my own children money that I don't know the source of it, that I don't know the source of it.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0147	I didn't corrupt the city, so relax! Relax, I didn't steal it.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0104par0148	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0149	All of Istanbul knows what you are. Look, all of Istanbul knows what you are.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0105par0150	I'm going to buy that money, and I'm going to serve it to my friends, and I'm going to buy it with your personality, and I'm going to offer it to them.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0151	Everyone in Istanbul knows you, everyone knows you, and everyone knows what kind of corruption you're involved in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0105par0152	I'm going to buy a dessert with your personality and offer it to friends.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0103par0153	All of Istanbul knows you. All of Istanbul knows you, she knows you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0106par0157	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Free Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0107par0160	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the highly valued young friends who watched the session, made a constitutional amendment to the regime on April 16th, the Justice and Development Party; and then, since we were all children, the Constitution we know as flag red has printed the color of Turquoise, the color of the palace. I've spent the last year criticizing this, and although it's finally meriable, but before and after the change, before and after the change, the State of Emergency is not legitimate with injustices, oppression and inequality, but the Constitution is the color that the House should be in, not the color of turquoise, but the color of the flag. We were happy to follow that our struggle has led to results. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What about the group proposal, how will the House work? While the Constitutional amendment was being made for the regime, we said: "The ministers of the nation are now coming out of the parliament elected by the nation, and although they are on the outside as an exception, they are taking the vote, along with the cabinet, and if necessary, they can be audited and lowered with their vote of insecurity mechanisms, but if you go into the order of the minister of the court, you will go to the mouth of the people who are taking authority from the people who are looking into the mouth of the head of the people's affairs." Whatever we criticised in the amendment, your camp filed a complaint last summer and after summer. We can't reach the ministers, they don't answer the phones, they're too arrogant. What are their solutions? It's a duty minister app. It's the most embarrassing exercise in the history of politics in the world. If you hadn't made the amendment to the regime, those ministers would have been sitting here, now they've ripped out their seats. On Tuesdays, you were able to ask your request, your control, your verbal questions against them and your face with the most important means of control, passing your note, reaching out. Now the ministers are taking turns in a room upstairs, and as the nation's minister comes to the parliament of the nation, at the leg of the nation's deputy, now you're going to their feet to get to the ministers. So you've been set up with an interview, a contact room. We don't accept it, we consider it an extremely shameful situation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The practice of the on-call minister is a confession in the reality of the pathetic situation you brought the country into, acceptance on paper, and a physical disgrace to Parliament. The Minister is responsible for the House. If today's minister isn't responsible for you... Our female ministers and male ministers, who have answered 7 percent of the written question proposals, are mind-blowing. I can't ask verbal questions, I can't give you the gene, and I'll tell you one thing, our nation has chosen someone for five years, and someone's gonna do it all, and we're gonna play finger lifts here. Look, this system doesn't need MPs' conscience, hearts, and minds, just to get them to enter your fingers, read your fingerprints, and vote together. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is the most disrespectful to the nation, the Parliament. Woe to those who place their deputy in charge.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0108par0168	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement because of the bullying.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0109par0169	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0108par0172	Of course, there's no way to participate in any of the conversations we just had. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, and on April 16th, our nation carried out its sovereignty in a referendum. The presidential government system is not down by force, but by will of the nation. Everyone has to respect the will of the people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for turquoise: turquoise is a Turkish color, the color of the Turkish nation, not the color of the palace or anywhere else. The red is ours and the turquoise is ours.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0110par0175	You'll make turquoise out of a flag!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0108par0176	Don't discriminate between the colors. The shape, schematic, shape of our moon star flag is written in our Constitution; it cannot be changed, it cannot be proposed. It's soup when you mix it, and unfortunately, the truth disappears. Dear friends, therefore, there is no attempt on the regime in this matter. Our regime is a republican regime. Instead of the Parliamentary government system, the presidential government system is responsible, by the will of the nation. You requested the duty of the duty minister. We want to see the ministers here, we want to talk to them. The opposition, you were demanding. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result, your request has been met, why are you still shouting?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0111par0181	The General Assembly, the General Assembly, not up there.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0108par0182	The parliament conducts legislation within the framework of the harsh forces' separation system, and demonstrates its right to control it as the Supreme Court against both the President and the ministers. The ministers are both legally and politically responsible to the Parliament. I want this on the record like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0112par0184	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0113par0186	Mr. President, the reason for this panic is that everything is clearly out in the open. On your way to the nation, you said there would be a strong parliament, whereas one MP didn't really, in fact, participate in the legislature activities held last semester. And the beholders gave them glad tidings. They said: 'We have prepared this law, and we send it. You have signed it and committed a crime against the Constitution. In a constitutional amendment passed by 51%, the nation decided with a slight difference in a period when you told them 45 television channels, 35 newspapers, 800 local newspapers, all the resources of the state, under covered grants and the State of Emergency bat and completely misled the citizen. If you have the courage, just bring the President's neutrality clause to the referendum, and let the people show it to you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0114par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0115par0190	I don't think that's enough...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0114par0191	I'm finishing, sir. I'm finishing with a sentence.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0115par0192	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0114par0194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on April 16, 2017 this issue was presented to the referendum, and our nation has made up its mind. Under the current conditions, the presidential elections were held in 2018, as it stands. The local government elections were held on March 31, 2019, and it was again confirmed by the nation that the Cumhur Alliance reached 53.54 percent of its views on this new system. The defeated wraith would not be satisfied with wrestling. I want to say over and over again that bringing this matter to the front of the system, keeping people busy, has nothing to do but disrupt the work of the House, and I invite everyone to respect the will of the nation.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0115par0196	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0116par0199	We demand roll call.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit02spe0115par0200	We're going to roll call. Mr. Süslü, Mr. Emre, Mr. Sümer, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Karabat, Mr. Keven, Mr. Şevkin, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Kıncü, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. İlhan, Mr. Unsal, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Kadıgil, Mr. Bülbül, Mr. Yilmakaya. I'll start roll call, give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0115par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the roll call was not enough. I'm going to repeat the roll call now. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, there is a presidential statement issued according to Article 92 of the Constitution: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the permission of the United Nations Security Council to adopt Decision 1701 (2006) and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for a year under its decision of 05,9,2006 and 880, Turkey contributed to the United Nations Temporary Task Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon. The length of the permit is finally extended a year from 31/10/2018 to 1201, dated 16/10/2018 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With its contribution to UNIFIL, Turkey has taken an important role in carrying out an effective implementation of the peacekeeping operation. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has served to increase its appearance in all sections of Lebanon through regional and global civil-military cooperation activities, as well as through the United Nations system, and to maintain its policy to maintain peace and stability. It is considered important to continue our contribution to UNIFIL. UNIFIL's mandate was extended to 31/8/202020, dated 29/8/2019 of the United Nations Security Council and dated 2485 (2019). In light of these issues and in light of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and security conditions in the region, under the UN Security Council's decision 2485 (2019) to extend UNIFIL's mandate; the border, the sum and the amount will be determined by the President of the Turkish Armed Forces, according to Article 92 of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 (2006) and the principles determined by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey (880) under the principles set out by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey (880/10/2019). Now, according to the decision made, I'm going to hold a meeting on the Constitution of the President according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm going to promise the groups and two members on behalf of them. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for the groups and ten minutes for the individuals. I'm having them read the names of the members of lawmakers who were quoted on the counter. 1) Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. 2) On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. 3) İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Açvikçü on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. 4) In the name of the Justice and Development Party Group, Kopeeli MP Fikri Iş. 1) İstanbul MP Onursal Adıl Yüzel. 2) İstanbul MP Iffet Polat. [[Whistling]] Congressmans, your voices are making a noise as you speak. Therefore, those who wish to speak, please go backstage, Councillors.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0117par0037	Mr. President, they turned this place into coffee, I swear.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0115par0038	Now, on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, I promise Mr. Aydın Adnan Sezgin. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0118par0041	Mr. President, we support a year-long extension of our armed forces, which have contributed to the United Nations Security Council resolution in Lebanon, as of November 2019. The international mission, which is part of UNIFIL, performs an important task in a region very close to our country, contributing to peacekeeping efforts. Lebanon is a country in which we are historically close, which is important in our social memory, and it contains our family members. Turkey's contribution to regional and global peace and stability on the international grounds of legitimacy is in line with the republic's traditional foreign policy. Therefore, it is normal for us to support the extension of this mandate by the Turkish Armed Forces. Today, Lebanon is going through a serious process of social tension, just like some other Arab countries. I want to make sure that these recent developments stemming from the regime of countries of interest, from bad governance, from sociology, from internal dynamics, that the government does not misread as in events that began in 2010 and that it does not turn to false policies. [[Whistling]] Mr. President, I think there's a lot of buzzing.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0119par0047	Congressmans, we're considering an important matter. You're not giving me a chance to listen to the caller, so if anyone wants to talk, let's go backstage.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0120par0048	Mr. President, would you look in the back for God's sake?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0119par0049	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm telling you, my friends. Here you go, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0121par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Between Turkey and Lebanon, there is Syria, which has become a major threat to us, a danger zone. Sadly, 17 years of power is a great responsibility for Syria's situation. You know, they're meeting with Mr. President Putin, the President of Russia -- in Sochi, still in session today. What is he negotiating, Mr. President? ▪ How can we limit the enormous threat we have created to ourselves and the costs we have endured so far? How can we reduce the burden of millions of Syrian refugees? So what steps can we take to the August 2011 conditions where we are far away today and are likely to stay away for a long period of time? That's the problem. How can we eliminate the dangers of national security from Syria, which is our 911 mile limit? We were forced to discuss this with the United States and Russia in a specific position in both countries. This is a really sad painting. The state of the Republic of Turkey has never been in such a situation. Let's refresh our memory, go to the beginning of the Syrian crisis. At the beginning of the ruling crisis, he targeted regime change in Syria as a direct methhaldar to the field from August 2011. Let's be clear, in Syria he wanted the Muslim Brotherhood to rule, Ihvan (Ihvan); he sought revenge for the Hama-Humus massacre in 1982; he thought Syria could be controlled by an Ihvan regime. Yeah, he's got some delusions. Look at the newspapers of July 2012, some of the spokesmen of power have also referred to oil sources in this country as a reason for Turkey's position in Syria. In fact, our national interests, the potential threats to our national security have been completely ignored, co-operated with armed groups that were not in Syria. The Damascus regime, considering the balance of power in 2012, withdrew from Ayn al-Arab, a.k.a. Kobani, to Kamishlı, and left the region to identical terrorist groups with PKK. From the summer of 2012, there were formations called cantons. Another important development occurred in 2012 after the withdrawal of the United States from Iraq. Part of the oppressed Sunni Arab population has turned to the Islamic State of Iraq, which is a completely illegitimate terrorist organization called the Islamic State of Iraq. This organization also skis on the Syrian floor and is named after the Islamic State of Damascus. The organisation was mauled both in Iraq and Syria by taking advantage of the lack of authority. Unfortunately, at that time, Turkey was flooded with foreign fighters, foreign jihadists; they had found logistical support, and were able to infiltrate Syria. ISIS has taken control of a large area in both Syria and Iraq, including Mosul, near Baghdad. Musul will be remembered for their offensive raid on our consulate. In the fall of 2014, during the attack on ISIS's Ayn Al-Arab/Kobani, the United States was supported by the PSYD-YPG/PKK. This supports the terrorist nature of PYD-YPG/PKK. The open and total contact between the United States and this terrorist structure began, unfortunately, with the evil alliance. Again, there is a great share of the wrongs of power here. In January 2015, opposition forces to Damascus seized Idlib (Idlib) with the help of Turkey, Qatar (Katar) and Saudi Arabia, which we were co-operating with at the time. This development triggered Russia's direct intervention in the war, which sought to prevent the collapse of the regime. So Ankara did not foresee or calculate that Russia, which had adopted Crimea in March 2014, could go to war in Syria. That Russian plane was shot down in a state of mind and confusion. I gave him power within himself, and you gave him power. He got into a fight, he ran and took his breath in NATO, and he didn't know what to do. And for a year and a half, Turkey did not take any initiative in Syria. After that, Moscow was apologized, the diet was paid, and in Syria we became a fully obedient country. I'm calling power: you set up your Syrian policy wrong from the beginning, you misread your accounts and your reading. You've made these mistakes with your swings, you've made new mistakes in order to correct the wrongs. Your Syrian policy has given no one confidence. A few wrongs, thanks to Mehmetchik, are partially compensated, and if they are fundamental mistakes, unfortunately, they can't be repaired. Because of these mistakes, foreign forces from far away, hostile environments have been located in Syria, macheted. As danger grew over time, the risks increased. In the face of this storm of threats from Syria to the Republic of Turkey, we of course would support Operation Peace Fountain, just as we did in Cerablus, as in Afrin, we stand by our army, just as in the struggle in northern Iraq. At the coming point, we stressed the importance of Turkish Armed Forces taking the necessary position against developments that threaten our national security. In these circumstances, there is no party or party; there is only one party, and that is the al flag party. We're in a new phase today. What is clear is that he did his duty in politics, he did his duty in our nation, and Mehmetchik succeeded in doing his duty, and now, business is on the table and in the government. There is a consensus with the United States. Joint statement text and official statements, published after talks between Turkey and the US delegations, also point to some positive progress, along with many uncertainties. We have a very delicate process ahead of us. In the process, power must follow an accurate line. Our hope is that a new chain of mistakes will not begin, that it will be returned from the wrong accounts, that it will be followed in a manner that is consistent with the concept of mental and national interest. We've been keeping a close eye on the developments. The statements in the joint statement are limited to the area under our supervision today. In Syria, however, there was talk of the goal of a safe area in which we would have authority from the east of Fırat to the border with Iraq. This target remains in limbo. We are now negotiating with Russia to eliminate threats from outside our control areas that could lead to national security. Sooner or later, we'll have to negotiate with the Syrian administration, which is close. Turkey has given up all Ayn al-Arabic and the border areas very close to Tel Abyad, and so has Menbic, one of the areas it aims to control as it launches the operation. These regions fall into the hands of the Syrian administration. Similar developments are taking place in areas near the Iraqi border. The proposal to place 12 watchtowers along the 911-mile border has been negatively received by Tehran. We do not yet know Moscow's opinion on this matter. On the other hand, reports are that the United States has handed over some of its facilities to the Russian forces, including the ones used in air operations. It is known that Russia and the regime rule west of Fırat. The attacks by Russia and Syria's forces on Idlib have been increasing, and it seems that a final action against Idlib will soon be carried out. Such action is a first-degree risk to our country. With this operation taking place, Ayn al-Araba is critical to the region between Tel Abyad and Rasulayn, not towards Turkey, but under our control. Even if the area from Karkamis to the border with Iraq is declared a safe zone and the depth of this region is determined to be 20 miles [30 km], further challenges will arise just beyond that depth, which we do not want. We know the draft text that Russia prepared for the Constitutional talks in Geneva on October 30th. Neither Moscow nor Damascus will look at the PYD-YPG/PKK with us in an identical way, and the two parties will approach the terrorist organization with different paradigms. Their relationship's history is different, their fabric is different, their future perspective is separate. However, Moscow's view of the PYD-YPG/PKK is different from that of Damascus. In addition, the short, medium and long-term national interest assessments of these countries' approaches to the organisation will carry weight. And then there's the Iranian factor. In my speech from this platform on October 8th, I asked the ruling authority the question: did you consider how you could compromise with Russia and Iran in the event of the withdrawal of U.S. troops? ▪ I hope such an assessment has been done before and will be brought back to our nation from Sochi. Let me be clear: While I sincerely wish that this would happen, I don't see the chances of that happening at this stage very high, and I'm worried that we're being forced into a different, heavy, al-ver relationship. One of the first problems that comes to mind in this framework is the HTŞ, Al Qaedali, and the civilians who are ready to run in every direction at any time, and especially the Idlib, which I mentioned earlier, along with our Mehmet-chik, who was stationed there. And I remember saying that in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, we were encouraged by our Russian friends about all these risks related to Syria. Well, back to the beginning of my speech, the 2011 conditions seem like a dream, unfortunately, very far away. All this risk, all this danger, all this cost, all this pain, all this refugee politics is the result of your mistakes from the beginning to the present. At least from now on, don't be misled, don't be deceived. You can start by correcting your wrong approaches by giving the US President's deeply hurtful, insulting and threatening letter to our nation, and his other statements, in this case, without passing, or delaying. In particular over the past decade, the government has thought about how the international system can change the international system rather than think about how Turkey can strengthen its interests and position in its proper way. International balances, yes, are going through a major transformation. Turkey must adapt, of course, but you can't do that on the charge of changing the structure, the functioning of the international system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0122par0070	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0121par0071	Thank you. Instead of developing a long-term strategy, you can't be a quarterback and a changeling actor by following a sustained approach and creating new and hard-to-resolved destructions in our relations with countries in the region at each time. For this, you must first return their dignity to the memory of our state, the State Department and its members, whose reputation and function have been destroyed. You can't have diplomacy without a degree and a degree. In addition, the facility of a reinforced democratic parliamentary system will surely be very appropriate, even essential, to ensure maximum efficiency in our foreign policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I finish my words, I pray for immediate healing for our veterans, both with respect, gratitude, and mercy, who have been martyred in the last few days or in other battles during the Battle of the Fountain of Peace. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0123par0078	On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, I promise Mr. Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0124par0081	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Constitutional Movement Party Group, which has been issued to the United Nations Temporary Task Force in Lebanon to extend the Turkish Armed Forces' contribution for a year. I salute your honorable committee. UNIFIL was created by the UN Security Council's Decision 1701 in 2006. Turkey has been one of the highest contributors since the beginning, to the Security Force, which was created in Lebanon for the purpose of the establishment of peace and its maintenance. Turkey has never seen contribution to international peacekeepers as just a military case. Turkey has also contributed to human and social development through human and public activities in its areas, especially within UNIFIL, in 2006-2013, to regional development, as well as activities such as construction of freeways, construction of electrical lines, construction of waste water networks, maintenance facilities, construction of healthcare facilities. The support of our UNIFIL Task Force from the people of Lebanon also shows how accurate and reliable Turkey has been. Turkey is a major and active country in the region, and it will take part and take part in almost all of the designs envisioned throughout the region as one of the main actors. It is a reflection of this need that our country is the only country in the UNIFIL. Turkey will continue to support the country's territorial integrity, political independence in the face of any attempt aimed at the stability of Lebanon, because what happens in Lebanon affects not only this country, but the entire region, and thus Turkey. Turkey is located in the middle of the Balkans, Caucasus, Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia geography. In these five sea basins, Turkey's security and cultural borders are beyond its political limits. More specifically, Turkey's Middle East border requires security beyond the Iraqi-Syrian border. The facility and protection of peace and stability also contributes to the security of Ankara, İstanbul, Diyarbakır, Urbana, Hatay, and Edirne. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's contribution to regional and international peace and security has a history of up to 70 years. With its contribution to peacekeeping operations over the next 70 years, Turkey is a expected, missed and trusted country. Every Turk carrying our moon star flag is a guarantee of stability and peace in his peacekeeping power. Turkey already contributes to the construction of the United Nations peacekeeping force and peace, one of the countries that contribute most to these operations is Turkey. The contribution to international peace, security and stability is the basis of international law. As the Republic of Turkey, we combine the responsibility that the geography has placed on us with a consciousness based on international law, contributing to regional and international activities. There is nothing wrong or unofficial about Turkey's ability to perform cross-border operations to protect its own security in the international law context, which offers the strongest contribution in peace and security through international organisations. Turkey operates on a right, legal and legitimate basis. Fourteen days ago, under this roof, we accepted a thesis authorizing Turkish Armed Forces to operate across the border. On October 9, 2019, we set out to secure peace and stability in the region by clearing the north of Syria, especially the terrorist organizations of the east of Fırat. From the beginning, we stressed that this action was a right and responsibility stemming from international law and, in particular, UN decisions. This action is a fight against terrorism, an operation to establish security on Turkey's southern borders. With this action, Turkey also fulfills its obligation to international peace and security. In the beginning of the operation, international law is our basis. As shown in Article 51 of the United Nations Convention, no decision of the agreement is allowed to deal with a state if it is subjected to a planned attack. When someone attacks you, you intervene to protect yourself. Hundreds of terrorist attacks have been launched from the region to our country. PYD-YPG and PKK are the same organisation. From terrorist inventory to the deployment and management of terrorists, these two organisations are one. This relationship has been reflected in judgment. For example, terrorists who carried military personnel in Ankara Merasim Street on February 17, 2016 were found to have been trained in the TYD-YPG camps in the court ruling on the attack on which 29 of our citizens were killed. Again, the Supreme Court of Appeals on a terrorist captured north of Syria 16. According to the decision issued by the Criminal Office, the PKK has been identified as a terrorist organization with the Syrian arm of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), Ankara Merasim Street and Güvenpark has been identified as being carried out by the Istanbul Beşiktaş attack. In addition, during Operation Peace Fountain, terrorist organizations attacked our civilian citizens with mortar bullets, 20 of our citizens were killed, 187 of our citizens were injured. Self-defense, on the other hand, is not just a right to an armed assault. If you are facing a major, close and predictable threat, you have the right to take preventive self-defense measures to eliminate this threat. We are facing a terrorist organization just across our border, and the threat of this organization to Turkey has increased every day. There was a generation of terror that had almost reached the final stage of our border, with the Firat Shield and Operation Olive Branch, we struck this generation with a blow, but the threat to the east of Fırat continues. It is a major, close and predictable threat to Turkey, tens of thousands of terrorist groups armed by the United States just beyond our borders. Four decisions from the United Nations Security Council for the legitimacy of international law stand out. Decisions 2170 in 2014 and 2178 in 2015, 2249 in 2015 and 2254 are available. For example, Resolution 2170 says that terrorism of all sorts is one of the most important threats to international peace and security, and that every kind of terrorist act is a crime, regardless of when and who it is carried out, and is not justified. Decision 2178 highlights the need to address the conditions leading to the spread of terrorism. The fight against DEAŞ was adopted under international law and the United Nations, under the emphasis of Resolution 2249 and DEASH (Deash) as a threat to international peace and security. All of Turkey's arguments as it begins this operation are in complete harmony with the international law resolutions and rules that I have stated. It's not like any country in the world can say that this action is illegal, that it's illegal. In short, this action is completely justified and legitimate in the context of international law. Dear lawmakers, as far as possible outcomes are concerned, this is one of the most important days in the history of the region. The entire Middle East, especially Syria and Iraq, will be affected by today's talks and developments, not just Turkey's action in the fight against terrorism. On the one hand, the end of a hundred and twenty-hour agreement with the United States, on the other hand, the meeting with the President of Russia in Sochi. Therefore, it is our hope that the voice will rise from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with Turkey's national policies, the fight against terrorism, border security, the territorial integrity and stability of neighbouring countries. In this new era, Turkey is the co-founder of this process, both in the field and at the table. The two important outcomes that could arise today could deeply affect regional and international developments. The first is not only 120km between the Prophet and Tel Abyad, but the 444km under YPG control must be wiped out of terrorism; the second is the determination to fight all terrorist organizations regardless of their name, west, south, north, to build the territorial integrity of Syria, regional security and stability. One of the major developments today was the agreement reached with the United States. According to this, terrorism in northern Syria was intended to leave the area within a hundred and twenty hours and to establish security in the region. We considered this agreement to be valuable as Turkey, in order for this right and legitimate purpose to take place. This agreement proves that Turkey has maintained its integrity and respectability to international law, the United Nations Convention, and, more importantly, the conscience of humanity. Today, at 10:00 p.m., a hundred and twenty hours are up. Once again, I would like to point out that Operation Fountain of Peace has two important goals: first, to break the terror corridor to the north of Syria, to build a safe area for Turkey, and second, to fight terrorist organizations that threaten not only our country but Syria's territorial integrity as well. In a hundred and twenty hours of agreement with the United States, the YPG will be transferred 32km south outside the secure zone, but it will continue to threaten the integrity of Syria. Fighting against Syria's threat of territorial integrity is the responsibility not only of Turkey but of the entire international community. Today, countries, especially the United States, Russia and Iran, who have even earned the right to say a couple of words about Syria, have to take attitudes to destroy Syrian territorial integrity and terrorist organisations. The first step is to destroy terrorist organizations, the biggest threat. Turkey must see and support its cross-border operations in this framework. If the forces in Syria had fought against them instead of using terrorist organizations, there would have been no Firat Shield or Operation Olive Branch, nor would there have been any need for Operation Fountain of Peace. So, as the National Movement Party, we are deeply celebrating our determination to fight terrorism, our country's righteous stand, our legitimate position, our President and Government, who repeatedly cried out to the world. It's 22 o'clock tonight. If the region is not fully cleared of terror, our will, which is consolidated with international legitimacy, will be reflected in the field. We will be vigilant against all things; the water will sleep, and the enemy will not sleep. Dear MPs, Turkey is one of the countries that contributes the most to international peace and security. However, it has also organised cross-border operations for its own security and the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries, and it continues to organise. In Korea, in Kosovo, in Somalia, in Lebanon, in Liberia, in Haiti, what we do, it is also in the River Shield, the Olive branch, the Fountain of Peace. The main thing is to fight terrorism without looking at the letters of its name; peace, peace and security in geography is the facility and protection of security. We, the National Movement Party, have supported and continue to support all of Turkey's activities. On this occasion, we wish all our martyrs mercy, urgent healings for our wounded veterans, and a greater success to our heroic soldiers. I'll also announce that we'll vote positively for the thesis we're interviewing, and I'll salute your grand delegation once again.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0125par0100	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I give you my word that Mr. Ahmet Ünal Avviküçüşçü is a member of İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Quickie.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0126par0103	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the extension of UNIFIL's mandate in Lebanon on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 2485. I hereby salute our High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out our views on the thesis after we've touched on the main topic of our agenda. We have reached the final hours of the period between the United States and Turkey, which was agreed on October 17th and should be completed as of today. There are some public reports that President Erdoğan has been interviewing US President Donald Trump to avoid lawsuits against Halkbank, who has appointed Justice Minister William Barr and Treasury Minister Steven Mnuchin. However, this initiative failed, while Halkın lobbying company Ballard Partners paid 780,000 dollars to lobby on his behalf between November 2018 and March 2019. The State's Attorney's Office of the South District of New York, following the start of Operation Peace Fountain, has filed an indictment claiming that Halkbank helped him break sanctions against Iran. The indictment raises six charges, including money laundering and fraud. In a simultaneous manner, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his family's assets were threatened, and then I would not speak to anyone other than Trump. He spoke to Mr. Erdoğan Trump's assistant for an hour and ten minutes. The meeting period for the inter-agency talks was four-and-a-half hours. International news agencies also said that during these talks, the YPG was in contact with the United States. A phone and room were even assigned to US authorities for these talks. So what does that mean? It means there's been a telephone connection between the Presidential Chamber and the YPG, called the terrorist group. Dear MPs, Syrian policy continues to sink us. Like domestic policy and foreign policy founded on the interests of a single party, our national security is now being self-centered. What did we say? We said on October 17th, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the United States and Turkey regarding the situation in Syria, and it was established over a period of understanding. We have a 13-point memorandum of understanding. When we look at him, it's clear that there's been some progress. For example, it seems that a promise was made regarding the YPG's exit from the region, but how deep will it be drawn, drawn into what region? It's not clear because it's not in the document. The width described earlier about this region is not shown in any way by the kilometre. Article 5 of the Covenant states that Turkey and the United States are determined to continue fighting ISIS in the northeast of Syria. This includes the co-ordination of individuals living in former ISIS-controlled areas and detention centers to be carried out in a proper manner in the matter. These detention centers are the means, valued MPs, the prisons in which ISIS militants are held. When Turkish Armed Forces arrived at a prison in the area they were in control of, the Defence Minister said they detected that the prison had been empty. What kind of co-ordinate is this? 700-800 ISIS militants are reported to have escaped. It's a question of who to coordinate with to catch them. Because the Turkish Armed Forces are north of the M4 Highway, and the United States troops are south of the United States. Many of the prisons where ISIS militants are held are said to be more than 20 miles [32 km] from the borders of Turkey. How is this going to work? It comes to mind that Turkey is embarrassed and constantly criticised for its failure to fulfill its obligations in Idlib. It will be remembered that Turkey was going to move terrorist organizations in Idlib, but it couldn't, it was going to get the heavy weapons out of the area, but it couldn't. So, now, how is he going to do what he couldn't do in Idlib in northeast Syria? By being a prison guard for ISIS militants? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we must not make promises we cannot fulfill, because if you make such promises and fail, you will be embarrassed. When we look at the situation in the field, we haven't been this close and so close to the Syrian administration in a while. The presence of the Turkish Armed Forces in Tel Abyad and Eluayn puts the presence of the Syrian government in Menbic, Kobani and Kamishlı to suggest that we are now very close to dealing with each other in this region. When we shared a document of the People's Party of the Republic's Syrian Policy on October 7th, we told you that we felt it was necessary for the government to send a delegation to Syria as soon as possible, for this delegation to make preliminary talks, and for Syria to send an official and more effective delegation if they were given a sign that these contacts would be permanent. Turkey must act on its rights stemming from the Adana Covenant and ask the Syrian administration to ensure the security of the Turkish-Syrian border and to eliminate Turkey's security threat perceptions. Until now, the government of Syria has not always been able to control it because it is not in that area, it is not in control of its territory. It was being challenged and said that such an opportunity would not be possible. Now, the Syrian army has moved to the east of Fırat. Now that this opportunity has come to light, the first priority in dialogue and negotiations with Syria is to ensure the two countries' joint fight against terrorism, while the fight against terrorism is to ask Turkey to be guaranteed by Syria to eliminate threat perceptions in Syria, and to discuss the future of about 4 million Syrians, who are temporarily protected in Turkey. These are important because we have this vision, and we say that we want these people to return to their own country when conditions improve. We forget that this return must be voluntary in terms of international law. In order to maintain such a voluntary basis, the Syrian government must guarantee it. All of this requires direct contact with Syria. Everyone knows it's necessary, and our choice is to make it happen with a sovereign decision, not Russia. Dear MPs, Turkey is lonely. There have been attempts in the past to describe it as worthwhile loneliness. Alone in the international environment is not a valuable thing. Starting at the end of 2008, Turkey has taken very serious wrong steps in foreign policy and has made very serious mistakes. As a result of these mistakes, Turkey is severely alone in the eyes of its allies and in the eyes of countries in the region. Solitude means isolation. Like Turkey, no one has the right to isolate the country from the international community. This loneliness is not an acceptable situation to defend in any way. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned principles two days ago. I'd like to think about this first concept. For example, not taking sides in foreign policy is a principle, a very important principle. It was also a principle in the foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey, especially when it comes to the Middle East, especially when it comes to problems between countries in this region. But this principle of not taking sides is no longer one of the principles that sheds light on our foreign policy. We're dealing with a foreign policy that takes sides at every turn, discriminates between sides, and therefore loses the capacity and ability to make solutions. Taking sides in foreign policy is a lack of principle. For example, it is an important foreign policy not to interfere in the internal affairs of the neighbors. While Syria has a government, it is not in line with good neighbourly relations and principle to call a group called the disorganized group of the Syrian National Army, which has been gathered around while there is an army of this administration. Incompatible with good neighbourly conduct is incompatible with the principle of not interfering with internal affairs, which is a separate principle. For example, the immunity of borders is another set of principles. The actions that appear to support these principles and violate them in essence are another example of lack of principle. Here are the valued lawmakers, those who reflect these unprinciples on foreign policy have no right to speak to the Republican People's Party about principles. Turkey has adopted a foreign policy in the Middle East, which is not an impartial country, and is taking sides in a certain ideological view of the region to eliminate countries in its own solution to its problems, creating order and total chaos and disorder. This left Turkey today in a very serious way alone in the world. In the Middle East, leaves do not move without our knowledge. It is our final idea of foreign policy, which has collapsed, which is that those who are sunk in Syria with Neosmanism will criticize us. I'd like to repeat our warnings about the so-called Syrian national army, which cannot be understood as to where it is national. There are a number of members in the field that the Turkish Armed Forces cannot control, and many of the news against Turkey today are the actions of these groups. The ruling must take the necessary precaution against the failure of these groups to compare it to Kuvaimilliya (Kovaimliya) and facing an accusation against our country, such as a violation of international law. We'd like to ask here if the United States has any assurances to keep these groups out of the area as Turkey enters the safe zone. Dear MPs, UNIFIL is a peacekeeping mission under the 6th part of the United Nations Condition. He can use force under his duties. On August 29, 2019, UN Security Council Resolution 2485 and UNIFIL have been extended to 31 August 2020. It is important that the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2485 points out a violation of the stopping of hostility, signaling that a new conflict cannot be overcome by the region. In the same decision, statements calling on the government of Lebanon to reduce the burden of the UNIFIL Naval Task Force should also be noted. Why should it be graded importantly? Because Turkey has been contributing to UNIFIL Naval Task Force since 2006. So Decision 2485 now proposes that Turkey's contribution be taken by Lebanon. At 55 points, UNIFIL, based in the city of Nakura, serves south of Lebanon and is supported by a marine force that extends along the banks of Lebanon. UNIFIL, the UN Interim Task Force in Lebanon, was originally established in 1978 to help the Israeli forces withdraw from Lebanon and secure the Israeli-Lubnan border under the United Nations Security Council's decisions 425 and 426, and to help the Lebanese state authority rule south of Lebanon. Now I ask you: why is Turkey not contributing to strengthening the Lebanese fleet rather than joining UNIFIL? Dear lawmakers, at the point where we're here today, we have to say that UNIFIL (UNIFIL) is partially successful in plaguing conflicts between Israel and Hezbollah, and that tension in the region is still very high and the course is fragile. If we are to send our troops to Lebanon to contribute to the United Nations mission, we need to keep in mind the following issues. 1) Under today's conditions, it is unrealistic to expect that there is no armed force in southern Lebanon except the Lebanon army. 2) According to UN reports and UN security decisions, violations are continuing around the blue line. 3) According to U.N. reports, Israel's invasion of the village of Ghajar, where the blue line has been cut apart continues. 4) The tension between Hezbollah and Israel continues. Finally, Hezbollah forces destroyed a military vehicle of Israel on September 1, 2019. 5) The people of Lebanon have been on the streets for days to protest corruption, corruption, and the cost of life. The biggest demonstrations in the country's history are taking place, and for the first time, people are protesting the government by going beyond ethnic, religious and religious differences. Therefore, Lebanon's domestic politics is going through a fragile period. However, we must give warning to the authority seeking the authority to send troops to the United Nations mission in Lebanon: Do not even think about applying the religious perspective, which is the dominant tone of your policy towards the Middle East, especially Syria. Do not interfere with the internal affairs of Lebanon. Take care to keep an equal distance from all those in Lebanon. Keep emphasising that the presence of our soldiers in Lebanon is in the interests of all the people of Lebanon, and that our only goal is to maintain the peace and stability of Lebanon. So basically, follow a rudimentary Lebanese policy. At least start the principled foreign policy from Lebanon. UNIFIL takes on an important task, considering the security conditions in the region. Given our bilateral relations with Lebanon, the provision must be extended according to Article 92 of the Constitution. We believe Turkey has taken an important role in carrying out an active peacekeeping operation with its contributions to UNIFIL. We are concerned that Turkey's appearance within the United Nations system will be increased in all parts of Lebanon through regional and global civil-military cooperation activities, as well as through comprehensive civil-military cooperation activities. We believe our contribution to UNIFIL is needed to continue in order to serve the continuation of policies aimed at peace and maintaining stability. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 2485 on the extension of UNIFIL (United Nations Security Council)'s mandate, the extension of Turkey's support for the UN Temporary Task Force in Lebanon with the elements of Turkish Armed Forces will be a positive development in this framework. However, I would also like to point out that Decision 2485 extends UNIFIL's mandate until August 31st 2020, which means that UNIFIL's mission may end before the deadline of our thesis expires. We said, "Let not the presence of our soldiers in Lebanon, when the government is so eager to send troops abroad, then suddenly face unlawfulness." Because respect for international law is also an important foreign policy. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0127par0132	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I pledge to Mr. Fikri Illum. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0128par0135	Mr. President, under the UN Security Council's decision 2485 to extend the mandate of UNIFIL (United Nations Security Council), I have made a pledge on behalf of the Committee of the United Nations Security Council, which has asked the Grand National Assembly for authority from the President to determine the number of Turkish Armed Forces elements number 1701 and on behalf of principles determined by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Resolution 880, starting on October 31, 2019. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have established and continued relative calm on the Lebanese-Israeli border because of the presence of the Lebanese Interim Task Force, which was created in Lebanon for the purpose and maintenance of peace in Lebanon after the 2006 Israeli-Lubnan war. The mandate of UNIFIL, established on 11 August 2006 by the United Nations Security Council, was temporarily set for a year, and was envisioned for an extension every year if necessary. UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate has been extended 12 times so far. At that time, our country made intense diplomatic efforts to end the 34-day Israeli-Lubnan war, which was a risk of spreading to a large region. A ceasefire was held on August 14, 2016, three days after the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1701. Our country, which attributed great importance to regional peace and stability, quickly expressed its will to contribute to UNIFIL, in which it was approved by the decision of our great Parliament on September 5th, 2006, when Turkish Armed Forces authorized its elements to participate in UNIFIL. Following this decision, elements of the Turkish Armed Forces were deployed in the region from October 2006 to begin their duties. UNIFIL's mandates have been renewed as UNIFIL continues. In this regard, the deadline for last year's sanctions of our great House will expire on October 31, 2019. On the other hand, UN Security Council's mandate was extended until August 31, 2020, last August. Of course, considering the possibility of a new extension, a one-year mandate has been requested, considering the state of our House on vacation. We don't mind giving you a year's authority. Developments in our region show that our country's stability and security will not be considered separate from the countries of the region. It is absolutely unthinkable for us to remain indifferent to regional issues that concern our national interests closely. Although Lebanon is geographically small, it is a key country in terms of regional stability. The delicate balance between the political and social structure, religious and ethnic communities is very, very important in Lebanon, where the dissolutions in the Middle East manifest in the small model. This balance is constantly tested by the reflection of the conflict in the neighbouring country of Syria in Lebanon. The periodary tensions between the religious and ethnic groups in Lebanon continue to be a source of concern. At such a time, the protection of social harmony in Lebanon has become more important than ever. In this regard, all contact with Lebanon emphasizes that it is vital that this country stick to its policy that it should not be a part of the Syrian conflict. Let us also express that we are not involved in the internal politics of Lebanon in any way as Turkey. The intense pressure of Syrian refugees, created by millions of Syrian refugees who had been forced to flee from the conflict to the neighbouring countries, has left Lebanon alone with serious social trials. Today, Lebanon has an estimated 6 million inhabitants, home to about 1.5 million Syrian and Palestinian refugees. In this context, the refugee issue stands before us as one of the most fundamental issues of instability before Lebanon. On the other hand, the unstable environment in Iraq and Syria, the developments in Yemen and Libya, and the religious tensions that have been affected in the regional plan, may have negative repercussions for the peace, peace and stability of Lebanon, based on far more sensitive balances than the other countries in the region. Of course, if these effects cannot be kept to a minimum, there will be serious risks and threats to peace and stability on a regional and global level, especially in the neighbouring countries of a sect based domestic conflict that can be experienced in the country, and there will be deep damage to compensate for. At this point it is important to support and strengthen the Lebanon Armed Forces in the context of the Syrian-based security threat and the risk of regional conflict. In addition to support under UNIFIL, our country has shared its proposals with the Lebanese side about the possible steps to strengthen the Lebanon Armed Forces, particularly education and cooperation in the coming period. It is the establishment of a Lebanese model regiment to be appointed under UNIFIL and to be deployed with Israel in the border area. On March 15, 2018, under the protection of the United Nations, our commitments to support the model regiment were declared at the Rome II Conference on the support of the Lebanon Armed Forces. We welcome the continuation of bilateral co-ordination between the two countries. In addition to deep historical ties and bilateral relations with Lebanon, we as Turkey have been closely monitoring developments in Lebanon. The protection of peace and quiet in Lebanon remains a key priority for all of us in the current conjunctural. The last Lebanon general elections, held in 2009, were held on May 6, 2018, under the new election constitution adopted as a result of long debates, and the government was formed on January 31, 2019, about eight months after the election. Under the importance of the stability and prosperity of Lebanon, the concrete contribution we have provided as Turkey to ensure peace and stability in this country has a positive effect on every aspect of our bilateral relations. The superior performance of our troops in UNIFIL is well received by the people of Lebanon as well as by other participating countries. At this point, the fact that the history of our Turkish Armed Forces has actually demonstrated human services in its destination, human activity in Lebanon, is what makes all of us proud as a member of this nation, it's what makes us proud, it's what makes us proud. As a matter of fact, since 2006, when we were contributing to UNIFIL, many important projects carried out by the Turkish Armed Forces have been in the memory of the Lebanese people. Among them is the supply of electricity for village schools, for village schools, for playing fields, for villages, for health clinics, for water storage, for construction of roads. In 2006-2013, UNIFIL had been part of a construction company and naval force. Since 2013, two headquarters have been participating with our personnel and marine elements. In this context, our Turkish Armed Forces operates a control operation within the Naval Task Force, with approximately 85 personnel and 1 corvet for tasks in the sea, along with the two staff already at the headquarters of the Nakura. Our contribution to UNIFIL with our marine elements is really important in terms of the crisis in Syria and the security environment in the eastern Mediterranean. This contribution is an important component in the active execution of the UNIFIL Movement for Peacekeeping. Without a doubt, this mission by the Turkish Armed Forces is an important building block of our policies for the preservation of peace and stability in our region. We, the EC PARTY Group, maintain our view that it would be appropriate to continue our contribution to the UNFIL, which served in Lebanon for the purposes envisioned by the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, which represents international legitimacy and the common will of the international community. My dear friends, I say once again that today's thesis is very important for the stability of Lebanon, which is indeed one of the most key countries in the region in Turkey, when instability is so concentrated in our region. See, there are now power of attorney wars in the region. Some forces, even if they are not directly in the field, are using terrorist organizations to stage a power of attorney war. It is Turkey's duty to be careful of them, to maintain global peace, as one of the most important, powerful countries in the region. At this point, our Parliament has made this will clear since 2006. At this point, we have a debt of gratitude to all our supporting parties, to our MPs. Dear friends, the wars we call the civil war are unfortunately being fought today through terrorist organizations. At this point, it's not a primitive security policy, I'm afraid. Especially in what we call powerful countries around the world, your terrorist organization, my terrorist organization, is clearly expressing the distinction -- even if they don't express it verbally -- in writing, or in fact -- in fact -- in fact. In other words, is there a single intelligence organization in the world that doesn't know that the PKK is controlling the YPG, or is there, in other words, an intelligence organization that doesn't know the truth, particularly the CIA, or the KGB? Everyone knows very well that YPG is the Syrian branch of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), taking orders directly from the so-called top executives of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Organic ties are no longer hidden, but to present the terrorist organization as freedom fighters is actually the clearest sign in the world that the countries in question are not sincere about terrorism today. At this point, perhaps we should stress in particular: Dear friends, one of the most primitive positions in the world is Turkey. Turkey has not and has not discriminated between any terrorist organization, and Turkey has not met or spoken to any terrorist organization. Sir, the secret room in the palace has been set up, and the YPG has been contacted. Their claims are completely unrealistic, grave claims. There was talks with the delegation from the United States of America. They, of course, held talks with the United States, according to the departure of negotiations. We have no way of knowing where this was done. The President of the United States may have been interviewed, and others may have been, but Turkey is dealing with the United States of America. At this point, the deadline for this evening is critical when the United States fulfils its commitments. We've started this operation where we believe that it's true, that we're 100 percent sure that it's true, that we're not going to allow terrorism to become a state in our region. He didn't give in to any threats either, Turkey. Under the leadership of our President, the Operation Peace Fountain, in particular, began despite any threat to prevent it. Now, at this point, we will continue to walk decisively until this threat is eliminated, but while we are doing this, it is not right to give Turkey unfair criticism, dear friends. So far, Turkey has never separated the DEAS from the PKK, nor has it separated the PID-YPG from the DEAŞ. I know very well as Minister of National Defense during the Battle of the Battle of the Firat Shield, that I am involved in the events of which Turkey is the most powerful operation against the DEAŞ in the world. Turkey has neutralized over 3,000 DEAC militants. In the same way, Turkey is the one who has been fighting the PKK for more than 40 years, fighting day and night to eliminate the PKK's terrorist organization. OK, but don't touch the YPG. It's not an honest understanding, it's not a primitive understanding. The terrorist organization is a terrorist organization. Your terrorist organization, my terrorist organization, is totally unacceptable. At this point, Turkey has thus far maintained its primitive stance. Turkey will then retain its primitive stance. Turkey's top priority is its own safety, the safety of the region. Without the peace and security of the region, neither Turks nor Kurds nor Arabs nor other elements can live in peace in this region. At this point, the Turkish nation's support for Turkey's action is, in fact, a good indication of how Turkey has come together to put aside any discussion on national issues. My dear friends, this is an excellent argument. We hope there will be peace, peace in our region, and the conflicts and wars in our region will end. Hopefully, Israel will give up this aggressive attitude, withdraw to its borders -- bordered by the 1967 agreement -- and the risk of attacking a country like Lebanon will be eliminated, peace in the region, and we will never have to send our armed forces to Lebanon again. But today, all our party groups have specifically expressed that you need it. Therefore, we, the AK PARTY Group, will vote in favor of this thesis. I now wish our thesis to be good for our Armed Forces, for our country, for Lebanon, and for the entire region, for global peace, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0129par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0130par0159	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0129par0162	Mr. President, thank you. Now, Mr. Minister -- he must have needed -- turning around -- the Republic of Turkey never sits down with terrorists, deals with terrorists, ceasefires, doesn't give in to threats, he says.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0131par0164	Your secretary just told me.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0129par0165	Now, let me put it this way. Mr. Minister answers from a need, the whole world, Turkey talks about how the Republic of Turkey behaves, and they will go as they came from Ataturk, which is the way they came. It is true that Ismet Inönü was referring to his response to Johnson's letter, as well as his attitude in Lauzan and the determination to start and continue the Cypriot Peacekeeping Movement.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0132par0166	For God's sake!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0129par0167	But when he crashed the Russian plane, you raced with the Prime Minister of the Age, and I brought him down... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... then, sir, he dropped it, don't make so many sanctions........ and then we have images of him sitting together today, where he was implied that there was no leakage, sir, that you had smuggled Kurdish oil. You financed ISIS with part of it. We're presenting this at the United Nations Security Council. An apology letter to Russia. There will be support, attitude, public support for the operation here; a thousand threats, a thousand embarrassing letters to be lied down, to be silenced, but then, sir, we will investigate the wealth of your family all over the world. When you say, "He can't meet me," the Pence will come. In fact, the vice president of the United States can't see me, so I'll deal with Trump. You'll say, "I'll talk to Trump. " You'll challenge him here and you'll be spitting here in an hour, in this House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President. If Trump comes here, he'll see me, they'll sit with him. You'll say, "Fahrettin Altun will collect a new explanation." Sir, I'm meeting with the vice president tomorrow. No President of the Republic of Turkey has ever sat in a position as a partner with another country's vice president, nor has he ever sat with any vice president. It is true that the Republic of Turkey has not given in, has not given up on threats. Those who write an apology letter to Russia when their own family is brought up have no right to remain silent in the face of what they have ordered, and those who do not respond to this letter have no right to say such things.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0133par0176	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0134par0178	Mr. President, the high-profile MPs -- no word the CHP Group Deputy has just said -- do not reflect the truth, it's all slander and lies from top to bottom. (CHP rows) What is true is that the state of the Republic of Turkey, yes, has always done and will do it to protect the reputation of the Turkish nation; there is no hesitation in that. Mr. President, with his true leadership, he crowns the victories and gives them to the Turkish nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, I would like to say that the words of the Inönul, yes, after Johnson's letter, we may not have been able to act on Cyprus, but then in 1974... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... During the late Erbakan-Ecevit administration, the necessary Operation Peace was carried out, and from 1699 Karlofça Agreement to today, the Peace Operation was successfully carried out to the first time in our Republic of the Republic of Northern Cyprus to the establishment of the Turkish Republic.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0135par0184	Yeah, what does that say? He's ignoring the Salvation War!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0134par0185	I remember all our statesmen who have passed on by with mercy, respect, gratitude.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0136par0186	What about the Salvation War?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0134par0187	Second: From 1699 Karlofça Agreement to today, July 15th, just after the international coup and occupation attempt...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0137par0188	What about the Salvation War? What about the Battle of Çanakkale?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0136par0189	Mr. Muhammad, you'd better tell me about the Battle of Salvation.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0134par0190	...Yes, El Bab, El Azez, Cerablus and Afrin led by our second major commander Recep Tayyip Erdogan! [AK PARTY'S "Bravo" plays, applause; "Bravo" plays, applause, "Bravo" cheers" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" cheers" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" cheers" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" plays, "Bravo" [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up. Yes, he's noted these facts in history, but he's just been asked by CHP's valued diplomat, Vice President of the Republic, Mr. Ünal Avikçü, at the request of the U.S.A.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0138par0194	Translate the letter.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0134par0195	...about the 13-point agreement they signed, on live television, he said: "All the desired elements seem to have been acquired, our gains are strong." Turkey got what it wanted. (Applause from the ranks of the GOOD PARTY!)
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0139par0196	You're not right when you yell too much.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0134par0197	Yes, as a result, when these truths are in the open and the new world of the Inönü, Turkey takes its place here. The state of Turkey, led by Mr. Erdoğan, is now under the leadership of our President! [PLAYING]
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0140par0198	Long live the padishah (!) Long live the padishah
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0134par0200	So there's something we should all brag about... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And finally... I'm putting it together, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0141par0203	Did you give it to the Americans in the ashtray?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0142par0204	President, turn on the mike, I can't hear, he's making an important point.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0143par0205	I think you've achieved your goal.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0144par0206	I'm putting it together for the last time, yes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0143par0207	Well...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0145par0208	We're witnessing a historic conversation.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0146par0209	Answer him if the Americans are running Syria.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0145par0210	Mr. President, we'd like to witness this historic conversation, please turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0147par0211	As a result, as a Turkish nation, I call black propaganda and slanders to defame a matter we should indeed boast about as the state of the Republic of Turkey's Republic of Turkey a desecration of the House. And as for Trump's letter, yes, Trump sent a letter, but it wasn't returned like Johnson's letter, which was well wrapped up and thrown into history's wastebasket, a great victory was achieved in the field. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE!] I especially ask that this be known to all, and I salute the assembly. [Applause from the lines of the AK PARTY, from the good PARTY, the voices, the applause!]
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0148par0214	Long live the padishah.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0149par0216	Muhammad Pasha, thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0150par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0151par0219	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0150par0221	Mr. President, may Allah not force any political party group to debate the context and applaud the hammock.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0152par0223	Not at all, not at all!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0150par0224	Mr. President, in order for Trump's letter to be torn and thrown out... all those of the tradition of diplomacy know that it should have been sent to the United States of America by you -- that letter which you have insulted and ignored -- that letter was not accepted and returned. (Applause from CHP rows) To take the letter and put it in the state's archives, to turn the White House into blackmail, to turn it into a blackmail device, to rule the Republic of Turkey, and no statesman has ever made the head of state. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, he spoke for seven minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0153par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0150par0228	We agree with one thing: the person who considers the vice president of the United States equal to him and sits next to him is not the President of the Republic of Turkey, but at least the President of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0154par0230	That's never been a eunuch, is it?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0150par0231	We, the People's Party of the Republic, feel ashamed only for you, as the People's Party of the Republic, to add three words to its end, as a salvation to the lack, lack of insight, and surrender of our party's non-compromising statement on live air. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0155par0234	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0156par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0157par0236	Wait a minute... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in my opinion, our Deputy Directors of the Group have expressed their opinion, they have expressed what they want to say. Mr. Akbasoglu, you've told me quite well too, Mr. Ozgur.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0156par0238	I'd like to give you a sentence, a brief answer.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0157par0239	Let's not give a polemic a chance. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0156par0242	I would like to share this information: Mr. President has already stated that he will not meet with them about a delegation from Pence, about a television journalist asking him questions, and on the same day, Mr. Fahrettin Altun, who will not be able to meet those people, and the next day -- tomorrow -- he has already expressed the planning to meet Pence. For one thing, it's the ones who distort it, who don't get the right information. Please repeat this information: one.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0158par0243	I'll be damned!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0156par0244	Second: Converting the facts from the top to the bottom, and indeed, I see Turkey's approach to ignoring its achievements as a reflection of these unnecessary polemics between the attitude in its head and the attitude in the end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So if you remember, we started today by expressing our thanks to all the parties that supported this movement.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0158par0247	Pity, don't wear yourself out
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0156par0249	But other areas, bringing up other things that aren't true, unfortunately, make it necessary to respond to such polemics. Thank you. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE!]
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0159par0251	Long live the padishah
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0160par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0161par0254	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0160par0255	Mr. President, with this side of the discussion...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0161par0256	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0160par0257	No, no, no. I'm standing in a manner, because the reports on this side of the discussion are being offered in front of our nation and now, as you feel in your facial expression, to a meeting. Everyone also saw the clarity of the matter. We've all heard the last speech by an opposition party, who now congratulated him with what intention, whose applause is known to all of us, but who has no support from his own group.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0162par0259	This isn't a eunuch, is it, Mr. Free?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0160par0260	However, Article 69 of the Civil Charter is based on the right to explain. He has the right to express himself from the stand to correct his words that have been distorted or taken into another understanding. Mr. Ünal Riotist -- as it turns out -- wishes to exercise this right on behalf of the Republican People's Party and on behalf of its own.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0163par0261	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You have two minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0164par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. On the evening of October 17th, I heard personally that I was on a live air in Haberturk, and that the agreement between the United States and Turkey at that time was announced at a press conference by both Vice President Pence and Foreign Minister Mr. Sergeant, and that some of its elements were listed and accounted for. This is exactly what I said in that program: "It seems that what we want is being achieved. Our earnings are strong. The following sentences are added by a pool media in a situation where there is no press freedom in Turkey. That's not what I said. The last three words you said are not mine. However, what the Justice and Development Party would like to make a success out of it, is it really a joy to me, or a cause of sadness, and I leave it to your appreciation. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0165par0270	Mr. President, I'd like to make this statement to make it into the transcripts.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0166par0271	Mr. President, let me tell you something, especially the Deputy Directors of the Group are in position to represent the presidents of their political parties. So I'm carefully communicating with our Deputy Group Presidents. In that regard, you made your point quite well, as did the congressman. I wonder what you're going to say now.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0165par0273	I don't want to make any additional...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0166par0274	That's what you said, Mr. Akbasoglu, you said he was in 13 articles.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0165par0275	Okay. ▪ All the desired elements seem to have been achieved, our gains are strong. Turkey got what it wanted. I referred to it as a statement, which I have no other adjective. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0167par0279	Mr. President, since we've gone to the report, let's write this down: At the end of all this discussion, I'd like to know what you're going to say by insisting on saying the last thing you're going to say. I'd like to know how he's going to go back to asking me why someone in that famous story wanted to be a lawyer, and I'd like to know how he's going to defend me.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0165par0281	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0168par0285	Now, on behalf of the person, I promise Mr. Onursal Adıl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0169par0288	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I wish God's mercy to our martyrs and to our civilian citizens who have lost their lives under Operation Peace Fountain, and to our wounded, our veterans, our immediate healings, our families, and our entire nation. In addition, I find it unacceptable for elected mayors to be detained by dawn operations. The mayors of millions of voters who have been nominated with the approval of the election boards are suspended by appointments, trustees. As the Justice and Development Party, at every opportunity, you would speak from this bench through the ark, through the will of the nation, where you are today, you are doing this: you have abandoned the will of the nation. But remember, we will continue to retain the will and democracy of the nation at every turn. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, when we say economy, health, education, unfortunately our country is also in a decline in foreign policy, and the practices of the Justice and Development Party in foreign policy have disgraced our country in the international arena. The world is greater than five. Those who say, "The world is greater than the five. " They have become unable to find five allies in the world today with their unstable policies, with their rhetorics, with their actions. We see that in foreign policy, the AKP also puts the politics aside and entrusts foreign policy to non-employees. Dear lawmakers, as in all boards, there is neither integrity nor stability left in foreign policy and other points. Every time we say it, we say: Foreign policy requires a man of state, foreign policy requires stability. So, what does the Justice and Development Party do, what does it do in 17 years? When we look at your 17 years of foreign policy activities, the only thing that's not there is stability. You said: "We pray in Syria at Emevi Mosque. You have concluded that at this point you have kidnapped the Shah Temple of Solomon. You turned around and said: "If we wanted, we would destroy Syria in a few hours. We never agreed to it, and we did not accept it. So what happened? With the letter of the President of the United States, you also concluded your action with a letter targeting the Republic of Turkey. We can see that the Trump love of the court is at its highest level.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0170par0294	If the letter of America is arrogant, your testimony is heavier than that, arrogant.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0169par0295	He says, Mr. President for the Vice President of the United States, that he is not my subject. Tell us if he didn't, and we'll find out. I'd like to ask you again the questions our president asked in the group today. Why didn't you return this letter with insulting statements? How do you like these expressions? In what fear, anxiety, and mood did you accept this letter? That wasn't enough. Why did you hide it from the public? You won't answer, but I'll tell you. You've got so many gaps, you've trapped Syria's policy in the lines of Trump, which you can't describe. Dear lawmakers, weak foreign policy, blind domestic policy has made the country uninhabitable in both the economy and many other issues. And who's paying for this bill? Poor citizens in this country pay and their children pay. Invented memberships, titles, salary after salary; fellow children are promoted at jet speed, position, position, position, and position without a single hour in their assigned positions. So, what are these people's kids? They are left to poverty, unemployment, hunger. Shall I tell you about the daughter of the Chief Prosecutor, or should I tell you about the AKP MP who was an officer on the State Railway when I was working at the slaughterhouse on the agenda today? It hasn't been 40 days, and now he's the head of the apartment. Dear lawmakers, what do the figures of the TÜİKbook say -- we say we don't believe every chance we get? It says: Young unemployment has increased 7.2 per cent in Turkey. They say that no matter how hard you try to manipulate it, and they say it's 27.3 percent. Let me give you a more dramatic example. Do you know how many young people are employed in neither education nor education in Turkey? 29.3 percent of all three young people don't go to work, they don't go to work, they don't study, they don't get internship, they don't live their youth. Millions of college graduates are unemployed. These kids had these dreams that when I was going to college, I was going to study and support my parents. So, what happened where we came from? They were forced to pay off a student loan on their parents' pension. Look, guys, I'll tell you this: 17 years, no one gets to run a country. This has given you an opportunity, people. At this point, you've forgotten a lot of things. You know what you forgot? You forgot the teachers who killed themselves because they couldn't. You forgot about the workers who had to work construction because of unemployment or exports and were killed in business. You've forgotten that you've driven women to suicide by your policies to a place where they can warm their children with a hair dryer. However, there are many other issues, you have forgotten that you have caused this country's children to be wasted by the chaos you create and especially by the chaos you create. Is it their only crime to not be a member of the Archers Foundation? Is it the only crime of these children that a relative of yours does not live in the palace? I'd like to ask you this from here and say that today Turkey is talking about one person, Hüseyin Avni Commander. I don't know if you know him, but there are those who know him, who have joined the contract for the Hydarpaşa Station and who have also won this legal tender taken from the IBB. The main reason I'm talking about this here today is the Minister's attitude. Mr. Secretary, Hüseyin Avni took over the process as if he were the attorney for the company. Look, folks, I'm calling on your conscience again: a tender is being made. Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality and an unknown young person are participating in the tender. I just mentioned that young people in this country are unemployed, young people have a lot of problems, but a 33-year-old boy is taking part in this tender, whatever he's counting on. A job where two public institutions will go out without public harm, the Minister says: "This tender has been cancelled in accordance with the law." Well, when we look at it, what's their reason? There's no employment certificate. There is a certificate of completion, and more than 250 million TL of Culture alone. You've also ruled Culture Asş last semester, and now it's being run as a Republican People's Party municipality in the presidency of Ekrem Imamoğlu, and it doesn't have to be explicitly valid for all institutions in the tender file, it doesn't have to be valid for all consortium companies involved. You've brought this up on a fun commission decision, although it's been said. I want to put it specifically: Then you intended to cancel, because he was a customer and did not write in particular, or because he wrote in partnership and because he wrote together. He says, laughing -- really crows laugh -- that's what I'm watching: he gave 100,000 lira to the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality and the company across the street. I'm sorry, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality is a public institution, isn't it? Aren't these the corporations founded on public partnerships? In addition, in the closed bid tender, the clause was written very clearly, saying that after closing bids and envelopes were opened, there was a negotiation process. No one called the IBB (IB) in this tender on October 4th) to negotiate. However, if there's anything missing, the IBBs could have been banned from this tender before the envelopes were opened. Behind closed doors, without announcing it to the press, on October 18th, Hussain Avni Leader is called to this tender, and it's funny -- all our citizens watching me at the beginning of the screen will understand -- so make this 300 to 350 and we'll give it to you. You know what this is? If the minister is calling and saying this, this is what we see as the victims of our nation, 16 million Istanbulers, so that the Bilal boy can circle around at Sirkeci Garı, and Haydarpaşa Garı. 16 million Istanbulers are getting the rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have another minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0171par0306	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0169par0307	Mr. President, we Republican People's Party members don't give you the rights of 16 million Istanbulans. The people of Istanbul are not unclaimed. Stop this rematchist politics. The company you're tendering today will be sold to tomorrow, but the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor is determined by a race every semester and represents the people of Istanbul. Just because someone's friend, what's-his-name, who has no business experience, works for 3,000 liras at the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality three years ago, and then works as General Manager at the Archers Foundation, don't go after them. Do not take this issue with your ministers because we want the gates of this state in Turkey to be wide open to the youth of Turkey, where Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who is entrusted with the country, not only to the young people of the state, but to the millions of young people living in Turkey. We also want to end this alliance and the understanding of nepotism in Turkey.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0171par0309	Mr. Tanal, you said you had an alibi. Here, I promise you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0172par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. When a student throws a heavy, critical "tweet" at our President, the AK PARTI Group complains, criticizes the republic's prosecutor's office if need be, heavily goes after the students, but Trump, in his letter to Mr. President, insults both the President and insults the state of the Republic of Turkey, no one makes a sound when he insults the Republic of Turkey. I condemn your silent nature. As the Republican People's Party, we cannot tolerate the humiliation of our country, the humiliation of our government, the humiliation of our state. I filed a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office as Republican People's Party MP. Why don't you complain? I condemn you for your silence. Move in, don't be afraid. No imperialist power has the right to condemn or insult the state of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0173par0317	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0174par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, with their own fiction, we leave those who make shadow boxing in their own fantasy world to themselves.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0175par0321	Let's write a joint statement, a joint statement!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0174par0322	As a result, we rolled up the letter that had come to us and threw it in the garbage bin, and then we responded in the field with a nine-day operation; everyone had to come to our table. Please see this. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0176par0328	Now, on behalf of the person, I give my word to Mr. Iffet Polat, the Istanbul MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0177par0332	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the statement submitted to the approval of our Veterans Parliament that Turkey's contribution to the United Nations Temporary Task Force (UNIFIL) should be extended until 31 October 2020. I salute your high council. Mr. President, in our nation's tradition, we see the noble conduct of not only of its own family, but of its own safety, but of its neighbour, its relatives, and its friends. We see many examples of this in history. Our Turkish Armed Forces have always been on the side of the oppressed and the victim, from Korea to Cyprus, our glorious army. Turkey, who has always been with its friends and allies, has recently been with its people from Bosnia to Kosovo, Somalia to Afghanistan, and has always held out its hand of compassion and compassion. After the 2006 Israeli-Lubnan War, the United Nations formed the Lebanese Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) for the purpose and maintenance of peace in Lebanon. The security and stability of the Lebanese-Israeli border is still under way as a result of our country's successful missions, which have contributed to the force. The mandate of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) established on 11 August 2006 by the United Nations Security Council on 1701 is set as a temporary one-year term. In the same decision, it is also foreseen that the period should be extended every year if necessary. UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate has been extended 12 times so far. As a result of a recent UN Security Council decision, UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate has been extended by the end of August 2019. Mr. President, in our recent geography, the facility for peace and stability is one of the objectives of our primary foreign policy. All developments involving regional peace, stability and security have no doubt significant repercussions on our foreign policy. The recent developments in our region have once again revealed that our country's stability and well-being cannot be considered separate from the countries of the region. With that respect, we can't be expected to be indifferent to regional developments that concern our national interests and interests closely. With that understanding, our government's foreign policy aims to create a generation of peace, security, stability and prosperity around our country. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in an environment where the Syrian regime and terrorist organisations have increased the threat of blood violence and pressure policies towards the stability of the region, the key importance for the stability of the entire region has undoubtedly become more important in this delicate process in which peace and stability are moving through our region. Turkey has taken on an important role in effectively implementing the peacekeeping operation with its contributions to UNIFIL. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has made a significant contribution to increasing appearance in all parts of the Lebanese community and maintaining its policy to maintain peace and stability, both within the United Nations system and through regional and global co-operation activities. UNIFIL is the only United Nations peacekeeping operation our country contributes to the military force, and should be considered important to continue our contribution to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force. As always, Turkey will continue to stand in the face of any attempt aimed at the stability of Lebanon. In this regard, Turkey must continue its contributions to the unity of the fellow and brother Lebanese people and to the preservation of civil peace. In light of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and security conditions in the region, according to the UN Security Council's decision 2433/2018 on the extension of UNIFIL (the mandate of UNIFIL) in accordance with these issues, the Turkish Armed Forces, which should be determined by the President, stated that the final provisions of the Turkish Armed Forces will be seen by the President for another year, as part of the principles determined by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey (882), as well as the United Nations Security Council of Turkey shall continue to contribute to the UNIFIL for another year. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0178par0341	Congressmans, talks on the presidential statement have been completed. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Mumble, you wanted a word.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0179par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. As a result of the floods and landslides of heavy rain in the district of Eynesil, my constituency district of Giresun. One of our citizens has lost his life, some have suffered financial losses, and some have been closed to transport. I wish you well to the people of Eynesilli who have been harmed by the affinity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With the flood of Zıva Deresi, the Eynesil City of Eynesil has given great support to the work, with its vehicles and staff, to repair the damage caused by floods and landslide in the villages of Balcılı, Kösemen and Kebelli. I call upon the authorities to do damage assessments quickly and repair the damage caused by the disaster. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also ask that all Giresunians do not consider political discrimination in distribution of disaster relief.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0180par0351	Mr. Durmiş, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0181par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the Central Bank is linking the profits from the currency and gold in its possession to a profit-sharing account, and over the year-end profits, the Ministry of Finance has a tax on institutions, and the proceeds are transferred to the treasury of the Republic of Turkey. The difference in the price creation of gold and exchanges that have not been processed is not linked to the profit-harm account, but is monitored in the value account. According to a report I have just received, the government wants a share of the profits from 2020 to 2019, linking them to a profit and loss account that did not take place in the National Bank of Turkey. It's a very wrong thing to do. If we have an AK PARTY friend who knows anything about this, I'd like him to inform the House.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0180par0355	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0182par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. The D300 Kara Road, one of our country's most important east-western accents, is a total of 1,925km [1,925 km] long and begins from İzmir, reaching Van. The road to D300 Kara Road is 134 kilometers [334 km] long, located at an important point west of the east. The road's physical standard is low, especially in the fight during the winter months, with heavy snowfalls and types in visiting and erasing positions, and transportation has been compromised, endangering life and property security. The transfer of the road to Pinarbaş-Malatya to the Investment Programme for 2020 was proposed by our Highway 6th District Directorate on July 5, 2019. In order for the project to be completed to be put into the investment programme and to begin production work, to ensure that transportation between the east and west will be permanently gated...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0180par0360	Dear Private...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0183par0362	Mr. President, we've just extended another year of authority to send troops abroad. In the past, the Council of Ministers was demanding it, and a minister sat here and explained the reason, and we could even go to closed session if necessary, and in closed session, he was sharing state secret information in the House. We could ask questions, we could get details about anything we wanted to know about them. Just moments ago, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, a former Minister of Defense, sat on the stand and spoke for the EC PARTY, Fikri Iş, a former Minister of National Defence. Where's the need from?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0180par0364	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0183par0365	The need to make this statement is by giving reasons to those who demand authority, who will give authority for the nation. There's a division of forces, and instead of running it, there's someone coming out of the law, defending it; instead of running it, there's the commissioner of the law sitting there. I don't believe it. The system became a blind ball, unresolved. Not for every newborn, but for Erdogan, the Constitution has rendered the state obsolete, the House dysfunctional. Think about it, they want power, we welcome each other. And we're taking care of the minister's absence with the former ministers. Is that a thing? It's unbelievable. For God's sake, don't put up with this twisted system anymore. Together, we have the obligation to intervene.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0180par0367	Dear MPs, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be put on the agenda, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (/1095) Since the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Act on Value Taxes and Special Expension Tax Law is not concluded in 45 days by the main commission, I propose that my proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to the Civil Code 37 provisions. Yours truly. As the bidder, I give my word to Mr. Ahmet Akin. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0184par0379	Mr. President, thank you. Dear, dear friends, I salute you all. Dear friends, it's winter ahead. Now it's getting cold, in the houses, there's a great need for natural gas, electricity, big need, but unfortunately our nation is thinking about the land right now. How are we going to handle these bills? Remember, when the dollar went up to $7, you said, "The dollar went up, and we're going to raise electricity." You gave the raise right away. And then the dollar went down to $5, and we said, "Okay, the dollar's down, now lower the raise." You gave a lot of discounts, but you didn't really give a discount. Then what happened? Mr. President said: "Look, warn those who are opportunistic in these matters." But his greatest opportunism, unfortunately, was the AK PARTI government. What did he do? He put the raise on people's backs again without taking down my bonus. And since last year, there's been a five-time increase in natural gas and electricity, dear friends. Look, electricity went out in the houses, natural gas went out, electricity went out in 2017-2018 for 14 million 314,375 subscribers. In addition, between 2014 and 2018, the natural gas of 5 million 386,338 subscribers was cut off. Now, these recent raises, the ups and downs, have brought more and more trouble to the nation, and this number has increased even more. In the budget of 2019, Mr. Minister made a statement on November 2, 2018, saying: "We care about our shareholders, we have a citizen, we have 54 million subscribers." The question is: Did you ask the subscribers -- this last year's raises by 70 percent -- did you ask these subscribers, or did you do it by your own head? Have you thought about how this nation will burn, how it will pay for its natural gas, its electricity? Or did you just let people pay for the wreck of the groom minister who turned over a wreck with $60 billion in debt? Look, dear friends, you've made the Treasury head of the Treasury, like the groom who left the sector with $60 billion in debt. What did you do? Now, he's ruining it. For God's sake, get him out of there so people can have some comfort. Tell me about the economy, the experts, the experts. Besides, the AK PARTY came to power, what did it say? We're privatizing electricity distribution. Remember, dear friends, in the process of 2013, $12.7 billion was paid by 18 companies. What's this money worth with today's dry? 72 billion, $390 million, today's money. Now, the Minister of that time, Mr. Lightning, said that now the electricity will be cheap. The missing fugitive will go down, and it'll all be over. Companies are going to make a profit. What's the situation we're in? You look at this yourself, ask around, and you'll see that it's a wreck again, a wreck again. You blacked out the bills, why? Because you don't want people to see it, you're blacking out the taxes that people pay. What are you doing? You're playing a game against people, my dear friends. This is so wrong. There's a 50 lira energy price, 100 lira bill, people can't see what the taxes are. Now, think about it, worker, pensioner, officer can't even imagine getting a 15% raise, but you're saying, "You can't even get a 15% raise, but we're giving you a 70 percent raise." What does that mean? It's a misdemeanor. It's a shame and a sin. On March 27, 2019, the Minister of Energy left before the election, saying that as an election investment: no increase in natural gas, no increase in electricity. (June 24, what did you do?) You've given me a lot of highs. Dear friends, with this system you have brought, you have added energy poverty to the poverty of this nation. That's wrong too. And this, again, is going to pay off the debt of these companies that are on the back of the citizen, nothing more. Do the math, put yourself in this nation's shoes. He's paying 154 lira a month for minimum wage natural gas, 164 lira for electricity, what's that? 318 liras. E pays minimum wage in winter, giving more than 20 per cent of its salary to energy. Imagine, where he'll pay for the rest, how he'll live, how he'll live. I say this all the time: try living on this salary for a month, you'll know what this nation's going through. In energy, taxes hurt their consciences, my dear friends, their consciences. Now, our consciences ache greatly.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0185par0389	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0184par0390	Thank you. As a member of the Turkish nation, as a citizen, I ask that you put yourself in their place, question your conscience. Look, we said, "We want VAT to be reduced to 1 percent in the natural gas used to heat up the dwellings and the OTV to zero."
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0186par0393	Ahmet President, how much will the $100 bill go down if we say yes?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0184par0394	That's what I said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0186par0395	Say that again.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0184par0396	I told you, they're paying 100 lira for 50 liras of energy, so that doesn't add up with logic. And you turn it off, and you say, "Oh, don't let the citizens see it, they're paying whatever we say, so let's continue with our own followers, let's make this nation pay for the wreckage left by the Department of Energy. Friends, here's your chance, come, let's end this injustice of gas prices on this nation. It's a basic need, it's a fundamental right. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0187par0400	Good, good voice, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0184par0401	Let's take down the VAT, which is paid for natural gas in the homes, to 1 percent, and remove the OTV in natural gas. It's a basic need. I appeal to the conscience of all of you on this matter. It's not a party, it's not politics. The people on the other side are retired people, working people, you come in when you can't even imagine a 15% raise, and you say, "Sister, we're doing a 70 percent raise, and you're gonna pay for it, or we're gonna cut the power if you don't pay for it. No one thinks about how to read at home, how to warm up. Therefore, I call upon your consciences and ask you on behalf of our nation that this bill be taken into consideration. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit03spe0188par0406	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0188par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. A membership election will be held for the Council Research Commission, which aims to investigate suspicious Children's Deaths and determine the measures needed to be taken on this issue. I'll have the political party groups read the list of candidates shown for their membership and put them to your votes. The Committee for Parliamentary Investigations on the Purpose of Research of Suspected Children's Deaths and Precautions on this topic [[10 /1058, 1071, 1108, 1220, 1288, 1369, 1464, 1559, 1560]] [[6]] [[3]] [[1]] [[1]] [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the members of the Parliamentary Research Commission, elected on Wednesday (October 23rd 2019), tomorrow at 4:00 p.m., will meet in the Chamber of Public Relations Committees, and hold the election of President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk. The meeting date and time of the commission was also published on the electronic bulletin board. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin talks with Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bazili Yıldırım, who has been placed in the 1st place of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with the Constitutional Proposal and Foreign Commission Report Against the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the OECD Istanbul Centre for Economic Co-operation and Development. Commission? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 48 rows. The first word on the entire proposal belongs to Adana MP Ismail Konçuk (Ismail Konçuk) on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Concubine. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0189par0047	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI Group regarding Law Proposal Number 48. I salute your high council. Yes, as of 10:00 p.m. today, five days are due for the withdrawal of PYD/PKK. Of course, we've actually had historical days in the process, so we've witnessed historical events in terms of those who can judge, in terms of those who can see. For example, we've been subjected to insults we've never heard in our history. The letter sent by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, President of the United States Trump, was not really an insult to our heads of state, even in our weakest times in Turkish history. Of course, it touched our blood. After that sack incident, we're actually dealing with a situation that directly concerns our nation because the Turkish nation is a nation that is fond of its dignity, it's a proud nation, so it can't digest such things. Was there an answer? There was no answer. Akbasoglu just rolled it, bent it, but it's not like that.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0190par0052	That's right!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0189par0053	It's not like that.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0190par0054	That's exactly what happened!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0189par0055	It's not like that. I'll tell you. Patience, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0191par0056	What was Recep Akdağ's sin?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0190par0057	That's exactly what happened, and we actually responded.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0189par0058	Mr. President said...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0190par0059	You don't like it!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0192par0060	He's a dumpster! Why did you throw it at him? What did he do?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0189par0061	We answer them when the day comes, but we have love and respect.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0190par0062	You're proud of that, my friend.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0192par0063	What was Recep Akdağ's sin? Is that a trash can?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0193par0064	Let's hear it, guys.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0194par0065	Mr. President, when the day comes when we answer these things, he says, "We have love, we have respect." Now, what kind of love is that? So the president of a country that would insult you severely, our respect, our love, the man's respect for you, his love for you wouldn't do such an insult. So you can be President. The presidents represent the nation, not the individual, and in the name of the Turkish nation, it is incompatible with our national awareness and our idea of patriotism. I'll put it this way. Now, as we evaluate Operation Fountain of Peace, we're actually considering the goals you set. There's a sentence the President repeated over and over: our struggle will continue until there is no more than one terrorist. This is the goal, a clear goal. Well, after the talks with Pence, can we say after this operation -- except for one party -- the state of the Republic of Turkey, which the Assembly has decided with the alliance? Can we say that we will fight until there are no more terrorists? No. You know what we say now? We have control of a certain area, an area of 1,500 square kilometers. Is that the target? Now, you're the one who set the target. We will fight until there are no more terrorists. The AKP government has set its target. Now, with that goal in the open, we've brought the United States to its knees today. You can't judge this with a classic A News approach, you have no right. It's cheating. Then you will say: "This was our goal, but we cannot accomplish it. " You must clearly explain openly to the nation why you have strayed from your goal, and why you have strayed. Now, when the operation began, Mr. President called the political party presidents and informed them. Mr. President has also called Ms. Meral, who has informed us of the operation, which is a very good approach, but after meeting with Pence -- Mr. Group Vice President here -- did such a search take place, informing political party leaders, taking their views? We're talking about a national case that the Turkish nation has supported you with an alliance because it's a political issue. Despite the cracks of the EC PARTY in foreign policy in the fight against terrorism, no political party, except 1 political party, has found it right and supported it. In that case, it was a courtesy to inform the nation first of the reasons for the five-day break, first of the political party's presidents, while concessions were made from Operation Fountain of Peace, which was agreed on by such a national agreement. So you've done this national agreement on purpose or ignorance, and you've destroyed it. Of course we will, because we're talking about a martyr movement by the Turkish Armed Forces. We believe that we don't want a separatist state, a PKKistan at our border; we've made that very clear, we've always expressed it. We're going to be on the side of any action in this matter... even our President, Meral Akşener, has made it clear that as a member of an al flag party, we should all consider this incident, all of Turkey has declared to the world. So instead of telling the point where such an action came from correctly, sir, we had the U.S. kneel down. We had the letter torn out. They came together. We think that it would also harm this national agreement to create these sentences in order to play internal politics, which is actually not the right way to describe our situation at all. So, we, of course, wish the Turkish Armed Forces, our troops, success, but once again, as the GOOD PARTY, we say that we are with you in national matters, but make no mistake, cheat us or the nation. Without exploiting flaws, flaws, wrongs in this national case, speak properly so that we may be able to stand by you on those national issues from now on. Dear MPs, of course, there's a lot to be said about this, but hopefully 22. We'll see after 100. We don't know much about what came out of the meeting with Russia today, and it will soon be revealed.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0195par0073	He's out in 150 hours, he's out in 150 hours.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0194par0074	Is it long?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0195par0075	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0194par0076	It's gone.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0195par0077	22. Don't wait for 00, so there's another 30 hours.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0194par0078	Thirty hours...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0196par0079	It's about Menbic.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0195par0080	I don't care. I mean, anywhere.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0194par0081	Yeah, well, there's a stop again, so there's a stop. Dear lawmakers, of course, because of these national issues of our country, we've become a little critical of bringing up Turkey's problems with our people. Are we misunderstood? We have concerns, but there are serious problems in our country. So we have to evaluate the agenda of Turkey before we forget it. Now, of course, there is no choice. I just said that in my speech. There's no election coming up soon, I don't know if it's an early election or not. But since there's no choice, we're investigating that the government is acting with an understanding that has completely forgotten the nation, that it's doing activities. People are full, there's no unemployment in Turkey, there's no lack of money in Turkey, there's a political power in Turkey that's served the justice of the revenue distribution, as if there's a hand in the oil and a hand in the honey. There's a political power that doesn't count on people. I'm asking you what radical step you're taking to solve the unemployment problem. Turkey has a serious unemployment rate. Young unemployment found 26 per cent of them, 27 (27). What radical step did you take? Now, we're looking at a budget law proposal, 60,000 jobs, 60,000 jobs in public. Is that enough for 500,000 teachers waiting for the appointment in February for 60,000 jobs? There are 500,000 teachers waiting for the appointment. 60,000 jobs aren't enough for them. There are 500,000 degrees in economics and administrative sciences in this country. There are 500,000 graduates of Economics School of Administic Sciences that you've forgotten for years that you've left helpless, that you've left helpless, that you're ignoring. Look, they have an objection: there's a 4001 code, code 4001. Does anyone know what this 4001 code is? You know what? The 4001 code is to sell hope, hope. The AKP is selling power to hope. The 4001 code is, for example, that you're hiring for the Treasury Department, that he should be a graduate of the Economics School of Administration when he's hiring for the Finance Ministry, but you're taking the teacher, you're taking the chemistry major, you're taking the Science School graduate, you're opening that area to all the faculty. But the members of that area are obvious. You hire people at customs doors, you open that door with a code 4001 to majors that have nothing to do with it. So unless you give up this 4001 code, we're not going to be able to cure 500,000 graduates of Economics School of Administic Sciences. 500,000 teachers, even more than 500,000, came up with 700,000. So when we include all those who have the right to apply for teaching, we're dealing with over 700,000. So we need to figure this out, you need to figure it out. Will you then take heed? Do you not understand? So you don't think about what's going to happen to 500,000 teachers, 700,000 teachers. Sir, there are hundreds of thousands of health workers, unemployed, no hope of that. 60,000 casts, 60,000 casts in 2020. It means leaving our young people to be absent, leaving them to despair. That means destroying these young people in the most productive age of their lives. So even the right to come up with such an understanding and say that I am a good ruler of this state is gone. For him, the 60,000 figures in this Budget Law must be revised in accordance with the facts of Turkey. You know, Mr. President, the famous word of Sheikh Edebali, he often says: "Live man so that the state can live. This is not living man; it is not living man; it is keeping our young people alive, and the future of our young people. Why don't you tell me what you're looking out for? What problem could we argue that Turkey's political power, which has not been able to solve the young unemployment problem in 17 years, has been able to solve it? The barut is finished. It's a job at the end. It means that the war ended when you failed to solve the young unemployment problem. So I think that in order for Turkey not to face more serious problems, you need to solve the young unemployment problem first. You gave the subcontractors a position, and you said, "We're going to give 1 million subcontractors." No, that's not a number, that's wrong. Look, in 2002, there were only about 20,000 subcontractors in public; the year you came to power in 2002, only 20,000. Do you know what time it is? In public, this number has risen to 700-800,000, and when we include municipalities, we face a number that exceeds 1 million, and when we include the private sector, we face 2 million subcontractors. Why? It's your clumsy government understanding. Subcontractorship is a system of exploitation, exploiting the future of our children, allowing the marrow, the bone, the blood to be exploited; you've done it for years. You said you didn't. There are still problems going on, there are problems going on in the OSCE. You cheat on people. There were a lot of subcontractors working in hospitals, only a few of them, you put in 70 percent quotas, 30 percent of them are out of work today. Today a citizen who has been working as a subcontractor for 20 years has come to me, 20 years, at Ankara Numune Hospital, who has not even been compensated, has filed a lawsuit. Have fear of God, it's on your time. He's been working for 20 years, you're gonna fire him, you're not gonna pay his severance package, and he's gonna try to get that right by suing. Is this government management? Is that being fair? So do not deceive the people about this subcontractor. You've only given those subcontractors a 4+4 increase by the end of 2020, even if inflation is 50 percent, the increase in subcontractors will be 4%. Is that an understanding? What kind of an account is this, someone explain it, and for that reason say this? So inflation is 50%, subcontractor rate is 4%. What kind of an account is this? It needs to be explained to people. Now, farmers are miserable -- I've got a lot of stuff, and I'm running out of time, but -- farmers are miserable. Dear lawmakers, we have to take care of the farmer. Look, we didn't get the breakthroughs we wanted in technology. Yeah, we had a farm, and you're destroying that agriculture, and you're finishing that agriculture. I told you the other day, the cotton manufacturers are in bad shape. So when he sells the cotton he gets, he can't even afford to pay for that one acre. It's a mathematical account, ask anyone. Isn't it the power's job to solve this? We said, "Give him $1.5 per kilo, remove that 500 kilo limit, give him $1.5 per kilo, and the men will disappear." Now, sir, if we don't keep the tea, if we don't keep the nuts, if we don't keep the cotton, the wheat, the sunflower, if we don't keep the peanuts, how do we keep the farm and the farmer? To do that, the Ministry of Agriculture would have to organize the government's agricultural policies by discussing them with their own partners. Look, you've reconstructed past debts by May 2019, but it's not a step to restructure the debt of the farmer who's been losing since May 2019 -- look, it's October. Why? Why isn't it being thrown out? Since May, a new debt payment programme for the farmer's new debts will cut off the lemon thorn garden tomorrow as long as there is no longer a long-term program. As the AK PARTY government, there is no technological breakthrough, however much we're going to make a plane. We're going to build a car. Even if you say it, we can't see them, so I think it's our right to at least see that you hold on to agriculture like this. Our tradesmen are in terrible shape. There's a message coming to you that our tradesmen can't pay their debts to BUG-KUR, and we can't pay our debts to BUG-KUR. Responding to my speech on e-accession, the esteemed MP of the AK PARTI (AK PARTI) expressed a sense of perception, although we have expressed a fact, not to create a perception. These are the economic realities of Turkey, the Turkish people. I'm running out of time, I've got a lot of notes, but I'll tell them, as long as there are national issues, people can't think about their pockets or their stomachs, our nation is such a patriotic, nationalist nation, but you can't go on advertising. Tomorrow he'll remember his stomach, tomorrow he'll remember his kid's out of work, tomorrow he'll remember injustice, lawlessness, and you'll be under it. I'm saying that you're going to pay the ultimate price for forgetting people, and I'm paying respects.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0197par0094	Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Ismail Özdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0198par0097	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute our Veteran Assembly with love and respect. I have received a pledge from the Nationalist Action Party Group on the Perpetual Law Proposal on the Approvement of Agreement for the Establishment of OECD Istanbul Centre between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization. The agreement on the establishment of the Istanbul Centre of Economic Co-operation and Development Agency was signed on 31 May 2018 in Paris. It is said that a five-year period for the OECD Istanbul Centre is envisioned in the first place, but it is also possible to extend the duration of the operation under the agreement of the parties if necessary. The OECD Istanbul Centre has been agreed to conduct its work and activities with a voluntary contribution of 1m euros per year, which will be provided by Turkey. Again, the work of this Centre also states that competitiveness, enterprise, trade, management, innovation, the movement of human capital, the development of infrastructure and the development of dialogue among the shareholders, as well as the aim of developing policies in these areas. The OECD Istanbul Centre, which will move its relations with the founder of Turkey's OECD, is not only to support the progress of Turkey and its nearby geography on its development path, but also to contribute to our country's regional and international reputation, and is expected to benefit from the work of the Centre, particularly the Balkans, the Middle East and North Africa. Thus, the establishment of this Centre in Istanbul and its presence in this sense as a host of Turkey will also contribute to our country's reputation in the international arena. And speaking of the fact that so far, a large number of international institutions -- especially the United Nations -- have also opened up in our country, I would like to say that we have already discussed this agreement with the Foreign Commission, and in the question that we have asked the State Department which of these organisations are involved with this agreement, the Ministry has already shared information about which of these international institutions are and which states it operates in our country. There are many international organisations, but I would like to point out to General Kurula that 44 international organisations operate in various parts of our country and 27 of them are located in Ankara, while there are 24 in Istanbul, 9 in Gaziantep, 3 in İzmir, 2 in Hatay, 2 in Mersin, Van and Gebze. Thus, we see that the number of offices spread throughout our provinces is 71, with 44 international organisations in our country. Our hope is that our country's softness and diplomatic weight in this sense will also be increased and improved, and Turkey will indeed play a leading role in international efforts again in this sense and support this pioneer role with other policies. Hopefully, he wishes this deal to be a blessing, so I'd like to express our support once again, by the way. Mr. President, on October 9, 2019, the state of the Republic of Turkey launched a military operation called the Fountain of Peace, which covers a 120km area between Tel Abyad and Eluayn in Syria, and with this action, it is intended to be cleared of the terrorist organization PKK/PYD, which is also located on the east side of the Fırat River, along the border with the protection of Syria's territorial integrity. In addition, because of civil war, after such goals have been achieved, there is no doubt that Syrian asylum seekers, guests who are in our country, return safely to their territory is among the goals, and thus the peace and stability of the region is desired. The operation, which began in this scope, has successfully advanced, and has indeed made a sound in the international community, as Turkey again puts its weight on both the field conditions and at the point of diplomacy. There is no doubt that the sound of this noise has been as disturbing to those who have changed the borders in our region and set up to draw maps in this region, which also has a hundred years' worth of accounts, because the same scenarios, as the Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (Ghazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk) appeared on May 19, 1919, while the global imperial projects, along with the emergence of Samsun (Syssun), were determined that the Turkish nation could not achieve its goal with its own blessed will, and that the Turkish nation would not be able to achieve its goal today, but that the people's will be able to achieve its purpose in Turkey's own darkness. Of course, there was an agreement with the United States of America as the operation progressed. We've been in the final hours of this agreement. According to a statement from our Ministry of National Defence at a press conference today, 160 settlements have been controlled within the area so far, and 2,200 square miles of area has been completely purged of terror. However, seven of our heroic soldiers have been martyred during this operation. I hereby ask for the mercy of our heroes, of our martyrs, of the Lord God. Of course, Turkey has not only had efforts and efforts in the following field in this process, but in the near process. From October 9th, we've been seeing it all the time, whether it was international media organizations or other parties or third parties, each one of them had Turkey's agenda. Nothing could possibly be considered as natural in the environments, which Turkey, with its own will and its own decision, would have made as much a bet as the other decisions the United Nations Security Council has made regarding the fight against terrorism, under Article 51 of the United Nations requirements. But we also have to say that in terms of the establishment of the national will and the awareness of unity and unity, both our government and the position of our Parliament have demonstrated, a significant record of history has been made. And in the face of such an important threat of terrorism in Syria, our National Minister of Defence has visited political parties, as well as the information our Foreign Minister has made in Parliament, and it is necessary to state here that such an important effort has been made. While the legitimacy and rightness of the operation are evident, we have noticed that some countries meet in opposition to Turkey and offer extremely baseless grounds. As long as we're on national issues and together, side by side with Turkey's anxiety and love, no one will bend our wrist under these conditions, no one will, of course, bring Turkey to its knees. In the most difficult of circumstances, the Turkish nation has shown its virtue of being together as it passes through the harshest trials in history, beating hearts. Today is the time to show the same historical responsibility once again. If necessary, we face all challenges, if necessary, and if necessary, we will put our lives on the line, as our profession did, including those who established our republic before us, but we will never compromise our independence, our national unity and integrity. And under the circumstances, we've all observed that the stance that Turkey has already exhibited has already begun to yield results. Mr. President, there's no doubt that Turkey's efforts in Syria since 2011 have led to significant improvements in bringing peace, peace and stability to our region, at places where the international community has been inadequate, related to the end of civil war and the overcoming of the crisis. There have been many statements, especially the beginning of the Astana process, which has resulted in many areas to start in Aleppo, which we have been involved in together with Russia and Iran. Today, it is also one of our top wishes that such efforts will be successful in the United Nations, especially in the political negotiations that will begin in Geneva. Because we've been seeing for the first time that this process has already begun or has already begun to come to an end. According to a statement from the United Nations, the issues related to the existence and agendas of the Constitutional Committee, which will be convened in Geneva on October 30th, were already shared with the international public. However, in the work of the Syrian Constitutional Committee, which will be met with this agenda, of course the Syrians will make the decision with their own countries. But I'd like to submit to the General Assembly that the international community also has three basic titles to address with precision. The first is the preservation of Syrian integrity, as everyone puts it. Hopefully, each environment will demonstrate a sincere approach to the protection of Syrian territorial integrity, as well as to action as it is expressed in words. The second issue is that since the beginning of the civil war, one of the main topics that have caused problems in Syria and caused many crises to be torn apart is the changing of demographic structure. Sadly, a number of other armed groups or terrorist groups that exist in Syria, particularly PKK/PYD, have also been involved in such activities. In particular, it has been very negative for the population to move from Turkey's settlements and Arab settlements to areas that are increasingly reinforced by different populations and even from Iraq, Syria, Syria, Syria. Now, in the effort to transition to this political process, all of this has to be taken into account in a crucial and priority manner. The third and most important issue is that there is no doubt that the efforts of terrorist organisations to find legitimacy are prevented and prevented. See, today, we use our own international right to eliminate terror threats and other threats that have been made to our own citizens, both in Syria and Iraq, according to Article 51 of the United Nations. Under 30km, however, we should already be convinced that there are other terrorist organisations and groups that could pose a threat to Turkey's national unity and integrity, especially the PKK/PYD terrorist organisation. There's no doubt that these terror groups, which are more than 30 kilometers away from us, are the problem under 20 miles. And that's also in the sense that... well, today, last-minute information has dropped, and I'd like to point out that we also care about the fact that in our President's meeting with Russia with Russian President Putin....we also care about the fact that the separatist groups in Syria have been banned from their activities. Hopefully, those who exist in Syria will be prevented from trying to bring the actual situation to a legal level. Now, under the circumstances, the timing of our country's launch of Operation Peace Fountain stands before us once again. Our wish is to bring peace and stability to Syria as soon as possible. For that to happen, of course, the conditions in Syria must first be set in place. I think it will be more often spoken after today, especially the topics related to the Assad regime, which are already slowly coming to the agenda of international public opinion. However, there is one thing to remember: about 4 million Syrians live in us. Again, millions of Syrians live outside Syrian territory, almost all of which are Syrians who have escaped the persecution of Assad. So at some point, we need to think about the problems that may arise about whether or not the regime will guarantee them or give them to them. So, we've established a secure zone, a secure line, 20 miles deep in Syria. With the Battle of the River Shield, we had great initiatives with Operation Olive Dare, where some 350,000 Syrian brothers went to live in our country and relocated there. An open reality: Would these Syrians have gone there if conditions had been just an area that Assad had controlled? Of course, it seems unlikely to be able to give a reasonable answer to that question, for the current situation. I'd like to point out that we have entered into an agenda that has been sensitive to the development of relations with the regime in progress and in the process of constitutional construction, and especially in Turkey and in Turkey's agenda. Because in this area, we have to think about the fact that the accounts and the covered accounts are slowly starting to come out. I'd like to give you an example: PKK/PYD terror organization comes out of a settlement in Syria, withdraws; military elements of another country that supports it are being pulled away with that terrorist organization, but unfortunately, under normal circumstances, another country in the international system and across Syrian territory can easily enter that settlement. So, what we need to be careful about as Turkey is the reality that other countries, without our knowledge, may or may not have had some covert agendas related to the Syrian crisis. For this reason, the National Movement Party and Mr. President have long expressed the need for us to develop the Ankara-based perspective of Turkey's foreign policy and foreign policy. We can't be in position anymore, looking at what's going on in other capitals. Turkey is a country that has important goals, a country that wants to establish its stability, and is trying to bring a stable understanding to its territory, and hopefully will be able to do so. And I would like to say that we want to make that effort to succeed, to succeed, that we want it to be above all else, which is already clear to the Justice and Development Party that the National Movement Party has given its power in terms of both the fight against terrorism and our foreign policy. Again, as our Mr. President-in-Chief stated in 2012, it is also very important to see the security zone in the form of the east end, which is built at a step-by-step in order to include Kandil. And it is also very important to see that the threat, which is already directed at Turkey, has been reduced. In terms of fighting terrorism, Turkey is in a successful phase. Thank God, I hope we won't relive it, we won't see new ones, but we once established a will and determination to drain Turkey's terror from its source, with policies, policies and measures being followed in its place today as we talk about terror within our own borders. I hope that this determination will unite our country with an understanding that will bring us together in the 21st century, in both its territory and in the global political scene, in our history, in our strong future. I salute our Veteran Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0199par0120	The first speaker on behalf of individuals is İstanbul MP Turan Aydoğan. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0200par0123	I salute the High Council. We have no opposition to the Law Proposal 48, so let me explain from here that we're going to vote positive for this law, we're not going to have any criticism of it, but there are so many criticisms that we have to share them here. Now, valued lawmakers, I'm going to tell you about a movie film that appeared in 1983, directed by Atif Yilmaz, screenwriter Yavuz Turgul: Şekerpare. Almost all of us watch and laugh all the time, tragic. It's a film that we find hard to understand whether it's sad or funny or tragic, or if it's very tragic. The summary of the film is that the great artist Sener Şen Galata is the handler of a police station in Galata. Stinking, all kinds of shit, all the scams that were going on during the last period of the Ottoman Empire are tragically described in this film. If Yavuz Turgul had seen this, did you ever think about how he'd talk about these days? I'm sure when he put on the glasses in this movie, he'd put on something much bigger than this movie. Now that you've created a Turkey in front of us, someone is saying that the income of the household has tripled. There's a limit to throwing it away, throw away what we're holding. People are starving, don't you see? The people you're not seeing are on the roof of the House, and I'm here to see the MP of the AK PARTY or whatever, and I can't see him. He's trying to throw himself off the roof. Hunger, misery, all sorts of unrest, loss of initiative in the area... Can't you see that our national honor is being played 10,000 kilometers away, and your consciences are aching, and we have the same honor? From 10,000 kilometers away, an interesting head of state appears to insult our President. We threw it away, huh? Nothing gets thrown out of the public archives, gentlemen. You can't explain it with new fashion phrases like that. We're descendants of a generation of Kuvasimilli with a spirit, and we're fond of national dignity. On the day of this incident, the Republican People's Party called out, saying to Mr. President: "Whatever you do, we're behind you, so return the favor, don't take any action." Don't go to the U.S., don't sit with the arrivals. Protect our national honor, we are with you. What are you talking about? You sat down, you shut up, you didn't open your mouth. In this House, almost every group's interests have criticised this work, and you've come here, defending us for the heavy insults of a strange person in charge of the United States. This is the Veteran Assembly. This is the People's Assembly. How can you be so insensitive in here! Okay, let's take over the national honor everywhere, and we'll take care of Mr. President. You take the president of the AKP, we'll take the president, what shall we do? Now, in such an environment, unemployment is on the rise, injustices are on the rise. You've fired more than 125 thousand people under a decree of law. You went out to settle these injustices, you put a finger on people's mouths, you gave birth to a mountain rat. We've been calling you for months, and we've said that there are serious sociological problems in this country because of injustice, so let's fix them, and you're quiet. You've made injustice a tradition. Do you know what your last injustice is? You won't let go of Istanbul, where you've got your hands off. Looters, looters! (HPP clapping in rows) Leave Istanbul's collar! Istanbul sent you! Mr. President of Istanbul said, "God forgive us, we have betrayed Istanbul. Let him go, let him go! The people of Istanbul have banished you, brother, and punished you. You put one hand in the hand of the porter, and you stick your other hand in Haydarpaşa, and at the station of the Vinegar.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0201par0131	Look at the counties, the counties!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0200par0132	We promised you, Mr. Imamoglu, in the streets: we won't let Istanbul touch you!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0202par0134	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0200par0135	You will not touch Istanbul, but you will know your place! Don't try to sneak in from there where you lost by a million votes. You go through the door, you try to get through the chimney.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0202par0136	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0203par0137	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0200par0138	Istanbul has a city, and Ekrem Imamoğlu is the lover of İstanbul. You'll take it! You'll take it! You'll digest democracy, you'll leave Istanbul alone! [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] The world heritage of Haydarpaşa and Sirkeci is two points in Istanbul. By what right do you intend to deliver Istanbul illegally without asking a man who worked at the gates of the city on a salary of 3,000 lira yesterday, and where he created 20 million inventory in a short time? You think we'll give it to you? You'll apologize to the people of Istanbul for what you've done! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, Mr. Minister will come out, tell İstanbul's lover, Ekrem Imamogluna, you have these powers as mayor, this tender is under the influence. You're the one who's making the impression, brother. You've got pictures of the President of the Archery Federation, day and night. Then you'll get out of here, and you'll be a Federation lawyer. I knew you were a builder, I didn't know we were colleagues. I haven't seen Minister Turhan in court until today. The President of the Archery Federation has become a lawyer for the Hezarfen Corporation, we see. No matter what you do, you can't pull this off. The Turkish statements of İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, which you have been walking around until yesterday, are two Arabic words, if you are Arab lovers, let's know that they are two different words in Arabic -- two Turkish words in Arabic -- you prefer to two Turkish words, and you don't want to tender them from here, do you? That's irregular too. You're getting it first, in violation of all the rules of administrative law, the tender, the phase, according to regulations... read the 40th article of the State Railways Administration, read it, all of you, and then we'll talk. According to that clause, when you're supposed to call in a negotiation process after you've been eliminated, you leave a company alone with a bunch of loose ends. We'll feed you Istanbul, huh? Get out of here, get out of here, get out of here. Istanbul has divorced you. Stay away from Istanbul, keep your hands off it, don't touch the world's heritage. You won't have time to apologize anymore. Listen, listen, you know.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0204par0144	Don't get worked up, don't get worked up.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0200par0145	Come if you want.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0205par0146	Shout it out, you look good.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0200par0147	You'll be tendering four members of the Metropolitan Municipality, doing a preliminary review, getting an offer. Then the two companies are alone, you'll say: "No, we are not calling." Who are you, who aren't you calling? The bureaucrats there are uncomfortable with you, too, just so you know. They're scared, brother. They're scared. If Devran returns, we will be overwhelmed. They are afraid, let me tell you, no more pressure, no more work. I'm telling you, we're not leaving Istanbul. I told you from this bench that we will never give you Istanbul again. You have not listened, you have received a million votes. I'll fall, 800,000 votes.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0206par0148	Istanbul regrets, regrets.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0207par0149	What does the HDP say?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0200par0150	My brother, my dear brother, I don't make deals with the general of the PYD. I'm not making a deal with a U.S.A. to protect a Russian and a PYD general. You know your place, you explain it first, you explain it first, we'll see what the HDP says. (Applause from CHP rows) HDP is a legal party, no matter what the PYD says, is it legal? You've been talking, you've been sitting. We said, "There are four states in the region, talk to them, make peace with them, run diplomacy." You said, "No, we will fight." You've gone, you've come a long way. Well, that's good, but let's make it count. We're fans, we're fans of peace, just so you know. We do, so don't pick on domestic politics anymore. In domestic politics, we take care of your account, no matter what you do, it doesn't matter. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You will withdraw your hand from Istanbul. Istanbul showed you a red card. And ye shall enter into Haydarpaşa, and into Sirkeci, as a wayfarer, and as a wayfarer. If you want, you can enter as a tourist, but we will never bring the plundering mentality back into Istanbul. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ekrem Imamoğlu and I have promised in the streets that we will protect Istanbul with the people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0208par0157	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0209par0158	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0208par0159	I just want to make it clear to the transcripts that I don't feel the need to answer all the wrong, all the way down to lies, all the slanderous talk. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0210par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0211par0163	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying. He called me a liar. It's not like that!
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0212par0164	The Deputy Director of the Group wants a word. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0213par0168	Mr. President, the speaker didn't say an unrealistic word or a sentence on the stand. You might find it harsh. Hatib is saying that Istanbul and the world's apple use two squares of Istanbul, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality has been asked to do so. He applied. As a result of his application, you can enter the tender." I've been told. He was then eliminated from writing pictures of someone who was paid $3,000 from İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality three years ago, who was the General Manager of the Archers Foundation, without being invited to the tender of İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, and instead of you under contract and jointly writing the Turkish language of the Words." I've been told. This job is to eliminate a public service agency like İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality illegally and pursue historical squares, sites, locations, and places to the company of a puppet contractor who has contact with a family. When that happens, God has no...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0214par0170	Go to court. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0213par0171	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0215par0172	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0213par0173	We can see that in all its clarity, he was caught red-handed. One doesn't say, "Sir, it's not true, it's because of this inadequacy, it's because of this inadequacy, it's for Istanbul's people, it's not for CHP's people; it's not for AKP's people, it's not for anyone else's. But you're an Archery Foundation, which is identical to the family, whose puppet, pawn, subcontractor, and a man in need of a salary of £3,000, an inventory company worth 20 trillion, which is, I don't know, what you do with it, is, in its lightest expression, a lack of conscience, an injustice, a lack of justice, a right to a servant. You can't handle this shame. May Allah not put any group in this position. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0216par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0217par0177	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0216par0179	Mr. President, I just made it clear that none of the statements made to our group on the stand were true, that none of them were true, and that I didn't need to answer.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0218par0180	Come on, answer me.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0216par0181	The Minister of Transport has made the necessary statements regarding this, and the business has been brought to court, and the court will make a decision. I don't feel the need to say too much about it. However, Mr. Group, what the Vice President has said is not really in line with the scope of the work, it is incompatible with the scope of the House, because it does not reveal the truth. As a matter of fact, we'll talk later, hopefully, about what happened in the process of this tender, which the mayor himself has been feeding with tenders and making the Director General of Culture.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0219par0183	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0216par0184	However, creating an agenda for domestic politics, which is unrelated to today's environment, such as the risotto of the contract, will be valued by our nation as a move to change the agenda and cloud Turkey's gains, Turkey's diplomatic victories. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0220par0186	Mr. President... Mr. Special, let's wrap it up. Here you go. Mr. President, let's wrap this up. If Mr. Akbasoglu were to speak from the bench, there are also points that he would have to answer from the bench, but let's say that with regard to your sensitivity: Culture Asş is an associate of İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. It's a cultural treat, it's an audit. Culture Inc, not a family, not a dynasty, not a person, not an Istanbulian, people, but the company you're building is a family, a dynasty's contact and contact, a person he's protecting. The state's minister told the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, "You -- for reasons, Arabic, Turkish of the word -- have been eliminated. It is not a crime if he says, "You've been eliminated from the word's Arabic, Turkish." Now we all know that the Justice and Development Party has no connection... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...who's not involved in these things, who's afraid of lies, who's afraid of corruption, who votes for good in voting, but who's afraid of lying. It has a very serious and very uncomfortable base that doesn't digest when it sees it. The face of that base, in respect of water, we're telling you that you represent the people here. This corruption of the Archery Foundation, the pawn of Bilal Bey, is not appropriate for the nation to defend this irregularity. Never make that mistake, never stand behind it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The talks on the entire proposal have been completed. I submit to your votes that it shall be passed on to its Articles, those in favor. Those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF THE TURKEY COMMUNITY OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE EMPLOYEMENT OF THE EMPLOYEMENT OF THE EMPLOYEMENT OF THE EMPLOYEMENT OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSITY MADDE 1 - (I) was signed on May 31, 2018 in Paris and "The adoption of The Covenant Zaptif (Agreement) on establishing the OECD Istanbul Centre between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0221par0205	On the 1st article, Ankara MP Servet Ünal will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0222par0208	Dear President, my dear friends, hello to all of you. Dear friends, I was in Germany last week. Of course, Germany is a bitter country, where we have nearly five million citizens. I have two sons, an engineer at Nürnberg, and I went to them on October 13th. Sure, I had a bad run-in, fellas. One of our children, a brother who had successfully completed ODTÜ, is found dead at the train station. Friends, Mert is a successful child who won the ODTU. This child of ours is finishing both electrical-electronics in ODTU, and finishing the math department, where he goes to do his master's. Of course, my two sons, the electrical-electronic engineer and the friend of Mert. When I said that, we had to take care of it, and I made immediate attempts to comfort the family. I immediately visited our consul, Serdar Deniz and Consul Selçuk Eke, both of whom I kiss by the eyes. Because there are suspicious points, information pollution. I tried to learn from the friends'circle because of the acquaintances of our young man, Mert, who died after the incident, but I saw that the German police were being extremely secretive. In short, they told our embassy that even our consulate was not answered, brothers and sisters at the consulate. So I immediately went to the commissioner in charge, and they said it was suicide. So I found the Nürnberg imam again, and I found out that the Nürnberg imam didn't wash the body for an autopsy. Later, a company was founded to bury funerals, and I saw those corporate officials, dear friends. They said they had never touched the funeral, and six days later, they told our officials, our consul, you have a funeral, come and get it. Later, because this boy was from Bursa, I called our district MP, Erkan Aydın. I told his family to pay his respects. Dear Erkan did what he had to do and even carried it out on television. Of course these events must be illuminated because our children are everything to us, our future. We all know that there's a very serious brain drain, my friends, and we know that over 250,000 college graduates are abroad. Dear friends, there are circumstances that need to be answered. In that sense, an answer comes to the Consul later, saying there was a letter found, a German friend in charge and two witnesses, but while I was there, there were no letters or statements from witnesses. In that sense, I received the death certificate from the authorities right there, dear friends. The death certificate says that there is doubt in German, not natural death. There's a letter on him, but no one can get to this letter either. Of course, it turned out to be a suicide. The funeral of Mert. Mert was brought to Turkey on October 12th. We know that an autopsy was carried out in İstanbul's Medical Examiner's office immediately, but there are many questions about Mert. We've got a lot of kids sitting there, reading, working, and I can see they're all very nervous, you guys. Yes, it is our duty, of course, to protect the rights of these children. In this sense, the citizen of the Republic of Turkey is not alone in the country or abroad, and is not homeless. Yeah, well, we shouldn't all, as authorities, allow anyone to be beaten, exposed to injustice, injustice. My dear friends, I truly believe you will be sensitive to this event. I had my interviews with Istanbul Forensics yesterday about the report, and our doctor friends said the report wasn't released because it was a suspicious death. My dear friends, of course, the country has a lot of problems. We had a question proposal and a study today, and our dear Vice President gave a speech about violence against health workers. Of course, as a medical doctor, as your brother as a physician, I condemn the violence against these health workers, my friends. Dear friends, just last week, a doctor gets a razor because he didn't prescribe drugs for a patient. See, that's the doctor's condition. Friends, you all have doctors in your family. In that sense, you have to take full care of the doctors because the country whose doctors are troubled is troubled. There's no end to these problems. Look, I'm giving you an example from Australia, my dear friends. If a nurse, a doctor, or an ambulance, someone attacks a paramedic, it means they think it's okay. The Australian law says it's okay. So we'll give you 14 years to think again -- because you think it's not -- says the Australian law. Guys, I've already explained to you here that 11 doctors have been killed in the last ten years. These values, our doctors, our engineers, they don't grow easily, my friends. In this sense, the Ministry of Health and Justice must come together with absolute and absolute unity, and the absolute and absolute law on violence should be passed on the doctor, the health officer, the health staff or the nurse. I repeat, Mr. Gul and Minister of Health, please do your duty. In fact, the Minister of Health is a physician. In that sense, I invite you to do your duty immediately. Dear friends, these values don't grow easily. In this sense, I'd like to speak to you about a little poem written by a friend of ours for our dying child and doctors who never end their problems, especially if you'd listen carefully. I said, doctor, tell me a cure. He told me your problem was desperate. I said, can't I just die like this? He said, "Have you ever seen a lover without a wound?" I didn't come into this world to suffer, I didn't laugh and laugh like hands, I didn't take the trouble with the money, He said the suffering from the law was free. Is this my writing? If I can afford it, I'll break it. I've got a lot on my plate, I've got a lot on my plate. He said no matter how many times you drive it, it's rent-free. Dear friends, thank you for listening to me. I give you all my love and respect and hope that you will take care of this child and our doctors again. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0223par0238	Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0224par0241	Mr. President, thank you. The Parliamentary News Magazine, which is now being published by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This magazine has June, July, August 30th Victory, Erzurum Congress, Amasian Generality, the Lausanne Treaty, but Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's picture has been forgotten. In the coming days, October 29th, Republic Day is coming. In that magazine, I would like to request that the picture of Ataturk be included in you by the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-22sit04spe0225par0247	[[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] We all carry the honor of having a leader like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Therefore, no one can forget Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. A great leader who founded our state, built the oppressor, the flag free, the Turkish state. [[A round of applause from CHP, MPP and GOOD PARTY]] I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards who have not been able to get into the system to the presidential office during the time they've been given a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Turkish Parliament Speaker of the Grand National Assembly, İzmir MP Bazil Yıldırım (Turkish Republic Government and Economic Co-operation and Development Organization) "The number of votes used: 260 [[x]] Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Mustafa Düçgöz The offer has been accepted and legalized. We are starting talks with Turkish Parliament Speaker Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop, who has been ranked in the 2nd place, who has been appointed President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mustafa Şentop, who is in charge of the Security of the Used Fuel Administration and Radioactive Waste Administration, and is in line with the Statement of the Republic of Turkey's Law Proposal and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with Konya MP Ziya Altunyaldız and the Commission for Information and Technology Report on the Law Proposal and Industry, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology Report on the Amendment to the Customs Law of 85 MPs. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other work on our agenda, it is Wednesday (October 23rd 2019) that we discuss legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
