tbmm-2019-04-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Dear lawmakers, we have put behind us an important process for democracy in the local elections held on March 31, 2019, before moving on to the General Assembly of the presidency's presentations. I wish the elections would bring benefits to our country, to our democracy. All of our elected mayors, all of our political parties celebrate each and every one of our valued mayors, and I wish them all the best. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Our coven has been closed for a long time due to local elections. I also want to say that I am very happy to find you and to see you at this opening on this occasion. I'd like to welcome you all. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Dear MPs, Mr. Hayati Printer, one of our former ministers, as you know, recently lost his father. I offer my condolences to the Printer family and to his father God's mercy. Now, let's move on to the presentations of our presidency to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly For membership discharged from Samsun MP Erhan Usta in the Turkish Group of Parliamentary Co-operation of the Black Sea, the Membership of Cemal Enginyurt is submitted to the information of the General Assembly, reported under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, according to Article 2 of the Law. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of the delegation consisting of TBMM Foreign Commission President and İstanbul MP Volcan Bozır, NATO-PA Turkish Delegation Chairman and Rize MP Osman Loved Bak, İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Çeviköz, Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin and Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın was made to visit our country on 16 January 2019 and 11 November 2019, the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Council of Foreign Relations Committee of Turkey to visit our country on 16 November 2018 and 7th of the Portuguese Parliament's Foreign Commission to visit our country, the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Parliament on 26 October 26th and the Parliament of Turkey's Parliament, and the Council of Foreign Affairs Committee of Turkey's Parliament, and the Parliament's Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs Committee of Turkey's Parliament, and its Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs Committee on July 18 October 18th, and the Council of Turkey's Parliament of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs Committee of Turkey's Parliament, and its Council of Foreign Affairs Committee of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs Committee of Foreign Affairs Committee of Foreign Affairs Committee of Turkey's Parliament, and its Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Parliament, and its Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Parliament. The visit to the United States is presented on the basis of the 10th Article of Law 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Commission for Foreign Relations of the Senegal National Assembly, the Commission for Foreign Relations of the Portuguese Parliament, the Committee for National Security and Foreign Policy of the Iranian Parliament, the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Defence Commission and the Committee of the Bulgarian National Assembly for Foreign Affairs of the Turkish Parliament. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The TBM Foreign Commission delegations carried out their visits to Estonia, Russia, Serbia, Romania, Montenegro, Sudan and Tunisia, according to Article 3620 of Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Çokkar, İstanbul MP İsmail Özdemir, Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin, Karabük MP Mehmet Gütmansur, İstanbul MP İstým Özdağ; İstanbul MP Üşım Özkır, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Çunkar, İstanbul MP Yunus, Kayseri MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin; İstanbul MP Balıkır, İstanbul MP Atilla Özük, İstanbul MP Mustafa Çakır, İstanbul MP Çakır, İstanbul MP İsakın Bey Bey, İstanbul MP Şeşısısıpün Bey, İstanbul MP Şeşısısısısısı Bey Bey Bey, İstanbul MP Şeçı Bey Bey Bey Bey, İstanbul MP İsın Beysısı Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey, İstanbul Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey, İstanbul MP İser Beysısılı, İstanbul MP Şeçısımılı, İstanbul MP Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Beyı, İstanbul MP Gül Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Beyılı, İstanbul MP Şelı, İstanbul MP Şelı, İstanbul Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Beysıpıpılı, İstanbul MP Gül Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Bey Yıldız Bey Bey Bey Beyçılı, İstanbul MP Seçı, İstanbul MP. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, Mr. Tanju Özcan was elected mayor of Bolu in the local administration elections held on 31 March 2019. I'm having the MP read the article that he submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under Article 17 of the Law on the election of Mahalli Administrations and Neighborhood Chairs and Old People's Committees. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 31 March 2019, I was elected mayor of Bolu Province in the general election of local administrations. There's an example of me being elected mayor. "The legislature cannot be merged with the municipality's presidency, the mayor's general assembly and the membership of a member of the city's council and a member of a member of the municipality, which is part of the 17th Article of the Law on Neighborhoods and the Elections of the Elders. Those who have been selected from one of these tasks will use their choice rights within 15 days from the time the election results were announced to them. I would like to inform you that I have taken office as mayor of the municipality by preferring the mayoral office under the terms of their provisions, as of 10/04/2019. Members of parliament, in response to this choice, Mr. Tanju Özcan (D.A.) has ended on its own, in line with previous practices, when Mr. Tanju Özcan has chosen the mayor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three other statements. I'll have it read separately and put it to your votes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Romanian Parliament and the Council of the European Union (EU) will hold a parliamentary conference on the future of the EU in Bucharest, Romania's capital, on April 2, 2019, under the Parliamentary dimension of the Romanian presidency. The issue of accession to the conference is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly "The World Trade Organization for Parliaments will be organised by the Regional Trade Act for the Parliamentary Organization (CEECAC) on 27-29 May 2019 by the World Trade Organization (CEECAC) for the Central and Central European, Central Asia and Caucasian parliamentarians in Vienna, Austria. The issue of accession to the study is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm having the other thesis read. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Foreign Commission, Mr. Volcano Bozır and the head of the Russian Federation's State Duary International Affairs Commission, Mr. Leonid E. In response to Slutskiy's invitation, he is scheduled to attend the Turkey-Russian-Iran Parliaments' Trilateral Meeting in Moscow, Russia, on April 9-11, 2019. Its participation in this meeting is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are in favor of a countermeasure. Dear lawmakers, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have you read it and vote for it. At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday 18/4/2019 (today), the following proposals have been approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The Vice President of the Good Party Group The agenda of the General Assembly's 18/4/2019 (Today) merger is "to continue to work until negotiations are completed with the General Assembly of the President; Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 99th anniversary and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day (Honour Day) will take place on a special agenda at the General Assembly on Tuesday (April 23rd 2019). The meeting at 00 p.m. will be held within ten minutes to the heads of the political party group represented by the Turkish Grand National Assembly; also to one member of the political party's representatives, whose group is not in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to be promised not to meet for more than three minutes, and to not discuss any other issues in this merger, It's recommended. Thank you. I submit the counsel board's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. It's over, dear friends. As a matter of fact, I'd like to congratulate you all again with great courtesy for attending this session. We've all missed each other, hopefully, in the coming weeks, more time, we'll be running our coven. Dear MPs, it is the 99th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day will be announced on Tuesday (April 23rd 2019). I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish you all a good day.
