tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'd like to make a few statements. Our Plan and Budget Commission adopted the budget for 2020 and its final account for 2018 from 24 October to 29 November. Our General Assembly will end its talks today, which began on Monday, December 9th. We have come to this day, day and night for 11 days, with the intense zeal of our deputies, members of the Commission, ministers and fellow officials. After our closing talks today, I will submit the budget and the final account to the General Assembly's vote. Members of parliament, as you know, this year is the 100th year of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our Parliament, in which national sovereignty is unconditional, has established, developed, and brought the republic to this day in the most difficult of the War of Salvation. Our Parliament, working for the prosperous future of our nation, has been the sole solution to national issues, and will continue to be. The opinion and proposals from all of our parties, especially in the process of budget negotiations, follow with great interest and interest in our beloved nation. I have full faith that the meeting and work we have had under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which has been granted by the will of the nation, will continue with great maturity, as it has been so far. On April 16, 2017, June 24, the constitutional amendment adopted by our people came into effect and changed our government system. This budget is the second budget of the new government system, but it is the first budget in the new government system to be prepared according to its basics. I believe the new government system will be established in time and stronger with improvements. I want to thank all of our Parliamentary Speakers, members of the Court, members of our Group, MPs, ministers and bureaucrats, all of our Parliamentary employees, all of their efforts, all of their hard work, all of their efforts. With these thoughts, I hope the central management budget talks of 2020 will be good for our nation and our state. We're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Computation Act will be the final talks on all of its bids. Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, at the end of the budget talks, the decision will be made to the political party groups and, in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, 60 minutes to conduct their views at will. These times can be used by more than one speaker. In accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code, it has been decided that personal conversations in favor and against should be ten minutes. It's for your information. Now, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: On behalf of the People's Party Party Group, İstanbul MP Mustafa Kalaycı and İstanbul MP Mr. İsmail Faruk Aksu; on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Deputy Chairs Mersin MP Mr. Fatma Suran and İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç; İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. İlhan Kesici; on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; on behalf of the Group Chairman and Ankara MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı and Malatya MP Mr. Bünt Tufekci and Kopeli MP Mr. Fibi Iİllur; on behalf of the İstanbul Group of İstanbul MP İİPARTİ PARTİ Group; İstanbul MP İlhan Betüçoğlu; on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group; on behalf of Justice and Development Party Party Group of Development Party members of Ankara MP Mehmet Durvat. On behalf of him, he's in favor of the leader of the Grand Unity Party and Mr. Mustafa Destici, Ankara MP. Vice President Fuat Oktay on behalf of the executive. On behalf of his personal behalf, Deputy Group President and Mr. Engin Ozkoc of Sakarya. I will also promise five minutes each to political party representatives represented by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who are not represented by a group, as a precedent, because it is seen by my side and because it is met by groups. In this scope, I will make a promise to Mr. Erkan Baş, MP of Turkey's Labour Party and to Mr. Abdulkadir Karaduman of the Party of Saadet, Chairman of the Democratic Party and MP of Afyonkarahisar, Mr. Gültekin Uysal of the Turkish Workers' Party and Mr. Mustafa Destici of the Ankara MP. Now, the first word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0002par0031	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions on behalf of the valuable MPs, the Central Management Budget Proposal of 2020, and the Central Management Act of 2018. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation who are watching us in front of their screens. First of all, I wish that the Memorial Week of Mehmet Akif Ersoy, which covers December 20th and 27th, should be a blessing, the manifesto of our independence, the expression of our national existence, the Instigative Anthem, the author of our national anthem, the writer of our national poet, mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. The budget is a law authorising the executive body to be allowed and authorized by the legislative body, which requires monitoring and monitoring whether the permit and authority are being used in accordance with legislation and budget. The Court is a constitutional institution that contributes to the control duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to the use of budgetary rights. There are numerous findings in the Court audit reports on the final accounts of public administrations in 2018. A significant number of these findings appear to be included in reports from earlier years. The Court's recommendations in the audit reports must be obeyed. Applyings that undermine budgetary rights should not be challenged, such as extracurricular grant transfers and overfund expenses. In the presidential government system, the necessary regulation must be made to discuss the exact accounts and Court audit reports, as in many countries, in order to be discussed by a separate commission to be formed. Dear lawmakers, both the region in which we live and the global floor and border lines where our region is jointd have been boiling for a long time. We're dealing with a world painting that's complex, chaotic, and that's also where traditional relationship and alliance understandings are beginning to wear off and melt. The international order that was established after World War II has been in every sense of descent. The doors to the new world order are open to chaos and chaos. Global instability is deepening from day to day. The arms race has gained speed. There's been an outbreak of terrorism and indecency. Ethnic, religious, religious, religious sensibilities have been provoked, bloody terrorist organizations have emerged as new partners in the developed and powerful sovereign states; they are spreading persecution with the insatiable appetite of global imperialism. The division and division fights, the polarization of power and sovereignty, are hardened and tied to the series. The world table we're looking at is on an alarm level. Global justice, international law, humanity's conscience, human rights and democracy have suffered fatal injuries. Humanity is in a deep spiral of unrest. A little right, a little democracy, a little freedom, more oil in the face of the innocent and the oppressed, more wealth, more fame, more power-seeking imperialist countries are one of the only causes of human disasters. Another, perhaps the most effective cause, is faith-based. Looking at the global conflict map today, the main artery of crises and tensions can be seen very clearly, especially with Turkish and Islamic geography. It is urgent for mankind to meet in absolute common mind and develop honest, lasting, and constructive relations among countries to see mankind drifting towards a hot war under heavy polarization. There's gotta be something we can do. The phenomenon of globalization, which is increasingly brutal, must be humanized, injustice reduced, and international solidarity increased. Humanity must meet around common sense and global conscience. The leader of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Garden, has made this especially clear before the local elections, and has said that the United Nations failed to do so, that the Peace of Humanity Project should develop world nations and intellectuals. Mr. President has commissioned the National Movement Party RD unit on the Peace of Humanity Project to work and prepare for a commission of competent and trained scientists and experts in its fields. We believe that a world ideal for all humanity to live in peace and happiness can be achieved by building a new civilization based in Turkey; history is a witness to that. The leader country's country is the expression of an approach based on the history of the Turkish nation, which takes the moral foundation from our high religion, and the cultural foundations from our ancient values, and embraces the future. We know and believe that at the beginning of the century that we left, Turkey will surely and soon reach its country of Turkey, the same spirit, determination, and excitement that led by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear lawmakers, when we read and interpret the geography that we live on with historical consciousness, it is also possible that we can take root from the past to the present, and make a meaningful analysis of the effects and distribution fields of the growing outbreak of hostility. I'd like to point out that the essence of aggressive development is anger, anger, and hatred for Turkish and Islamic values. From the first Crusade, which has lasted nine centuries between civilizations and religions, it shows the existence of a reckoning that has never ceased to exist. Turkey's potential to become the leader of Islamic countries is always blocked, and our country's front is blocked by internal and external blockades. How Islamic societies live in justice, peace and stability is known to every human with a mind, a conscience, and an understanding of what times of history this has come to be. Fear is the repeat of history. To that end, Turkey is wanted to be stopped. The imperialist countries, which oppose every value of Islam, are resorting to all roads and dirty methods so that Turkey's word will not be broken in the region. As Turkey questions its role and makes independent decisions, it faces new problems in chains. One of the reasons for guardianship pressures, political and economic impositions, perhaps most importantly, is for us. Turkey, whose voice is heard more in regional and global relations networks, is more intrinsic, more intrinsic, and, of course, frightening to certain environments. It is known to every conscientious person in recent years that a violent operation has been carried out one step at a time in order to intercept our country. The focus that aims to take over Turkey is that they have started an unnamed war to deal with both behind the desk and through their tongs. Political plots, travel park provocations, ditch terrorism, riot attempts, attempted coup attempt, terrorist actions, the attempt to create a terrorist corridor across our southern borders, economic attacks have been poorly projected and driven into the stage. On the night of July 15, 2016, Turkey attempted to invade the coup. Of course, the price of this treasonous attempt has been too high for terrorists and their supporters. The Turkish nation is again guiding its own destiny, drawing the direction of the future with will and wisdom. On 16 April 2017, our nation adopted a constitutional amendment to the adoption of the presidency's government system. The flaws and shortcomings of the new system and the parliamentary system have been eliminated, and our national support is tied to even more solid foundations. The presidential government system is the most appropriate system for Turkish state tradition. Strong state, strong government and democratic stability are the main backbone of the new system. With the presidential government system, national unity and unity have been confirmed in a very strong way, an enormous front of war against domestic and foreign altars, terrorism, terrorist organizations, and domestic and foreign supporters. An important and great success has been achieved in the fight against terrorism. As the claw blows to the nesting sites of the terrorists descend, as operations grow breaker, it will be inevitable that the villains who plan on Turkey in and across the country and across the border will be completely destroyed by the will of Allah. With the Firat Shield, the Olive branch, the Fountain of Peace, and Operation Claws, the centuries-old terror state project has been thrown away. The games of those who tried to eliminate Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean have been corrupted by the control of the agreement signed with Libya. Turkey has also stood firm against the biggest economic attacks in its history, neutralising attempts to destroy our economy with speculative attacks. During this process, the presidential government system is the main force and the strength of our national position. Terrorist organisations, economic pressures, threat of sanctions, political games, diplomatic blackmail will not bring the Turkish nation back from its rightful cause. The presidential government system, which is the Republic's own creation, is a guarantee against the insurance, hostility and treason of our nation. Neither Turkey nor Turkey is the old world. The Cumhur Alliance has come to grips with consciousness, grasping the facts of Turkey and the world. The Cumhur Alliance is the historic reconciliation of the Turkish nation, the guarantee of our future and future, a blessed resurrection and a move to rise. Our love is Turkey. The Cumhur Alliance is working for the construction of Turkey, the leading country. We believe that in the spirit of national unity and solidarity with the strong governance of the presidential government system, our root values will basically carry on the ancient and holy march of the Turkish nation. The Cumhur Alliance is the harbinger of the Turkish seal that will be hit on the world with the will to capture its goal to overcome the troubled civilization, the Turkish state and the Turkish nation forever. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, as I have just stated, our country has been subjected to economic siege along with the low-failing coup attempt and terrorist attacks on July 15th. As a result of these attacks, the financial fluctuations that began with the rise in foreign currency have caused many chain effects from interest to inflation, from economic to increased unemployment. Those who say that these attacks are not a factor in economic problems are not sincere and honest at once. Those who try to instill pessimism in the economy from politics are more interested in envelopes than in mazuf. There's nothing we haven't experienced in recent years. Turkey has been subjected to multiple attacks. First of all, it is a moral and conscientious obligation for everyone to take a national stance in the face of attacks targeting our country, a minimum of patriotism. It is clear that these attacks have led to long-term uncertainty, damage to the environment of trust and stability, and have put a significant cost on the Turkish economy. I'm asking if there's any investment in a country where there's been a coup attempt, terrorist incidents, bombs go off in their cities. Not even tourists, let alone investments. This has always happened. All attacks have been neutralized, praise be to God. Economic terrorists have also been repelled, the exchange rate has dropped dry and interest due to proper measures, and inflation has dropped. Turkey's economy grew by 0.9% in the third quarter of 2019 after a narrowing of three quarters. A 0.5% growth is expected in 2019. Just seven or eight months ago, IMF, the World Bank and the European Union Commission and international credit rating agencies agreed there would be positive growth in their latest reports, saying the Turkish economy would be significantly smaller in 2019. (AK PARTY) They also raised our country's growth projections of 2020 and 2021. Turkey also reports reports that the economy has recovered faster than expected and that Turkey has left a difficult economic period. Economic indicators give us hope for the next term. Starting in August 2018, industrial production increased by 3.4 per cent in September this year and 3.8 per cent in October. There is also a significant increase in security for the economy. The firm and decisive struggle of the economy administration yielded results. The literature of his destruction is futile. The macroeconomic indicators are improving. The unemployment issue will surely be overcome. As it is known, streets have been provoked in our region and in the world lately, polarizations have been raised. Demonstrations that start on the streets with different demands in various countries have been transformed into a destructive state to serve a political purpose rather than a known cause. Turkey is also the target country of very dangerous, barbaric scenarios. We are aware of the subtlety of those who are simple, malfunctioning, and unofficially understanding to push Turkey into this abyss. Let us overthrow political power, no matter what, if Turkey is going to sink. Those who say, "If Turkey is going to sink," have crossed their minds, had their eyes covered with hatred, had no principles, moral rules, a common point of view, and work like a demolition team have been carefully fulfilled. There are irresponsible groups who seek help from the streets in the pursuit of non-democracy. Every incident in our country, every negativity, social and economic dissatisfaction has been observed. The Turkish nation, however, is a discreet, noble and noble nation. (MHP and AK PARTY) Our nation, who are aware of dirty accounts, dark scenarios, does not take advantage of perception operations. Those who intend to get Syria out of Turkey, turn Turkey into Iraq, move Bolivia to Turkey must not forget for a moment that they will pay the price very dearly. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to share our views and suggestions on the demands of some economic goals and social groups. It is estimated that the primary indicator of the 5 per cent growth targeted in 2020 will be domestic demand. Private consumption is expected to be the highest contributor to growth with the support of the delayed demand, credit and trust channel. In order for domestic demand to increase at the desired level, it must not be forgotten that the delayed demand will not only be sufficient, that the burden of debt may prevent the demand from growing sufficiently, so that income should be increased. More production, more exports, more jobs and more revenues need more investments. The production economy, which envisions continuing investment, production and employment, must be built quickly. Turkey's economy has structural problems. Given the external risks in the coming period, on the one hand, strict monetary policy and effective finance policies have been implemented, but on the other hand, it is important that structural measures, such as production, savings, tax, labour markets, education and agriculture, be carried out with great seriousness. Turkey is still experiencing a technological transformation, but its national innovation system still looks like a country that is stuck in medium high-rises and low-tech technology, which is struggling to produce high-end products, so remains in the production and export of high-tech products. As targeted in the programme, increasing production and export of high-end products is of great importance, reducing dependency on imports through domesticization. Public support should be used at a global level to create competitive production structures that are capable of RD and innovation, capital structures that are strong, maximum benefit from the scale economy. In 2020, the budget deficit is estimated to be around 139 billion liras. The implementation of budget targets is undoubtedly directly related to the implementation of 5 per cent growth goals. In addition, public spending and tax reform are needed to achieve its budget deficit goals. An effective public administration and business department should prevent waste of resources, and work to create a sense of austerity in the entire community, starting with the state. A fair, laid-back tax reform must be carried out immediately. Tax and SGK premium incentives should be evaluated together with all economic and social effects, and the incentives given should be reviewed and the ineffective ones removed gradually. Off the record is an important problem. More effective methods in fighting off-book economics and non-registered employment should be adopted, new measures aimed at enhancing transition to the registered economy. Tax control should be more important, the fight against trafficking and black money should be more effective. In addition, lowering foreign currency dependence is important for budget balance, and facilitating depth in capital markets and opening to the public can provide new resources for the budget. Dear lawmakers, the SMEs are the engine of the Turkish economy, with numbers and employment they provide, production and added value. COBIs should be supported to produce high quality goods and services, invested in RD and encouraged to employ researchers, branding, institutionalization, and development of innovative business models. Because of economic difficulties, our trade and profession, our business manager, faces serious problems. The following loan debt of the COBI is 9.6 per cent, and is nearly twice the overall average. TO meet the need for financing of SMEs and tradesmen, take measures to address debt shortages, reduce taxes and premiums, and implement new programmes to boost the market, boost competitiveness. The AVM and the large market chain opening a branch in the center of the city, which puts the tradesman and artist in danger of being destroyed, should be bound by rules that will not break the terms of fair competition. Our tradesman has a legitimate demand for resolving inequality in his social security system. The tradesman's bonus must be equal in the number of days and pensions. The time worked as a tradesman in the past should be considered a service without prior registration or registration requirements, and past services should be allowed to be borrowed. Apprentices and internships should also be counted from the service, which should be based on the starting date of insurance. Our farmer is in a difficult position because of the increasing input costs, with the increase in the rate and the increase in revenue. They need to be able to get the manufacturer's basic inputs cheaply. Agricultural support should be determined and implemented with an understanding that increases productivity, reduces input costs, maintains the balance of production cost and product price, increases efficiency. Five per cent of our farmer's and producer's loans are covered by $5.2 billion. In my district of choice, our farmers suffer from execution practices.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0003par0062	Mr. Tin Man, just a second... Dear friends, there's a big hum. Please, let's not talk in the General Assembly Hall, let's keep the peace. We can't hear the Hatibi's voice. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0004par0065	The execution practices against the farmer and the manufacturer must be halted, allowing them to pay their debts to the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Co-operatives. A powerful plant production industry is possible with a strong seeding industry. Therefore, the seeding sector must be supported more in Turkey to strengthen agriculture. For producers to gain more and consumers to consume cheaper food, agricultural producers must be provided with the shortest chain to the market. Electric bills have become an important cost pen. If the farmer's energy costs are not reduced, there will be a rapid escape from the watery agriculture in the Inner Anatolia, in the Inner Anatolia, in the Iconium, which will reduce the country's production and increase imports. For electricity used in agriculture, lower tariffs must be determined. In six counties, electricity support for the farmer must be given to the Inner Anatolian farmer as well. In addition, electricity bills must be collected by billing after the harvest. Essentially, the tax, funds, shares of electricity bills, and the cost of missing fugitives and counter-reading costs, should be reviewed and lightened the burden of farmers, industrialists, tradesmen and families. Dear lawmakers, there is a need for reforms in the labour market and working life. A labour market should be created where all parts of society are offered jobs worthy of people, where the quality of the labor force is improved, and the quality of the workforce is improved, and the conditions for occupational health and work safety are used effectively. Work life should be discussed within the framework of policies that take into account the balanced protection of workers and employers' rights. Education must be planned, vocational education must be strengthened, a social welfare system that does not deter employment should be established, and union rights should be adjusted to modern norms. The net minimum wage must be set above the hunger limit and the minimum wage must be provided with transportation support in major cities. The minimum wage must not be taxed and the minimum wage of employees must be taxed. The workers, tradesmen and farmers' pensions will be increased by an inflation rate of six months earlier in January and July 2020. Officers' salaries and pensions will be increased by 4 per cent in January and July 2020, plus the difference in past six months of inflation will be added. After years of service, it is one of the key and priority tasks of the state to ensure that our pensioners live a life that is worthy of their honor without worry about living. The inequality between pensions must be met, pensions should be paid without growth, and some participation in health services should not be taken from pensioners. It is our duty as states and nations to take care of our veterans and the trusts of our martyrs and to give them the proper level of life in society. A monthly commitment to the parents of martyrs and veterans must be increased, no less than the net amount of minimum wage for each of them. All children of martyrs must be given jobs. Our veterans should be given second jobs. In recent days, 227 of our gases have been cut due to the fact that their disability pension has been tied up. Our veterans must be relieved of their disability, and our veterans, who suffer from disability, should be given the right to retire in three, six hundred days. In the fight against terrorism, the veterans must also be allowed to buy a vehicle without an OTV. Korea and Cyprus should all be awarded the same amount of honor, medals, and other rights, regardless of the income and employment of our veterans. Our veterans, who have shown great heroism in the fight against terror, should be awarded a veteran's medal first. They need to be able to maintain their lives without need of anyone, especially in health care. Dear lawmakers, I will finally express our views on our young people's KYK loans. Mr. President, after the budget negotiations, we'll put him on the table and take a step in favor of our students. The National Movement Party also says that the interest of our young people's KYK student loans should be erased and payable ease. I hope our opinions and constructive proposals will be met during budget negotiations, and I wish that the budget of 2020 will be good for our country and our nation. The National Movement Party says we support the budget, and I pay my respects to you and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0005par0078	Thank you. The second statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to İstanbul MP Mr. İsmail Faruk Aksu. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0006par0083	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on behalf of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law and the 2018 Central Management Computation Act Proposal on the entire bill. I salute you and our humble citizens who are watching us on their screens. I wish that the 2020 budget, which began in the Plan and Budget Commission on October 24th and has continued for 58 days, would contribute to our nation's presence, prosperity, Turkey's goal to become a leading country. At the beginning of my speech, I remember Mehmet Akif Ersoy, our national poet, author of our 146th birthday march, and the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, all of our founding heroes, the power and justice of the Turk, and our beloved martyrs, with mercy and gratitude. I salute all of our heroic security forces, who are currently on national watch, fighting terrorism, on behalf of the National Movement Party, and pray that they be their beloved and helpers from the Lord of the Rights. Dear lawmakers, in the 161st article of the Constitution, the costs of public administrations will be made with annual budgets, and the costs of income and expenditures are guaranteed by law for our citizens. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey shall determine the institutions that will do so, while allowing the budget law to carry out revenues and spending, and also oversees and determines the revenue and costs of public administrations through the Court under Article 160 of the Constitution. The main goal of economic and social policies is to improve social well-being. To make this possible, it is also important that the resources available are distributed fairly through the budget as well as increased. Therefore, the budget occupys an important place in both the country's administration and the nation's life. Because the orphan, the unemployed, the student, the worker, the officer, the pensioner, the farmer, the businessman, the industrialist, in short, each of our citizens have a share in the budget. Therefore, on behalf of the beloved Turkish nation, whose representative we are, we expect that in every step of the budget, from resource allocation to implementation, it will act on this fact. Dear lawmakers, the budget proposal is seen to be in line with the goals set in the Central Future Program, covering 2020-2022. While budget revenues and expense projections were being made, it was based on the targets of the Central Future Program in 2020, where the GDP would grow by 5 per cent and the export would be 8.5 per cent, while export would be at $190 billion and import would be at 231 billion. In 2020, central management budget revenue was intended to be $956.6 billion and expenditures were intended to be $1 trillion 95.5 billion. As a result of the estimated and predicted spending scale, the budget deficit was estimated to rise from $138.9 billion in 2019 to $138.9 billion, while the GDP was estimated to be 2.9 per cent. In 2019, the need for debt by the public sector, expected to be 3.2 per cent compared to national income, is expected to fall to 3 per cent in 2020 and to 2.6 per cent at the end of the programme period. In this way, the medium-term sustainable growth goal is expected to happen without compromise from fiscal discipline. Tax revenues are expected to increase by 17.5 per cent to $784.6 billion, while tax revenues are expected to increase to 16.1 per cent in domestic revenues. According to our constitution, the fair and balanced distribution of the tax burden is the social purpose of finance policy. Although taxing and prevention of unregisteredness is the basis of tax justice, the tax system still has important problems to address in this regard. In addition to the priorities related to public financing in tax-related arrangements, the effects of taxes on production and employment and social aspects must be assessed together. We believe that a simple, open, low-profile, fair - rated tax revenues will also be expected to increase, according to the financial power of everyone to pay taxes on a fair tax system. A public mobilisation must be launched in the fight against unregisteredness, including public enterprises, private sectors and professions. Co-operation and coordination between institutions must be strengthened in order to combat illegal revenues and black money activities. Turkey has an obligation to invest more resources in order to achieve its development goals. In order for high-profile investments to be made, savings rates must be increased, especially in public. As is known, public savings are also important in budget discipline. However, the composition of savings is important, and instead of investments, a public savings is required. The budget we have discussed has been earmarked for $64.9 billion for total investment expenses, including $56.6 billion in capital costs. According to this, the share of investment funds in the budget has been reduced to 5.9 per cent, while the GDP is reduced to 1.3 per cent. Our expectation is that the economy will improve and increase resources, as well as increase the share that will be made for investments. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are located at a strategic crossroads in the middle of Eurasia, a region of competition and conflict between global forces. On the one hand, the EU and the United States -- Russia and China -- have global influence or a desire to be -- are causing problems in many parts of the world that will shake up all mankind in order to protect their interests. Sometimes commercial ambitions, sometimes political ambitions cause the world to have new crises every day. In addition to geopolitical tensions, the increase in uncertainty towards the future of international economic and commercial co-operation has negatively affected investor security and global trade developments. As a result, the global trade volume has slowed, along with the trade wars, following the slowdown in economic activity that began in 2018. On the other hand, some developments that ignore human and moral values show that universally accepted values and concepts have lost meaning rather than being a tool; good and evil are mixed with right and wrong. The attempts to invade democracy, the support of bloody terrorist organizations, the silence of persecutions and human dramas are just some of them. On the other hand, the suffering of children dying on the path of hunger, thirst, and migration is not enough in public, especially in the consciences of developed countries. In particular, dramas from internal conflicts and power wars in Islamic geography do not end. Turkey strives and contributes to the well-being of humanity with its human diplomacy, as well as to the tragedies in which international institutions and developed countries have become blind and deaf. As a matter of fact, it is not a coincidence that Turkey is the first in humanitarian aid in the world and has managed to enter the United Nations' very high category of human development with 2018 data. However, a new one of the extensive protests and street actions is witnessed every day in different parts of the world. Global instability is deepening day by day, causing economic and social problems, mass inflation, under the dynamics of social protests, political accounts and external impacts are not overlooked. Many of these developments have been making a threat to our rights to sovereignty in Turkey's geopolitical impact, and have taken a close interest in our country. This turbulent course of action in the international system is undoubtedly responsible for Turkey's ability to be a strong state and a leading country in its region. There have been significant developments in our country as this happened on a global scale. In the beginning, of course, Turkey is expected to encounter one of the greatest betrayals in its history on July 15, 2016, to be invaded and to be struck by democracy. Following that, the PKK/YPG in co-existence with PKK/YPG, the DEAS terrorist groups increased their actions, faced mass migration in Syria due to internal conflicts and instability, and came to the Syrian country of nearly 4 million. In August 2018, Turkey was asked to conduct a political operation on a non-named economic war, based on courtship and interest. The effort to destabilise the country through the economy is undoubtedly an important aspect of the Beka issue. When it comes to national support, our country's economic power, resources, and resources should of course be kept under close focus. There is no doubt that our country has had some economic problems. It is evident that structural reforms are needed in some areas of the economy. As a result, the government, in its timely steps, stopped the economic attacks, and then revealed the program to repair the destruction. However, it will not serve our country's economy, nor its national unity, to interpret the smallest negatives in the economy as a new sign of a crisis, to try to turn the already difficult social populations into the engine and combat force of political collisions. It is, of course, the country's national unity that contributes to its guidance, solutions, and proposals. However, in order for the country to sink from agitation, the focus of drumming, zurnaling prophecies must always be prepared and alert to foreign ruins, where they are angage. Because with the chaos and turmoil in our region, the threats against Turkey have not been cut off. However, after the adoption of the presidency's government system, harmonisation arrangements have been made, institutions have been restructured, the new management system in the democratic process has been activated without problems. In the general elections of the president, parliament and local governments, our citizens have demonstrated their democratic preferences. Turkey has not allowed terror corridors to be created in its territory by carrying out Operation Firat Shield, Olive Dalli, Claw and Peace Fountains. The agreements signed with the United States and Russia as part of the safe zone talks have been an important achievement in which Turkey's thesis has been accepted. The fight against terrorism is being carried out effectively, especially towards the PKK and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Turkey has also succeeded in signing the world's largest projects in the process. These developments in and out represent a period in which Turkey struggles with almost seven duvets. On the one hand, terrorist organisations have made it necessary for Turkey to be military, political and economically alert. Therefore, as the National Movement Party assesses the 2020 Year Budget Proposal, our basic principle is to consider the heavy responsibility Turkey has imposed on our country, along with the economic, financial and social policies. Dear lawmakers are important to show the aim of budgetary budgets in what direction and for what purposes they are being used. As far as the budget is concerned over the years, education, health care, social security, social benefits, economic support and incentives show a stable increase. According to the economic classification of the 2020 budget, 24.1 per cent of the costs are staff costs and 43.2 per cent are current transfers. Cari transfers are nine-six percent domestic, while staff costs are 5.8 per cent. The percentage of education is 16.1 per cent; the GDP rate is 3.6 per cent. The health share is 17.7 per cent; the GDP is 3.9 per cent. The social spending share rose from 1.6 per cent in 2003 to 6.3 per cent. Turkey has divided more and more into health, social security and social support payments, including education, and farmers, tradesmen and industry incentives. In light of these data, it is understood that Turkey has prioritized the principle of fighting poverty and social justice in the allocation of funds and supports production. On the other hand, even though our problems haven't ended, the following policies have also achieved significant success in the economy. As a matter of fact, the current macroeconomic indicators point to this. From August 2018, decisions made in its place and time have been made to ensure the economic recovery of Turkey without a major break. As of October 2019, the consumer price index, which fell back to 8.55 per cent, took place at 10.56 per cent in November. In the third quarter of 2019, our economy grew by 0.9 per cent, with a marked improvement in financial conditions and a decline in inflation, and again after three quarters of a positive acceleration. Industrial production increased 3.2 per cent monthly in September; 3.8 per cent in October; 3.4 per cent year-on-year. At the same time, the capacity use rate across the manufacturing industry increased by 0.8 points in November compared to the previous month at 77.2%. The Economic Trust Index was raised to 91.3 · Global Voices in November. Cari operations have increased to $1 billion,549 million in October, up to $4 billion,336 million in 12 months. Exports have reached high levels of imports. However, the unemployment rate has not yet dropped to expected levels, although the periodal difference has shown. As of September 2019, unemployment was 13.8%. Depending on the positive trend in production in the third quarter, unemployment has decreased slightly from the previous month, and young unemployment has declined by 1.3%. However, the still high level of unemployment may be possible to be reduced by employment incentive policies, along with growth in the economy. Dear lawmakers, these data also show that with the recovery of the economy, the production wheels began to rotate, while financial discipline was not ignored, and confidence in the economy grew. International economic organisations have revised global growth prospects in a negative way, while Turkey has revised its growth and other macroeconomic projections for Turkey in a positive way. However, the periodic difficulties in Turkey's economy have affected our most narrow-income citizens, making life conditions difficult for them. In the first place, measures and supports that will enable all segments of society to improve and meet the prospect of greater prosperity, such as workers, farmers, civil servants, pensioners, tradesmen, and small and fixed incomes. In parallel with the recovery of the economy, in the coming period, it is imperative that our public employees meet the demand for 3600 additional indicators, increase the income level of our pensions; lowering the cost of our farmers, trades and industry's inputs, and promoting production simultaneously, a healthy investment, production, production, employment and export chain should be put into action. It is our party's strategic goal to prepare all the necessary conditions for our country to become a powerful state with a voice and a reputation for international relations. Turkey has to move on with its own geopolitical memory, determined to disrupt global games in order to maintain its claim, to have a say in the economic, social and political developments surrounding it. For this, Turkey must be a screenwriter, director, and leading director of decisions in accordance with the national interests, not the implementation of regional and global projects set forth by others. As a matter of fact, Turkey today has become an important actor of regional and global developments. The presidency has increased its deterrent by making more effective decisions with the government system, strengthening its ability to deal with enormous problems and resist global challenges. At the same time, the cleanup of state institutions such as octopuses has pave the way for public policy's debate and execution, particularly the fight against terrorism. The process of decontamination of the state with all its elements and accountability before the Turkish judiciary continues within the law. However, it is imperative that the political institution be cleared of this disease, and in this case, it will be possible to ensure that the fight is fully met on the public conscience and to increase confidence in the fight. Mr. President, valued MPs, as the Nationalist Movement Party, we view Turkish nationalism and democracy as twin brothers, basing the moral foundation of our nationalism on the principle of life and life. Therefore, we are based on a development based on economic growth, social development, and national integration, based on the principle of freeness, happy nation, and strong state, not on a system of people who are neither full or hungry or free in development. Our zeal and expectations are that our people are happy, peaceful, and more hopeful than the future; a stronger and stronger Turkey together with its state, its country, its nation, and its wholeness. No matter where he lives in our country, we see that high-standard public services are accessible in the interests of every citizen as a requirement of equality and justice. In our election statement, we predict an increase in social prosperity and peace with an understanding of governance that protects the principles of equality, morality and justice that put people at the center of economic policy. We see the need for justice and efficiency in the distribution of resources and for public service production, and for the creation of a predictable, stable and reliable environment in law norms, taxation and bureaucratic transactions; for the domestic and foreign investor, a fully institutional investment environment. In this direction, we see that in seven fundamental areas, the implementation of reformal structural measures along with short-term emergency measures is important to ensure permanent stability in the economy. These are reforms related to increasing production and reducing import dependency, increasing domestic savings and investments, fighting tax, spending, fair division of income and poverty, agriculture and animalism, labour market and working life. In addition, we predict that everyone should participate in production and receive a fair share of the value they produce, provided that those in need are supported by the state, according to the principle of the social state. We want our country to implement a production economy that considers its natural and human resources with its own opportunities and conditions, thus increasing Turkish brand products in the world. We feel it is imperative that the methods of production based on science, scientific thought, innovation, and technology be brought to a competitive level. We consider the position of the woman and the family institution to be strengthened, to be more involved in women's development and decision-making mechanisms -- if it comes from who -- to prevent all violence and abuse against women and children as the most important indicators of development. We care about implementing rural development policies that will ensure agricultural integration, reduce regional growth differences and contribute to the prevention of migration. We find it necessary for our farmer, our tradesman and artist to be supported, for each family to have sufficient and continuous income, not to be affected by the negatives of economic conditions, which are the pillars of the social structure. Dear lawmakers, we believe that Turkey will be a leading country and a global force that can achieve its goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071 if Turkey eliminates risks and threats imposed by regional and global development, assesses opportunities and opportunities, activates national resources. For this, it would be enough to meet in the common denominator of the Turkish nation to focus our energy on the construction of Turkey's blessed future, to make Turkey a competitive country. With that awareness, we'll always keep the state and the nation ahead of everything else. We will strive for the peace and prosperity of our holy nation; we will strive for the head, the head, the belly, and the happy tomorrow. We will continue to follow our commitments, opinions, and suggestions regarding the problems of our citizen. We won't be involved in anything that's not in the best interest of the nation. If so, we will resolve the practical setbacks, and we will strive for the radicalisation of the presidential government system. We will move Turkey into the future with the strong union of the Cumhur Alliance to ensure the future of those who covet Turkey's future is nullified. We will continue to be the voice of the national conscience, the voice of the national conscience, the warning, and the warning that we will always claim national identity and national presence, that our state will be troubled and our nation will be disappointed. With these ideas, I wish that the 2020 and the 2020 budget of our country and the 2020 budget of our nation would be a blessing for our country and our nation, as well as for the announcement of the Mysakimilli, and the opening of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As the Nationalist Movement Party, I salute you worthy members of the High Assembly, saying that we will vote for both the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the entire 2018 Central Management Accounting Law Proposal.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0007par0118	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first statement belongs to Deputy Group Chairman and Mersin MP Mr. Fatma Surkan. Here you are, Mr. Survivor. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0008par0123	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. The most important thing that determines the state-society relationship is whether the administration is fair. In a country ruled by justice, the state is also the guarantor of society's ability to maintain its own existence with confidence. Society only accepts the state knowing that it is not superior to itself and that it exists to serve it. In this interaction, it is the constitution that acts as a uniter. The public's trust in the state depends on a strong, democratic, inclusive constitution, for the state to continue its existence over all the values and rights of society. The state is shaped by a sound constitution. If a political man knows his authority by this sound constitution and its limits, that country will be strong; that society will live equally, freely, fairly. Otherwise, there will be no end to equality, justice, freedom, rights, appeals, and even the constitutions that are in effect will not be implemented. Turkey's history is one of the best examples of this, with a lot of constitutional and change to be given as an example. The current social crisis may best be explained on this issue. Dear friends, the 1921 Constitution, which was adopted during the founding years of the Republic of Turkey, along with the resolution of Ottomans in the early 1900s, is an important and historic turning point. The spirit of the 1921 Constitution was the key to the survival of Kurds and Turks in Asia Minor and Mesopotamia; the existence of Kurds was adopted by this constitution, with which ethnic emphasis did not include the name of the state. The Turkish state aims to implement an administrative system where Kurds can govern themselves. 14 articles of the 23 articles of the Constitution have been divided into Turkey's administrative system. The departments formed in administrative units were given autonomy, aimed at public self-management, or direct democracy. The 1st article of the Amasian protocols of October 20-22, 1919 begins in the form of the Turkish and Kurds, which is considered and accepted by the Ottoman State. These protocols also strongly stressed that Kurds have the rights to social and traditional rights in order to make free, free development. Not only that, there are Kurds within this border as well as Turks in the First Assembly, which met on April 23, 1920. These elements have always respected each other's rights. During the 1921 Constitutional Talks, Mustafa Kemal used the concept of Turkey's people, pointing to common destiny and interest during his speech to the Grand National Assembly. If the 1921 Constitution were to be implemented in the history of Turkey, there could be a historical foundation for people in this country to live together, the foundations of strong local government could be established, a number of regulations and the relationship between central and locals could be transformed into a legitimate commitment, and then, in reality, Kurdish and Turkish brotherhood could be mentioned. However, as did not take place, at the first opportunity, promising materials were removed at once. 21 souls, based on the fateful union of Turks and Kurds in the common country, were abandoned, and that fateful unity was ignored as opposed to one of the parties. In particular, the denialist, monotheist, has been blocked by the transition to the Constitution of 1924, including pluralism, progressiveism, development, decentralisation. Legal, administrative and hard-actual practices that ignored Kurds and rights were initiated. This is how the Kurds, who saw their existence destroyed, began to insist on continuing appeals and claims today. The destruction policy, which began with the Koğgiri, continued with Zilan Creek, filled with corpses, and continued with Deresi, which drowned in the caves where the bones appeared every step of the way. Mr. President, since 1924, the state's mind has responded to the Kurds' rights demand with the policies of genocide, denial, destruction and assimilation. The answer not only to Kurds, but to all different beliefs, cultures and ethnic differences has always been the same throughout Turkey's history. IDs, languages, beliefs were rejected; singled out; founding partnership was ignored. Instead of a democratic, pluralist nation, the country has been paid a hundred years of economic, political, social, cultural consequences. Sadly, this mind is still alive, choosing to ignore these differences during its establishment. This mind thinks it can solve the Kurdish issue by military means for over a century. Every power that comes in is coming to an end. It means that those who say it are leaving, and the problem remains. The concept of transferring a historical, political, social, cultural problem out of the field of political solutions to military security bureaucracy gives the country a political transfer due to its unresolvedness. The basis of all the crises we face today is the Kurdish problem and the lack of resolution of the democracy problem. However, the democratic solution to this issue will bring the solution to all problems. The first step in understanding the spirit of the Kurdish problem, which is now an international issue, should be to act in that direction. The constitutional recognition of Kurdish people and all identities, the existence of beliefs, is a requirement of pluralistic democracy. And what we need today is to understand this very essence, to go back to this foundation, to solve a hundred years of problems with this method. An understanding that denies it only makes the people who deny their identity suffer, not the people who deny their identity, but the whole society. Remember, the Kurdish problem will eventually create its own deal and find its solution; there is no escape. Between 1993 and 2003, nine times, the ruling representatives of the period contacted PKK leaders and sought solutions, creating conditions for the declaration of a truce. Attempts to try the path to peace have arisen many times, even in the current power period. Today's ruling came to power with the promise of resolving this problem, a process between 2013 and 15 took place. At the time, Turkey took a comfortable breath, hoping that there would be no conflict and that the issue would be resolved peacefully. The funerals didn't come, the mothers' tears stopped, and the spending pens that were reserved for war, defence, and security fell heavily. Although Kurds and all those who insisted on a peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem continued to insist on peace, despite the fact that power has not taken a step towards the legalisation of education, cultural rights in the main language, administrative and political reforms, the release of 650 sick prisoners in prisons. Prime Minister Erdogan said at the group meeting of his party's party that had passed through the parliament's early reports, that the Kurdistan had passed by; those who fear words, concepts; those who fear the taboos that he invented, the nightmares that he created, can't build a great state. To summon the government to keep its promise, the government went out to the fields with its rallies, with its castle protests, but those who came to power did nothing but strengthen its power and raise its allies. From the moment he realized that he had lost the vote, the government toppled the solution table; the Kurdish issue returned to military and security methods. While Roboski was still fresh in memory, people were burned alive in the basements of Cizre; hundreds of thousands of people in dozens of settlements were displaced; cities were flattened with tanks and cannons. Today, the curfew is four years and eighteen days; it's still going on. When we warned him, the ear was blocked. Today, 251 people died in the July 15 coup, which still needs to be exposed, even the report of the research commission, was not released to the public. The AKP, who boasted that during the election period, had removed the State of Emergency. The AKP took over the legislation, executive and judiciary along with its own OHL regime; the army, police, media, and capital organizations became an arm of power; the process of liquidating democratic social opposition has begun. Congressmans, I'm afraid we're going through the days when the right to choose and be elected has been tried to eliminate the right to democratic politics. Our party's former co-chairs, lawmakers, executives, co-chairs, members, employees, almost half of them are in prisons. Democratic politics is trying to be captured within four walls. The government, which has arrested our co-Chairs and lawmakers for almost revenge, is making unprecedented decisions. The courts that are trying to judge our party today are the AKP courts, not the courts, but the AKP courts. Instead of making an effort to find out who is responsible for the murder of the ruling, Suruç, Diyarbakır, Ankara, Tahir Elçi, he has broken the records of the trial; he fills his prisons with HDPs and opponents. The same judgment is to keep the facts out of the public's eyes. It turns off newspapers, televisions, radios and places journalists in a prison. In such a period, when the Constitution is suspended, local governments are being seized as if they were being hit by a political coup. The government makes it a tradition to take over by appointing trustees that it can't win by choice. As of September 2016, 94 municipalities were seized by this power. The trustees are being carried out as successors of the Shark Islamic Plan, public inspectors and the State of Emergency. The AKP is systematically monitoring and implementing its own policy. One bite, one cardigan, the power of those who have made it into a fashion of luxury and waste, will not be affordable enough to take over the municipalities of the people. Those who ignore any warning the public gives in the polls continue to seize the will of the Kurdish people without shame, even of the flashy displays in our cities where they confiscated it. The irregularities, corruption that have been reflected in the Court reports have become such that trustees appear as the local feet of the corruption and bribery system on December 17th-25th. On the morning of April 1st of March 31st, the mayors of our 31 municipalities were relieved of their right to choose from 19 August, so about 4 million people were elected. Even as we are having this conversation, our Sur Mayor Filiz Buluttekin's house has been raided and taken into custody. And he went into the house, and laid down his wife, and his ten-year-old son, and put a gun to their heads. Once again, those who react when we say "Kurdish hostility" say: This is Kurdish hostility. We brand the Kurdish enemy on your forehead. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The six co-hosts we nominated and there was no problem running by the YSK were elected by our friends, and they were stripped of their right to be elected. The SEC was clearly set up. Not one of our ex-husbands has been charged with their duties in the municipalities. Almost all of them have been punished for expressing their opinions with HDP identities and for disturbing the power of the HDP (HDP). Which one of you is lawless: even the fact that women co-chairs attended their own nominations' promotional meeting was considered a crime. It was considered a crime to say that Layla Güven, who was on hunger strike for two hundred days, was on hunger strike. For municipalities converted to police stations, the authorities have been turned into police stations. Even breathing is a crime. Even with nuclear weapons, our co-chairs, who were released just a few days ago from their first trial, were arrested as if they were being ridiculed by the public. More than that, he was suspended by false accusations, confidential witness statements. The city council wasn't even allowed to choose for itself. The governors of the state, the overlords, stood before the will of the people, and this Parliament simply followed. The trustees may have taken over those city buildings, but they'll never get the will of the people, they'll never get the will of the people. Those trustees are the trustees of the buildings, and our people's will is standing up, and in the first elections, the trustee will give the most powerful answer to the mind. The appointment of trustees is also an attack on our co-chair system, women's will, equal representation of women and gains. This government is clearly afraid of women's will, women's strength, women's rising struggle as the end of their own power, so it insists on anti-female policies. No matter what you do, we women will never give up our struggle or our co-chair system. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We will continue to say not only one man, but many people, not one president, but co-chair. Members of parliament, not only remain inside, but also outside the border, the policies of the anti-Kurdish understanding continue to manifest. We launch two rockets from the other side of the border and create a cause for war. The mindset, which says, aims at the lives and democratic future of the peoples in northern and eastern Syria, opens again into the darkness of ISIS. Those who oppose the barbaric gangs in front of the world, their settlements are handed over to the remnants of the barbaric gangs. The head of these gangs, Bağdadi, made it from Turkey's 12 observation points to the territory where the gangs were located, where he was killed only three miles from the border. They're still in Afrin, Idlib. Serekaniya and Gire Spi, who had not even come across the border with a pebble, were again occupied to be handed over to the remnants of this gang. Bombs were dropped on civilians; women, children, old people, those who fled the invasion were torn apart by air bombs. In Rojava, he was subjected to the attack of violent gangs, which were all built together by Kurds, Arabs, Armenians, Sunnis, Christians, Ezidis. Hundreds of thousands of people had to leave their places, their own land. This plan of attack, which aims to change the demographic structure, is unfortunately losing to all peoples of Syria and the Middle East and to the peoples of Turkey. In the northeastern Syria, the mentality that allowed the people to starve with the bullet account made people subject to weapons of war. While the allies were filling their pockets over the war, we were asked to call the invasion of the northeast Syria, to call the war, to stop the war, but we will continue to shout out the truth and fight the war. When we say that the problems in Syria must be solved within the Syrian borders by the will of the Syrian people, power continues to design Syria in any way it wants with a pirated army, becoming part of the gang's crimes of humanity. The millions of dollars, including ISIS and Al Qaeda, are still on the people's back. Mr. President, not just today, but for years, the public's budget has been spent on security policies and war. For years, the solution to problems that have made society squirm is not seen as a necessity by political authorities. However, Parliament has been stripped of its authority to intervene. Especially with parliament being dysfunctional, it's almost like people's money isn't being spent on the public. See, the budget is one of the main causes of the parliamentary regimes. One of the main tasks of the House is to ensure that the public's money returns as a public service. We were sent by the people to this Parliament to serve this purpose. But the budget that we're talking about today has been made more of a service to the palace than to the interests of the people, serving to fill the capital's pockets. No changes were made in the budget pencils that the parliamentarians talked about for weeks. The large share of the public budget passed on to security policies and war is prevented from being spent on education, health, prosperity, freedom, justice, women, agriculture, workers, EYTίli, students. Because this budget was prepared at the palace in a process far from Parliament and control; it was placed in front of the House to be approved, as a notary. More importantly, budgetary rights have been removed from being an event that meets the public's basic sensitivities, expectations of the rulers. Especially the inequality in the budget is at a much worse point for women. Like in every field, there's no woman's name on the budget. Women are killed every day in the street. Women's murders are an embodiment of women's struggles, public space, and even life-saving policies. Killing her turned out to be a hero. That's what this budget supports. Every day, at least one woman was killed, the budget pencils were not arranged in favour of women; the average five workers lost their lives in work killings with no understanding of budgets, workers and workers; we were at the end of our training; the cost of health spending was ignored; the farmer's money for debt was ignored; he also ignored the loss of unemployment; he also ignored the fact that people chose mass deaths because they could not get along. It's clear that every penny that doesn't go to all these pens is going to put us in an inextricable spiral. While the public commits mass suicide because they can't get along, the public budget is spent on war and security policies within the border and off-limits. Congressmans, in this country, for years, Kurds have been trying to prove that the Armenians are dead, that the Alevis are a belief, that women exist, that workers are exploited, that nature has as much right as man. It's impossible to ignore these facts anymore. Under this roof, we can't solve this problem by pretending that there are no Turkish, Kurdish, Armenian, Ezidi, Suryani, Arab, Laz, ethnic people in this land. When we have Alevi, Sunni, Christian representatives under the roof of this House, we cannot ignore that there are people of these faiths in this land. We can't maintain a mind that sees people as one, in government, in rule as one. The methods and methods that will keep the peoples together, make them live together, are very different from policies that have been practiced and ineffective for centuries. You can't make identities one way, you can't consume democratic pluralism, you have to understand that now. The first step is to face history, history with determination. It is possible to save Turkey from the spiral of these crises by insisting on confrontation and democratic solutions. This confrontation should begin right here under the roof of this House. This Parliament must place its equal citizenship in its place as an indispensable condition, a code of justice and freedom. We need to solve this huge problem not with U.S., Russia and outside forces, but with dialogue channels within ourselves. Of course, the most important condition is a democratic, liberal constitution. With such a constitution, the borders of power are drawn, power is supervised, basic human rights can be secured. Society urgently needs a new constitution. All the dynamics of society agree that such a Constitution will be made. The resolution of the country's democracy crisis is a peaceful solution that is strengthened by equality in the Kurdish problem, a justice-enhanced, peaceful solution that the public expects of us. We call it ▪ Because the people have no expectations of power. For all of us, we have to be pioneers in order to establish an ecological, animal-friendly constitution that can be inclusive for all, protecting rights and freedoms, prioritizing pluralist democratic local governments and a powerful parliamentary system, recognizing the co-chair at every level of government, protecting the woman, protecting the woman. We strive to ensure that the process of preparing the environment and conditions of the democratic constitutional work we have been conducting as HDP has been successful. On November 20th, we issued this declaration with a broad-accessed meeting in Ankara. "Hodri square." We called on power to the early election because this power has already reached its term and has become a humpback on the back of society. The majority of the community no longer accepts this trustee mentality. It is no longer possible for this government, which is united around anti-women's enmity and opposition, to continue its existence without harming society. We will continue to build peace in the Kurdish issue against insistence in the war, while we will continue to insist on the public budget against the war. We don't accept this budget because there's no women's budget, there's no workers' budget, there's no young people, there's no student budget, there's no farmer, there's no worker's budget, there's no YIT budget. We don't accept the budget of those who try to cloud poverty with war. We don't accept the budget of those who don't see the state of the public when their people are starving. We don't accept this budget because we're against the policies that killed Mother Taybet, the anniversary of her death yesterday. We don't accept the budget because we were opposed to the manifestation of the mindset yesterday, the anniversary of the death and the operation to return to life in which 32 people lost their lives. We don't accept the budget because we're against the fear of a new Maras massacre every day. A few days later, we don't accept this budget because we haven't forgotten the fact that 34 people were killed by the F-16. Even though democracy, freedom and the struggle for peace are between four walls, I salute you all, once again, on behalf of our fellow travelers, especially Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, we have not accepted this budget.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0009par0159	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0010par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0009par0161	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0010par0162	Mr. President, the speaker has been picking on us like the AK PARTY is aggressive, as we fear words and concepts. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0009par0163	Mr. Turan, let's do this at the end of the talks on behalf of the groups; let's wait, we have another speaker.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0010par0164	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0009par0166	The second statement on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Group Deputy President and İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. Here you go, Mr. Oluç. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0011par0170	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my party to make the closing statement of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I'd like to address some of the reasons why we're going to vote no on this prepared budget. In discussing the 2019 budget in this Parliament last year, we criticised macroeconomic predictions that were not true. As we speak now about the budget budget of 2020, it has become clear that all predictions such as budget deficits, growth rates, unemployment numbers and inflation have severe deviations. Perhaps at the end of next year, if this economy of power continues with its concept of domestic and foreign policy, we will see and speak together that there will still be severe prediction deviations. The 2020 budget is also a harbinger of poverty, unemployment, cost of life, increases, continued corruption, new conflict and war moves. This is actually a crisis budget. I'm not just talking about an economic crisis, it's a document of the political and social crisis. This budget of power is actually a document of the loss of democratic legitimacy. This budget creates security problems for the community and exposes everyone to power's public engineering. Society engineering, as you know, is to press charges before you become capable, to melt society and people into one basket; to make everyone look like yourself, to trap everyone in the identity you want, to try to make them homogeneous and the same; to force the whole community to think and act under the ideology of the Justice and Development Party. But you'll see, Turkey will not accept this community's engineering, it certainly won't find strong support in society. Mr. President, during all budget debates, the sum of the discussions we've had in both the Plan and Budget Commission and the General Assembly, on the one hand, is a criticism of the results of the multi-layer crisis, which you call the presidency government system, and the multi-layer crisis created by which we call for a new social contract to win democracy. Of course, this call is primarily intended for all social and political opposition against power, but it is also intended to alert the ruling bloc. It's clear that the only man's regime has gone outside the legitimacy office, without democratic legitimacy. In the face of social polarization, discrimination, tension, crisis and pressure, failures in domestic and foreign policy, the ruling bloc producing war and conflict, the desire to achieve social reconciliation and social peace is strong and has full democratic legitimacy. We always say that during the Justice and Development Party's rule, Turkey was in a severe democratic crisis. It is not possible to say that the split of forces has been eliminated and the forces have been united in one person, that the balance control has not been carried out, that the judiciary is not independent and neutral, that every decision has been made by one person, that the allegations of corruption against power have not been investigated, that there is no freedom of the press, that all opposition voices have been suppressed, that education has been cut out of science, that every individual institution in which the universities have been put into power, that every autonomous institution is bound to run, that the state has been partyed, that there is no equality of women-men, that there is no equality, that freedoms can only be used in the lines drawn for those in favor of political power. This is an absolute state of power creation. It's a government understanding that the citizen is only considered voters and taxpayers. This understanding produces an empire of fear and evil - the solidarity of the oppressed against official ideology. The clear view of Turkey's authoritarianisation is that the execution is overpowered on every plane. It's an inevitable necessity to be restricted to prevent authoritarianisation and to ensure democratisation. Turkey must be presented with a democratic struggle and project that will inspire and reassure Turkey's release from this democracy crisis. A democracy move that people can feel inside and embrace can block this regime of oppression and create a democratic change. The Justice and Development Party is polarizing society to maintain its power, creating an unrealistic world of perception, such as that it can be surrounded by domestic and external enemies in society by a emasculating nationalism that can only be defeated by an authoritarian leader. You're here on charges of changing the status quo, you've created a new status quo, you look like the old system, and that's the situation today, unfortunately. In February 28th, even country kebabists were considered internal enemies, and you invented potatoes, onions, and economic terrorists. All opponents began to be perceived and described as internal enemies. We're going through a process of power that can't survive without war and conflict, without creating tensions and polarization; Afrin, north and east Syria, and now the eastern Mediterranean. Internal Affairs stirs the interior, Foreign Affairs stirs the outside, Treasury and Finance mixes the economy; so, you've become a parsing and mixing party. The state has become a party, so opposition to power is regarded as anti-government, and it is justified to impose unauthorized sanctions on those who oppose it. We're going through a period when the governors' Justice and Development Party head, judges work as a member of the Justice and Development Party's legal office, tenders become a commercial oligarchy to deliver to the address. Politics must be a leading goal in Turkey to be removed from this axis and placed on the axis of peace and pluralism. Mr. President, lawmakers, we know you're uncomfortable talking about the facts, but the problems we're dealing with are not personal problems, they're social problems. Even if it hurts, you have to listen. We say listen and reflect. Your folks in the neighborhood are saying what we're saying today, but you don't want to hear it. Your anxiety and anger is because you see that the ability to maintain a single man's regime is shrinking, and social, political opposition is experiencing a rise in morale and self-esteem. The success of social and political opposition, which has a democratic stance in the face of one man's regime, will come to a meaningful conclusion only if it is aimed at regaining democracy. The fact that the government is stubborn in a line that eliminates democratic legitimacy, its determination to use all the state devices and institutions it has acquired for its own benefit also increases the importance of social and political opposition brought together on the basis of universal democracy and legal principles. The change and transformation of one man's regime is only possible with a real democracy based on social justice. So the pluralist is today's basic need for a democratic republic that is based on the rule of law, on human rights and freedom, on the basis of citizen's rights and democratic participation, to lift central custody over local governments, to strengthen and secure democracy with judicial independence and press freedom. For a true democracy, a participating democracy is needed. Participants are the subjects of democracy. The public should become the main actor of politics, not to be a passive audience who votes once every five years and then watches what happens in the political scene. There must be a channel to peace, democracy, justice. When you say "channel," don't think about Canal Istanbul; the channel I'm talking about is the channel of democracy and justice which the Istanbul people opened on 31 March and 23 June. I'd like to briefly mention the elements of this in nine articles. First: economic crisis needs economic justice and peace to overcome. Today, all the world's public research shows that the public's first and second problem is the cost of life and unemployment. Although it does not accept power, overcoming the current economic crisis is the most basic expectation. There is no way out of this economic crisis that makes the country and its people poorer than the government does when it comes to short-incomes, paid employees, laborers, laborers, businesses, small manufacturers, farmers, new indirect taxes, and you add the interests of capital. What needs to be done is a production-enhancing plan and a public justice, a fair division. A single man's regime looting the country's resources for its own interests, and arming and war spending with spreading imaginations, is the way to exit social peace policies in the face of the economy, which is being developed on military-substantiated complexes. Second: The new Ottomanist must be given up on understanding. The military intervention of power in Syria and Libya and the adventurous policies in the Eastern Mediterranean are the elements of a spreading foreign policy, and Turkey faces a heavy refugee issue, international tensions, heavy arms and war spending. These policies will pray in the House Mosque. The understanding, the historical shallowness of the strategic depth, the zero question with our neighbours. The fact that it has arrived at zero neighbors, and the understanding of our neighbor's plagues, poses great problems for the country. For foreign policy, there is now a Turkey that is setting up a game. In fact, there is a Turkey that falls into its own game, not the one that builds a game, but the one that becomes the enforcer of the games created by global forces. The government is setting up the real game for the citizens of this country. You're playing a game against the citizens of this country in order to pay the heavy cost of the wrong foreign policy, with taxes, with the power of the electorate, with the people's taxes being pursued by supporters, by destroying nature. War at home and jihanda must be abandoned at once, as well as at home and at home and at jihanda polarization, at home and at home and at jihanda. Turkey can only set an example for its neighbours with a strong democracy and economy. That is the basis of strong and healthy relationships, and it should be, not military power and threat policies. Strong democracy is about upholding the principles of universal democracy and law. Strong, stable, and healthy relations with Europe can strengthen democracy. Third: Equal and free citizenship must be taken on the basis of strong local democracy for the solution to the Kurdish problem. His culture, his native language, his existence, his existence, his denial, his assimilation, his Kurdish people, open a place for him in a hundred years of struggle, where he says, "I'm here." He says, "We exist. Let's live together in a democratic environment under equal conditions." This shows that he will also resist the mentality and structures that are trying to destroy, close, where he opens at great cost. You do not have the right to violate the rights of millions of Kurdish citizens, their law, their presence, their will, their mother tongue. This attitude and call are very clear. This is also an offer of equality and democracy. It is not possible to ignore the Kurdish problem and to govern Turkey, to develop and democratize it. As the Republic's history has shown, the suppression methods do not eliminate the problem, but they debunk and divide the whole country and relations. In accordance with universal law, the Kurdish problem is both possible and has to take steps to resolve through negotiations on the respect of culture, native language and identity, on the basis of equal citizenship and strengthening local democracy. To that end, our invitation and proposal to this Parliament and parties in Parliament is clear. Let's set up a commission where all parties will be equal to take steps to resolve this historical problem: let's discuss, negotiate, talk about what steps are being taken, let's take steps for social peace and social reconciliation, let's work on the construction of a democratic republic under the roof of parliament. Let's stress once again that we consider our call to be evaluated and the initiative of this House an inevitable historical responsibility. Talking, negotiating, developing dialogue is a way out. We don't have any problems that we can't talk to and we shouldn't. The right to live in peace is a basic human right. Peace is the prerequisite for the fulfillment of all human rights. No human rights, especially the right to live, are guaranteed in a society without peace and reconciliation, and in the country. Peace is also a culture based on public dialogue, mutual understanding, negotiation. Turkey needs an environment to end conflict culture, to grow peace culture, to end war policies, to ensure social reconciliation. Citizens have the right to demand peace from the state, and we are determined to exercise it. Peace also means the destruction of causes of war and conflict. The establishment of a democratic and just order to strengthen the will of life together is only between the equal and free dialogue. Fourth: pluralism is the antidote to the majority that destroys democracy. The pluralism principle is the most fundamental element of democracy. The pluralism, recognition of different identities and cultures, opening up room for public differences and allowing individuals to live equally with their differences. The idea of equality in a pluralistic society is an understanding of equality that accepts differences, not ignoring differences. Differentities need recognition and constitutional security. The Union cannot be provided with a single identity that assimilated all different identities. Respect for different identities provides and strengthens voluntary unity. It's possible for communities with different identities to live together with strong communication between them. The goal of communication is not to force each other to change, but to get to know each other and accept each other. Participation is indispensable to a democratic society to balance the execution. When we say participation, you call it trustees. You're violating the local government and the voter's will. In order for a participating democracy to take place, a decentralisation reform is needed in Turkey, a redefined central-local relationship. We must be given more effectively according to the principle of rightness, and the people must participate in the decision-making process. When you say, "You are appointing governors and trustees from the centre." You're increasing the suppressive custody of the center. The trustee is someone who has been appointed to take care of other people's affairs. So it's a clear understanding that seizes the will, mortgages it. Where you appoint trustees, the will of the Kurdish people is ignored. You can seize city buildings, yes; you can raid public resources; you can create auction champions; yes; you can give the orphans, the poor, the snacks, the tape, the presents, yes, but you can never be permanent, you can never control the will of a people. You will not be able to enter the Kurdish people's hearts with this attitude, you will not get the approval of the Kurdish people, it is clear. A powerful parliamentary system that rises over a powerful local democracy leads to sharing the power to run a system, which unfortunately does not exist in the system you created. The fifth: the indispensable principle of democracy is freedom of religion and conscience and strengthening secularism. It is a serious social problem for citizens to be discriminated against by their different beliefs, not to feel secure and peaceful. The Alevi community and the Christians are very concerned and are right. The state must apply constitutional security to different beliefs and cultures by staying at equal distance from all religious identities. Giving special support to one of the believers -- which is the case of the Dianetite today -- eliminates the assurance of freedom of faith. Turkey's diversity of beliefs and peoples is corroded by ruling policies and has been divided among the peoples. For public peace to be achieved, the first step is to ensure equality and freedom in the areas of faith, worship, language, and culture. In this context, all faith centers must be granted legal status without delay. The sixth: discrimination and violence against women must end. Segregation for social sex must be eliminated, social gender equality must be achieved in all areas, so men and women must have equal rights. To end violence against women, obligations related to the Istanbul Convention, which Turkey was the first signator of, must be met. An ideological opposing approach to co-chair and equal representation is used to maintain male sovereignty over women. The co-chair system is equal representation of women who make up half of society. Not with quotas, but with equal representation, women can have their own problems, and they can prevent men from ruling. The seventh is that the state of law must be restructured, the neutrality and independence of the judiciary. The need for fair trial and defence in today's Turkey, where faith in justice is shaken and trust in justice in society is incredibly low. The law, which is the basis of justice, has always been problematic in Turkey. But military intervention and finally, the one-man regime has completely rendered the law dysfunctional. Judgment has become completely dependent, biased and political. He's cut them off from universal law. The rule of law has been replaced by the law of the superior. Look, there were 10,000 detentions and arrests as a result of legal scandals during the time you called it parallel structure. During this period, said to have been terminated, around 5,000 judges and prosecutors have been discharged from office during the last four years, about 10,000 of our party members have been taken into custody and nearly 10,000 others have been arrested. The ways of those who built the parallel structure have been permanent, and that's a sad situation, as a matter of fact. If justice is corrupted in a country, that country has been carved out. No one can save a nation whose justice has fallen. He says, Yasar Kemal. In your steps, you are no longer an institution that can oversee judicial, legislative and executive procedures. To distribute justice, the judiciary must be impartial and independent, the structure of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors must be changed, ensured against the pressures and direction of political power, and only the merit of appointments must be measured. 8th: It is imperative that the form of governance be made democratic and parliamentary. Democracy is certainly not the one-hand and one-on-one gathering of different forces, such as power, legislation, and judgment. The current freakic system, which single-handedly takes all power and makes it impossible to control, makes the balance control mechanisms dysfunctional, raises Turkey's problems. The right of the public to free information, to choose without constraints, to be elected and to control power must be saved from all kinds of guardianship institutions. It's essential for pluralistic democracy to prevent power condensation, to ensure that power is shared. This is the only way to develop a social compromise. It is today's need to strengthen Parliamentary democracy with the principle of governance. Dear Regents, a broad-based social contract must be made. The solution to all these fundamental problems is directly linked to the Constitutional issue, which has become heavier in the process of building a single man's regime. Turkey needs a constitution based on the rule of law, which guarantees participation and pluralist parliamentary democracy, separation of forces, balance and control mechanisms, democratic local governments. The instrument of a new democracy project is a new constitution. Without a new constitution, it is impossible to implement a democratic Turkey. The first step requires a social contract. With the contribution of all political parties and civil society, a process where all communities can participate will pave the way for democratisation. Before a new constitution, it is important to reach an agreement on a declaration of principles for a transition period. The new constitution should ensure that everyone will have equal citizenship rights to different identities, culture, native language; education, health, health and work safety; that the state is neutral and respectful to everyone's faith and lifestyle; that violence towards women ends; that historical and natural beings, other living things, and cities are protected; that the rule of law, universal law and social state. Once again, we call upon all our peoples: it is certain that today's regime will not bring democracy, justice, peace and freedom to our peoples. Democratic politics, solidarity, the cooperation of social and political opposition is the way out of this system. It's our call to all those who favor labour, democracy, freedom, justice, equality: let's all fight for democracy and justice. As victims of the politics and practices of this government, there are many of us, and we are getting stronger every day. Our call is for us to grow stronger and grow stronger. To take breath into our peoples who are forced to eat badly, who are forced to eat badly, who are forced to eat badly, to breathe to our people who are forced to fight unemployment; to cut down a fair tax system and wastes to increase the income of the poor; to end job killings, to prevent unemployment and non-registered labor; to remove all forms of labor; to remove all forms of unsecured labor; to prevent war, waste and governance; to reduce the burden of the economic crisis -- to prevent the people who are forced to eat badly; to divide the bread, to divide, to create a fair tax system and waste -- to increase the revenues of the poor; to ensure that women's lives, to end their jobs, to ensure their work, to avoid unemployment and unregreglustrial work; to prevent all kinds of work; to protect them; to prevent all kinds of violence; to protect them from war, to protect them, to prevent them, to prevent them, to prevent them from the risk of violence, to prevent them, to prevent them, to protect them from the risk of violence, to protect them, to protect them, to protect them, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to create war, to protect them, to protect them, to protect them, to protect them, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to create, to protect them, to protect their lives, to protect their sins, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to create, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to create, to create, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to create, to create, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to create, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to protect their lives, to The power has weakened and is gone. We are self-safe and moral. We are determined to stand side by side with our people everywhere, side by side, and expand our democratic political struggle; we are determined to continue our fight for peace, justice, freedom, equality. That's how we're gonna keep going. The stronger we are and together, the more we share our struggle, the faster this power will change. I salute you all, including our peoples who follow us. I say we all go our separate ways.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0012par0201	Thank you. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0013par0203	Mr. President, there are some statements by the speakers -- I'm saying it with the two of them -- that our group has committed. I've told them, if you'd like to answer for him.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0012par0204	Let's get you out of the way, shall we? You'll be more comfortable.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0013par0205	The bullying has come from the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0014par0206	It's longer than it's supposed to be, give it to me from the podium, Mr. President. He talks for ten minutes. It's yours, of course.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0015par0208	No, not for ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0014par0210	Ah, it's five past four.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0016par0213	Mr. Engin, welcome. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I tried to follow the two speakers of HDP. I would like to emphasize a few things: one was prepared in the palace, persistently and repeatedly. This was the natural result of this regime. They made such a statement. But we all know that in the parliamentary regime, and in the current system, it's the ability to make budgets. The administration, which was previously held by the Council of Ministers, is being carried out in accordance with the presidential system today. So I think it's a very inappropriate approach. Mr. President, another matter, friends again, no women in the budget. They repeated his statement very often. On the other hand, studies of our women in 81 provinces, particularly our Strategy Document for Enhancing Women's Co-ops are actually in our budget, in many areas, including incentives and support. And I think it's helpful to have this matter reconsidered.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0017par0218	The budget is an AK PARTY budget, not in our budget?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0018par0219	Let's finish, please, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0016par0220	Mr. President, the 60-minute charge wasn't supposed to be answered by a minute, it was supposed to be from the podium.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0018par0221	But if your spokesman is going to speak, there's a part of the answer that can be answered.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0016par0222	Mr. President, there's also no legitimacy to a single man's regime.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0019par0223	The only voter regime.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0016par0224	Look, dear friends, when we use this expression... we're all members of this Parliament, so in fact...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0019par0225	We object.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0016par0226	Ali Candy, you're CHP, you're not HDP, for God's sake! I'm responding to HDP, not CHP.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0019par0227	So we objected to the wrongs of this system.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0020par0228	You've been sending it!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0021par0229	Mr. Turan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0022par0230	Dear friends, for once, not the one-man regime, but the presidential government system. Second of all, if this system is not legitimate, then acting here is not legitimate. The administration and the living are two men who have served by the will of the people, by the choice of the people. Therefore, the law is legitimate, and the execution is legitimate. I think it's a waste of reason, Mr. President, to say that it's not legitimate to be able to do this, just by separating ourselves like this. Other than that, we've discussed the issue of trustees a lot during the budget, but today it's back on the agenda. Look, I'm trying to understand that you can be critical of trustees.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0023par0234	Okay, it's over.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0024par0235	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0022par0236	But we don't find it true, Mr. President, that the will of the Kurdish people was seized while we were critical of trustees. There's a non-Kurdish vote in those crates.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0025par0237	Mercy!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0022par0238	When you go to the polls, are you Kurdish or are you Turkish? We don't discriminate in style. We accept that 82 million is equal citizenship. So we feel that this statement is not true. They also stated that, again, the will of the Kurdish people had brought this will to life, not to the law, but to the AK PARTI. Look, Mr. President, the matter of trusteeship is a constitutional measure.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0026par0241	Wrong!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0027par0242	Not at all!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0028par0243	There are no trustees in the Constitution.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0029par0244	No one wants to be appointed trustee for no reason, but not on any part of the world as a Democrat and a terrorist! You can't be a Democrat and a terrorist! You can't be a representative of the people and you can't be a representative of the Kandil. So I don't think there's anything more natural than the seizure of the administration if there is such a thing. Look, I've got a few examples, and I would have expressed them if you'd given me the right to the bench, but these are the mayor's office...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0030par0247	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0029par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0031par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0030par0250	Finally, please, Mr. Turan. Entering in four minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0032par0251	I told you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0033par0252	Mr. President, I don't want the budget to go like this.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0034par0253	Mr. President, I have numerous files that have become the center of many actions that are not compatible with the mayor's office. So, there's a lot of files to go around the world from layoffs to getting caught taking out terrorists.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0035par0254	It's all lies!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0034par0255	If such a thing exists, of course, the administration will seize it.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0035par0257	Where are the baklava, the peanuts, you tell me about them?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0034par0258	Mr. President, there is no question of Kurds or Turks growing or shrinking. We've lived together in this country for a thousand years. Thus, if Turkey grows, the Kurd will grow, and the Turk will grow. I believe this segregation language is of no use to anyone.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0036par0259	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0034par0260	Besides, the PKK was established in this land not as a tool for Kurds, but as a tool for imperial forces that wanted to prevent Turkey from growing. I think we have the right to expect all parties, all representatives to say and condemn without exception. Besides, in the last ten years... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0037par0264	Mayor, we didn't bleach this hair in the mill!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0038par0265	Right. You said ten, but there's more. So the sum of the arguments is going to be the length of a group's speech.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0039par0267	Mr. President, this is another conversation!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0038par0268	Mr. Turan, please let's finish.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0040par0269	Mr. President, in the past decade, many investments, many services, many equality amendments for the citizens of our entire Turkey have been known to be made for the Kurds. From the end of abuse to the language of Kurdish television, step has been taken in many areas. If this speaker's segregated language is going to continue, we think it's of no use to anyone.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0041par0270	You're going to talk anyway. You don't need a group spokesman, you answer for hours.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0040par0271	If you like Kurds, think of their collars. We say, Mr. President. If you love Kurds, take part in the Diyarbakir Mothers, help people to raise their sons to the mountain. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hereby invite everyone to a more sensitive language, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0042par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0043par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0044par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0042par0278	Wait a minute, slow, slow, one at a time.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0043par0279	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0045par0280	Yes, Ali Sugar...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0046par0281	It was done directly by name.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0047par0282	Dear Sugar, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0048par0284	Mr. President, we've told a story about what will happen when we go to the presidential regime, and everyone knows how much trouble this regime change has caused Turkey -- record unemployment, youth unemployment, lack of employment, and a chaotic period. We were messengers of a time when there was so much unemployment and there was so much bankruptcy, and we said, "There is no stability in this country if the man is given all authority, no one will come and invest." Today morning, a 10-year-old needs to be treated with a gun to the head, and everyone from the MPHP, HDP, AKP, and GOOD PARTI must be disturbed. In this regard, if you are saying something wrong, the CHP will not object. There is no way to accept such an expression. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we say, let there be democracy in this country. Don't race the Peace Mothers and the Mothers of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0049par0289	Thank you. Mr. Survivor...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. The woman's name is not in this budget. We said it once again. Your leader, or rather, I don't believe in the President's equality of men and women. A pressure spiral starting from him has spread throughout the society. In my speech, I also said that we now live in a country where killing a woman is considered a hero. Now women -- all of you think about it, and I really want you to think about it -- the violence of the way they were killed has become more and more brutal. So if you look at the way men kill two women -- especially in the city where I'm acting -- the way they kill Özgecan and his cousin, Cemile {\pos (192,220) }till the bone and the flesh are removed from the bone, it really upsets the human being to say it, but if you look at the way he kills her...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0049par0295	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0051par0296	It upsets all of us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0297	Yeah, everyone who's human is upset about that. We say these are the products of your policies.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0049par0298	Let's not bring up any more discussion, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0299	We think it's the result of you not taking precautions against it. I'll tell you that. Look, you're the one who started in Chile, and you're the only people all over the world who've been attacked by women's protests against women with their dances. You're the one who got women beat up by the police.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0052par0302	Because the women of this country take care of the police.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0303	Don't wave your fingers, ma'am, come out and talk on the stand. Don't wave your fingers, be ashamed! Man, you can't take it when you're picking on me as a woman.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0053par0304	Please, please...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0305	You're defending them instead of supporting them as women, and you're ashamed of them.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0053par0306	Mr. Survivor, let's address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0307	Dear friends, the other, about trustees... look, I gave you an example of this morning's raid on the home of our mayor, Filiz Bulktekin, who is 10 years old with his wife... look, when there's a house raid in Europe, the police are downstairs waiting for little children to leave the house in the elevator.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0053par0309	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0310	If he's going to school, the police will wait until school time, then... so he won't raid in front of the kids.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0054par0311	The children go to the mountain, to the mountain, and you take the children to the mountain.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0053par0312	Mr. Eronat, please...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0313	But your cop is holding a gun to the 10-year-old's head. Oya Eronat is talking from there again.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0055par0315	He's right, he's lying? Of course he's right.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0316	He's got a gun to the head of your 10-year-old and the mayor's wife. Can you explain what this has to do with terrorism? What are you going to do with this? In a moment, you will be joined to Solomon Nobleman, and you will say, "Did this happen to Solomon Nobleman?" You will say, "Did this happen to him?" He will call some MPs from the phone records. He will say, "This did not happen." You will say, "This did not happen to us." Remember, we've said this during budget talks, you can't explain the trustees, you won't.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0055par0318	Remember that Oya Eronat knows best what happened to the children. You know very well what happened to your child, Oya Eronat.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0056par0319	We know very well!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0320	You are in a situation that violates the Constitution and violates the City Law. You'll be judged, you'll pay for it, remember that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I say one last thing, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0057par0323	Here you go. Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0325	Finally, the mothers they call the Diyarbakır mothers are not 38 mothers, but 13 families in Diyarbakır. In the morning the police service takes them, they take them to the Police School in the evenings, they make them stay there, they deliver them in the evenings, they receive lunch from the police, maybe they bring trustees, we don't know, they even pay for them there. The mother of the soldier who was kidnapped by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has a different salary, and the mother of the person who went to the mountain has a different salary. There was an incident, there was a fight, and you know it. In fact, while we were sitting at our door, a mother's child, her child, was killed in a battle in the mountains, and that mother could not find another tent for her child's condolences. That is your role in mothers.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0057par0327	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0050par0328	That's what you call the situation in Diyarbakır where you look at our building with your heads down and how many of our ministers are sitting on your stairs. All this politics of yours isn't going to work out, folks. As we say here in our messages -- pay attention -- this is no time to run from democracy, from justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit01spe0057par0331	Guys, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0057par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to İstanbul MP Ilhan Kesici. Here you go, Mr. Slasher. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0012	Mr. President, I'm here on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the budget bill for 2020 and the final bill for 2018 years. I salute your High Council with the highest respect. At the beginning of my words, I wish the budget of 2020 would bring blessings and blessings to our great state and our beloved nation. Congressmans, the budget for 2020 is the 18th budget of the Justice and Development Party, the EC PARTY. That also means there's a 17-year uninterrupted and solo AK PARTY government. This is the only example of Turkish political history, and there is no other example. Seventeen years, 18 years uninterrupted and alone, I see power as an extraordinary political achievement. Now, in addition to political success, I wonder if there is economic success every 17 years, and if that political success brings economic success with it, I will try to present it. For those of you who know these things, there are a few criteria. First of all, it's more of my number one criteria -- growth speeds. How much has the economy grown yearly in this period of time? Between 2003 and 19 years, the growth rate of the economy in 17 years was 5.3 per cent, with the current, final national income change. The previous series, as of two years ago, was 4.7%. In comparison, I'm based on the date when we went on the multiparty regime, from 1946 to 2002, the average growth rate of the year was 5.1 over the previous series, in the 507 years before the AK PARTY came to power. So when the AK PARTY was compared to the same series, it performed a higher economic performance than that, but in the current series, they were both even. It seems that if one more series of national income has been renewed, if changed, Allauhalem, perhaps the old era of the AK PARTY has passed. I've also submitted this in a manner of making sure that it's in the records of our friends. Now, there were some criteria for one period, especially in 2007 and 2008, called the great economic myth, with national income per capita at the head. So it was said at the time that we tripled the national income per capita, and we tripled the income growth. It started in mid-2006, in 2007, almost until 2014, but at the end of the day, we didn't see any such expression. The reason for this is that these national income levels are represented by two figures per person, and so on; one, they're what we call current prices. I don't want to keep you too busy, but if we don't say this, we won't, so I'm telling you. Cari prices are the price of that day, amenna. But if they're going to have periods and comparisons with each other, the current prices will now be put on a shelf, and they'll be employed at prices we call "serious prices." This is 3.492 dollars per person in 2002 -- and this is $9.247 in 2007. So those who look at it, those who don't know... Now, in fact, we've had friends who use it on the government floor. These friends sometimes became ministers, sometimes Vice Prime Minister in charge of economic affairs, sometimes other ministers, and other ministers outside the Ministry of Economy used them. Unless, of course, friends who don't have enough control over this economic literature use it. So he saw three and nine, and in 2007, at the beginning of 2002, he saw a three-point figure, a three-thousand number, and in 2007, a nine-point figure, he could say, well, we tripled it. But if people who know, people who need to know, use this job like this, it's a shameful thing to do, and I beg your forgiveness. He's probably not kidding himself, but if he needs our people, our government, maybe that's the way it's meant to fool the world, it's not a good thing. If there was a multinational income that's already tripled, where would it be? So there was water, what about water? The cow drank it. What about the cow? He ran to the mountain. What happened to the mountain? Burned, finished, burned to the ground, didn't it? A national income that's tripled like this is not an event to be vaporized, to be seen in the middle. But what happens when you look at fixed prices is that the increase in national income per person from 2002 to 2007 is 31 percent. So one is 300 percent when you say three times, and the other is 31% when you look at a normal, decent calculation. So let's see what's real and what's real. But let's look at what's going on until 2019, again, we don't need to use the current price; in the course of the seventeen years between normal, fixed prices and 2019, the normal income per person has not increased by 90 percent, so it hasn't been one times more. So 100 isn't 200, but it's up 90 percent; it's 0.90. I don't see this performance as a strong performance of national income growth, per capita growth, as a weak performance. Besides, we're also going to look at the cost of these numbers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to now extol our vice president, in fact, for this account. But Mr. Vice President, it is our government's office number two; it has a budget presentation speech with the General Assembly; it has a page 41, if our friends are interested in it -- and on page 41, it says: At the end of 2002, the lowest civil servant's salary, including family benefits, was 392 Turkish liras in December 2002. In 17 years, we raised it to 3,707 Turkish liras as of October 2019, which is 846 percent of the increase. This is the wrong part of the job. So these are both current numbers, as I've just suggested, not comparable numbers. At least the number that comes in here is inflation, to take the fort, to be considered. But if inflation were zero, we could compare these two numbers together, so if we divide it by that, that might be the number. The inflation we've been waiting for this year is about 12 percent, 20-something last year, but the average of 17 years is 11.1 percent. At least this number is 392 -- our friends have cell phones -- and if they run it by 2009, the amount of inflation, that's 2.311 Turkish liras. So we've received 2,311 Turkish liras, and now it's 3,700 liras, and if we divide that by 60 percent, that means that an increase of 846 per cent is out of the question and is out of the question. It's 846 percent, 900 per cent, which is an average 50 per cent increase every 17 years, which we all have to celebrate, we all have to applaud, we all have to play drums. This is a slightly more sophisticated computation: The annual average -- including this family's benefits -- is 2.8 percent increase in the minimum civil servant salary, so if we do a proper calculation, there is a 2.8 percent increase in salary; it's not something to be too proud of. So it's true to say that as a diagnosis, it might be better to increase it a little bit. But with this, we've increased it by 846 percent. Osman Bak Bey just told me -- he's our friend, he's the President of our NATO Parliament Assembly -- and I'm saying it at his request. I've said a Erzurum mouth about such accounts before, and I'd like to express that desire again. We also have this: Ettekraruahsen is good again; Velev kane is hundred and eighty, and it is good to repeat it a hundred and eighty times. It's good in that way. The merchant from Erzurum, of course, our tradesman. When a merchant earns money, he stares at the pilgrimage, the pilgrimage, and Erzurum is in trouble. His accountant did the math -- they just brought him an account that looked like an 846 percent increase -- and he looked at it, and he liked it, and he said, "My virgin, I need a pilgrimage, okay. And now I need a man like me." The truth of the matter, sir, is that it is not so, but it is so. He said then: "My servant, my virgin, needs Zeket." He looked at the wallet, and he needed intelligence. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Now these accounts, they're a little bit like this.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0059par0024	But Erzurum is on a pilgrimage, no problem!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0025	God will accept and grant to those who do not go away. Now, my dear friends, this is what we call a low Kurd, a high interest situation, the backbone of the wrong economic policy, the wrong policy. At one point, there was a lot of talk, and now it's too much to talk about. The low currency, the high interest, is called the hot money that comes after it, so we're going to see that, in 17 years, this is the real thing. Let me give you a concrete example. In this example, there's the Bank's Retirement Fund, which I'm going to make simple -- it can also be found in the Central Bank records, it can also be found in Treasury Undersecretary records, etc. -- and that's what the EC PARTI administration should be saying in their contacts with the whole world, in their story, that this is going to be our policy of courtship, this is going to be our interest policy. It's going to be called the world financial environments -- I don't know what this is, and it's going to be talked about again these days -- these are going to be talked about with these other political factors -- they came to the AKPART government with large economics, and they came up with a simplitude of money, and they came up with a simplification policy. I'll say $100, you take it as $100 million. There's already a $100 million pension fund in those records. He came in with 100 dollars -- the average year of 2003 is 1.49; that's close to $1.5, so I'll take it at 1.4, and I'll be pulling a little bit more strings on the AK PARTY -- he cashed it out, 140 Turkish liras. I'm lowering it a little over 20 per cent, as well as the interest of both deposit bonds, as well as bank deposits, for another 18 per cent, for another reason, I've put it as an 18 per cent bond or deposit interest, as a deposit fee. It reached the middle of 2008, in the middle of 2008, where this 140 lira reached with these interest rates is 320 Turkish liras; it's good money. He divided it into dollars, the price of the dollar at the time was $1.3 dollars; he divided it into 1.3. Let's get back to him, he comes up with $100, he does something, he walks away, it's $2246. Dear lawmakers, beloved lawmakers; that makes an average of 20 per cent on the dollar. In the world, if there are Allahulem and other worlds, there are no such interest rates in those worlds as well as in 2002s, 2003s, 2007s. Stretch this out, and then, I'll stretch it out; that's the essence of the event, which sucks the bone out of the Turkish economy, makes us weak, makes us vulnerable to the tweets. Now, in my mind, our late Finance Minister Kemal Unakitan, who has remained his word now. But I Googled it, I couldn't match it, it didn't match. If what I'm about to say is actually Kemal Unakitan, then it's his word -- I'm just saying it in respect of intellectual property rights -- if it's not like it's not his, I'd like to honor myself with it. He said that after Mr. Unakitan left, the Treasury Department said that these foreigners -- they mean the hot money, the account that looked like the previous account -- they were kissing us twice. They kiss both Turkey on arrival and kiss it on the way out of Turkey; I don't understand how this works. Dear lawmakers, at that time, the AK PARTI economies were the ones who didn't fit in the sky, the ones who feasted on drums, the people who actually did business in Turkey with the high interest account. As a result, it was more appropriate for me to say it in the foreign trade department... because of this low courtship.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0060par0030	Erzurum is from the pilgrimage, Mr. Ilhan.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0031	Yeah. There's something here. I'll come from here to a foreign trade section. Those notes were mixed up, as far as we can remember. It's the foreign trade regime and foreign trade, imports, exports and other foreign currency-producing activities that will make him feel the most about the low rate, foreign trade regime and foreign trade. We have exports and imports. When we had five or six ministers on the economy, for example, when there was a small percentage increase in exports or a seasonal increase in exports, our friends at the minister's level were moaning the ground, we crossed China, we passed the game. So the goose came, and the spring came, and how many small ones does it have? You say, "That's it." But in the process, it takes a little bit of wind, it floods some of it, it takes a little bit of it, it steals some of it, it steals some of it from the children in the neighboring gardens. So, the little goose is pretty much your size. So that's how we exported for a month, past China. This is how we imported the next month, and passed the match. There is none. When did fall happen? Autumn, now, today, 17 full years of AK PARTY power. We've completed 17 full years, it's autumn -- it's already autumn -- now let's count the small dig. The difference between our exports and imports is $1 trillion and $50 billion. Yeah, I mean, in the name of God, right? Our foreign trade deficit is $1 trillion and $50 billion. So, how much is our export? 2 trillion 100. How much is our import? 3 trillion 100, that's a trillion. There's not a single civilized country in the world with an external trade deficit, half the size of exports, so there's no illegitimates, so let's just take it from there. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) One more time -- the note got mixed up, so it was because of Mr. Osman -- in 17 years the Turkish economy gave $1 trillion and $50 billion in foreign trade deficits. This is half of our total export. So the date palms that we ate when it was low -- in the autumn of 2019 -- began to come out slowly. Now, where this foreign trade deficit will bring us is what we call current transactions. These current transactions, exports, other than imports, we have foreign currency transactions, we have foreign currency spending, and when they're all involved in this, there's a deficit of current transactions; $575 billion. Once again, $575 billion. That means we have to spend money that we don't have in any way. We spent $575 billion, 17 years of money that wasn't ours. I mean, we're having a wedding with money, right? We're having a wedding with money. Now, they didn't do this to us because of our black eye, they lent us money in return. Now, let's look at this debt, and it's slowly bringing us to the point. Turkey -- of course, the whole world has debt, money, borrows, buys as much as years, they say, balls -- has an external debt in 2002. So that means Turkey's external debt in 2002, which also means that the Republic is an 80-year-old regime in 2002. The entire foreign debt of the Republic in eighty years, in 2002, on the coast of Turkey, as much value as we can call it -- factories, roads, inns, baths and so on -- is the total external debt that we do to get all of this. That's 131 billion dollars. We have an external debt of 131 billion dollars -- some of it -- 44 of it special, 87 of it public. Now, this number today is $447 billion. The difference is, what's the number that's only been made in 17 years? $316 billion. Now, I'll tell you one more time: the foreign debt, which is the equivalent of all the economic value on the sale of Turkey in 80 years, is 131 billion dollars, the foreign debt made in 17 years, $316 billion; that's a lot, and it's not worth it. In addition to that, we have to add: 70 billion dollars in privatisation. What does that mean? If we don't fall from the original 131, we have to add 316 to this 316. Let's add 316, that'll make it easier. So I'm saying 131 billion dollars added to the external debt, and I'm not saying where it reaches: the added number is $386 billion. It's not a good thing, dear friends, precious deputies. And I was going to say all of this -- and I was going to say it later, but let's just say, just in case, the notes can mix again -- not just in the way of doing the accounting of a past like that, but not for that purpose, but what kind of ground we're sitting on, what kind of ground do we have to move on this floor, what kind of ground we need to move on now, for that purpose? Now, this has been debt, foreign trade deficits, current transactions deficits, loans, debt payments, good, good; now we've come to pay the price; the price is interest. The interest we've paid for foreign debt in 177 years is 173 billion dollars, and I repeat, the interest we're paying for foreign debt is 173 billion dollars. It's very, very much more than that. See, that's where all the work we used to call dates and stuff gets us. I also want to look at the public sector, and I just want to make sure that the public doesn't include the private sector at all. In this process, it's $460 billion that only the public pays foreign and domestic debt. That's $80 billion, 380 billion for the outside, including the interior. That's an extraordinary number. So in the history of Turkey, in its history, in Seljuklu, in Kokturk, there's no way to find anything similar to this in any of them. Hopefully, we won't have that kind of economic situation anymore. $463 billion, 460... Dear friends, we've done an Ataturk Dam Project, a good project, and while I was an expert in the State Planning Agency, I also made preparations for it. It was opened in 1992, and I was the Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency at the opening of the Ataturk Dam. Of course, it's one of our most beautiful projects. Twenty-seven years passed, and we gave four billion dollars to the Ataturk Dam. So if we divide this interest by $4 billion -- I'm saying for a indicator -- it's going to make 115 Ataturk Dams. The interest the government pays makes 115 Ataturk Dams. Of course there's no reset. May God make you believe that if a more decent economic administration worked in the same way, the number of these 115 Ataturk Dams -- $460 billion -- would be at least half of it, so that's 50 Ataturk Dams. So this is what an Ataturk Dam means, friends, and I'm just saying, it costs $4 billion to refresh your memories, waters 10 million acres every year with the water he saves behind it, 10 million acres; the electricity we get in 27 years is 250 billion kilowatts, 250 billion kilowatts. In exchange for all of this, we spent $25 billion, $4 billion, and in twenty-seven years, it brought us six times as much. That's what you call a project, isn't it? Now, in these 17 years, is it possible to show one such thing for God's sake? It's not. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Now, I think Mr. President woke up before the 2015 elections, because before the 2015 elections, the President of the Central Bank, our Deputy Prime Minister in Charge of Economic Affairs, probably from our Finance Minister, received a briefing from them in the mansion, in Ashliya, in the interest briefing. I interpreted it this way: So it's been realized that this is the life of the matter, but this is the life of the matter, but the main focus is whether the Central Bank is approaching the issue with interest or in other areas; that's different. But that means I've interpreted the importance of interest enough to be perceived on the highest level in 2015. Now, that's it... Now, dear lawmakers, a little bit of this interest, etcetera, which hurts me while I'm working, and it hurts me when I'm talking to you here, and it hurts me when I'm talking to you, and God knows, you've been hurt somewhere. I'd like to tell you a little joke to soften this up a little bit. The 1990s... in turn, one of the sides of the joke becomes an American, an American, a rich man. He's traveling around here in a four-engine jet, and he's traveling in the Middle East geography beneath us, and he's traveling in the Arabian Peninsula. Let's say it happened somewhere around Yemen, and it stalls one of the four engines. He searched the tower, and searched the tower: Peace be upon you, tower! It says: "Ye tower, I have a four-engine jet; one engine has stalled." I'm uncomfortable with these things. There's a half-breed singer named Bob Marley in the 1990s; that's dont worry, take me down to the nearest airport. It's his song, it's his song, it's his song, it's his song, it's all over the world. The American likes it very much. We despise these people in the Middle East. Look, he's using technology at the latest; he runs the tower, he runs the planes, he runs the air traffic, and he's got our Bob Marley's song all the way down here, and he knows that. Anyway, he went away for a while, the 2nd engine stalled, the same interview. The third engine stalled; the same interview. The fourth engine stalled; the tower called again: "O tower, salaam alaikum alaikum. " (Alaykum alaikum) " (Alaykum alaikum alaikum.) The fourth engine stopped me, and the answer came to me from the tower, "Don't worry. There is no such thing as "Don't worry. "
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0061par0044	The result depends on your predecessor, Mr. President. The result depends on its predecessors.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0045	Yeah. Now, may God protect us from such a valley, where, eventually, the 4th engine will suffer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, high-value lawmakers, unemployment is the most important issue of the 21st century. We may not have been able to give the necessary importance of economic policy -- myself included -- until now, we're not. So our priorities were other priorities, but unemployment is now at the top of all priorities in the 21st century. I want to say one line, one sentence, and get out of this valley again about the economic policies of the 21st century. In the 21st century, foreign policy is all foreign economic relations. I mean, maybe all history is foreign economic relationships. We don't know how to look at him like that. The nationalism of the 21st century is also economic nationalism. So all nationalism in the 21st century has to focus on the economy, and that's how we look at it. Now, unemployment is the tip of this, the tip of economic policy. So we're going to do a lot of work, so what we're going to do is we're going to have to build jobs. The American school... yes, the introduction is delayed, maybe. Now, employment...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0062par0050	And you're always telling jokes about the '90s.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0051	By 2002 -- one figure -- took over the unemployed stockpile of the EC PARTY; 2 million 650,000. The number in 2002 is not a normal number of years, the valued MPs. The reason is that three or four years ago, there was the 1994 economic crisis, then there was the 1999 earthquake, the national income narrowed by 3.5 per cent, then there was the 2001 economic crisis, and the national income narrowed by 6 per cent. So in the last four or five years, the economy has narrowed down almost 15 percent. The end of all this came as unemployment. And that number, that number, is a lot higher than any normal year number; 2,650. Okay, it's been 17 years. We've used up all the loans we just borrowed, so the AK PARTI used economic management. What does Allah have to happen? This 2,650 could be going down, right? It could be, or it could be, we're even happy with it, thank God. This number has now reached 4,600. Now, they've grown up. It's not 4,600; it's 4,556. I used it somewhere. One of our Ministers of Economics -- a little bit of an indirect response -- said, "Where did 4,600 come from, its equivalent is 4,556. 4,600... well, that doesn't even mean we're in a position to be where we are. This one's registered, applied, pursuing his unemployment, tracking his search for a job. A much more important subsection or fundamentally the unemployment of young unemployed people, the unemployment of young people. Now, our greatest asset, our future, our greatest asset to our future, what we can call the greatest human capital, is our youth in society. So that's the definition of a teenager from 15 to 29 years old. The population is 11-12 million; 11.5-12 million. It looks like 11,600, over. There's 3.5 million people in this, who don't look for work or go to any school; they're not in education, they're not at work. The way this is recorded, it doesn't look like 3.5 million, but the reason it doesn't look like it's registered is because, God knows, their trust in the government has diminished, their trust in these institutions has been reduced. Of these 3.5 million, over 600 thousand graduates of the university, graduates of the university, graduates of the upper secondary school; 600-odd high schools; 650-odd graduates of technical high school; or 2 million. Parents have made these people into two million teenagers, high school graduates, technical high school graduates, college graduates, but we can't give these people jobs. Now, what this means is that the most troubling situation for a house is that we all -- in fact, I think our friends from the AK PARTY know it very well from all of us, because the demand for us to ask opposition parties for jobs is 1, and the demand for our friends from the AK PARTI is probably at least 10 percent -- is that they're the ruling party. The unemployment of our young people also means that we kill the dreams of these young people, so we don't give up. He imagined a young man who had finished college, finished high school; he was going to get a job, he was going to get a job, he was going to get a promotion, he was going to get a promotion, he was going to go abroad, he was going to do much bigger services, he was going to get married, he was going to have a dorm and so on. They can't imagine any of these dreams anymore, we're killing their dreams. Part two: society is corroding its own future. These young people are our own future, young people in a 15-29-year-old group, and we're debunking our own future. In that respect, there's a great waste here. It's a waste of human capital, a waste of people. We're all more like this... we've all got planes in the office, we've got planes in the office, we're all wasted. There's cars in the office, in the position, in the office, in the cars in the office; it's a waste. It's true, and I agree with this waste, of course, but... it's what we see in airports, where our mayors press on paper, it's the size of bricks, it's the size of bricks, it praises itself, it's the mayoral services -- I hate them -- it's all a waste of money, but it's a waste of young people's unemployment. (CHEERING) There's no way we can replace it. Now, this one, on our high levels, on our high levels of government, sometimes about this -- I call it a debate -- is also going around the debate. What is it? Well, that's unemployment, but, you know, technology has evolved a lot, and people in factories are almost out of order. This technology and robot industry -- this is how the 4th Industrial Revolution brought it -- if it wants to talk a little bit more scientific -- the 4th Industrial Revolution brought it. So I believed that it was true, and then I looked at it. Who is this country that uses the world's most advanced technologies? America. Who is the country that employs the most robots in the world's factories? That's America. They don't even employ robots in factories, they don't employ robots as workers, they run factories with robots, so they run factories in robots. Okay, then shouldn't unemployment be knee-deep in America? It does. But what's the latest number of unemployment? As of 15 days earlier, America's unemployment rate has been the lowest in forty-nine years. Now, you've got a president of the United States who's in a lot of trouble, don't you, Mr. President Trump? Trump, he's at work, struggling with his discharges and stuff. But, God forbid, I'm telling you, with a hundred percent certainty, Trump isn't going to get cut off in any way. That's why it's been at the lowest unemployment level in America in the last forty-nine years. In this regard, we have had trouble dealing with unemployment because of the qualities of our friends, the ones that govern our state - technology - and it is true that they do not say. If they say so, they'll try to deceive themselves, then we'll be deceived, just as the national income per capita is tripled. Did our friend just say anything about unemployment? I said something. I said something about Bayburt. Let him come from Bayburt, this time from Bayburt. Now, Bayburt is unemployed. I mean, people, you can't sit at home, you can't go to the mall. Bayburtlu is having a conversation with a friend: either I go out to the market, and I go home, and I snore at home. I mean, he goes to the mall, and he goes to the market, and he sits in coffee, and he's not sure what to do; he comes home, he gets scolded by the lady, he snores by the lady. So, peace and happiness of homes, peace and happiness of society... I mean, here's our band -- God knows -- listening like they listen to conferences, so it's okay if they play hooks once in a while.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0063par0061	The group can't understand the AK PARTY because you tell the jokes of the 90s.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0062	Right. Now, dear MPs, for example, am I the first one to say these things? Haven't these things ever been said? In 2007, on December 14, 2007 -- as of today exactly one week ago -- I am on this stand again, criticising the economic leadership of 2007, which is considered to be the brightest, brightest period of 2007. Given the figures up to 2007, it's the exact same thing I said today, because the mistake, literally, sounds like a format. I told you, no one else said it, smart guy? There is, IMF. The IMF, in 2007... The AK PARTY has a lot of anti-IMF/efficiency and so on, but now, with the IMF, the last loan was made in 2005, during the 3rd year of the AK PARTI, the area covered by the period 2005-08. The IMF comes in every year -- as well as our membership, as well as our partnership -- works in every country, then prepares a report: Turkey's Report. Now, this is what our friends... My speech, again, is on 14/12/2007; it's also on the Parliamentary record, the perpetrator. I have a website called the organ, which is also there; interested ones, who are curious, can apply here. The other is the IMF report from Turkey, dated November 7, 2007. The IMF says in the Turkish Report of November 7, 2007... There are 5-6 parameters, 6-7 countries that have invented vulnerability indicators for various countries. Among them is Turkey, the most fragile country as of 2007 economy. This is in 2007. So that's what we believe, see, do in the media, the IMF report, where the whole world applauds the economic policies of the AK PARTY, and we know that he's playing the line, and that's what we're doing in the media. Why do I have to offer this? I've made it clear that we need to get a little smarter. So from these critiques, whether it's IMF-style, international organizations that are based on it, whether it's really domestic and national -- like the Ilhan Kesici, like our other friends -- we need to listen to what they're saying, or we're going to be a lot more troubled. Now, our friend here said we're going to the 1990s, so let's go to the AK PARTY. I'm in the middle of AK PARTY, 2019, the year we're in. You listen, too.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0064par0069	That's what I said about jokes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0070	We're in the budget of 2019, and it's not out yet, it's in the budget. When I looked at this budget, I looked at three parameters. One, what was the budget deficit, what happened? That's how you look at it. The budget deficit was 80 billion liras. What did it happen with? 125; 50 percent over. It's a huge increase. Which doesn't count as 125. We have a friend who's the president of the Federal Reserve. In the Plan and Budget Commission, both our friends and our friends from the opposition -- I've attended a part of the meetings -- they expressed a lot there, which is the issue of how the Central Bank's backup absorption of income has been applied. There's 40-45; I think 40 of 45 is a number around 41, sir, the income has been put into the budget. So if you put that in, that's 2019, the deficit of this year's budget, instead of 80, that's 160, that's twice that. What does that mean? There's no budget, no budget discipline, and that's the only way it's gonna go if you don't do anything. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Second open; current transaction deficit. In Turkey, if we divide the number that we just said in 17 years, we have 30-32 billion dollars each year, an economy that gives us an opening for current transactions. In 2019, they put a number similar to this one, $26 billion; it's good. It's happening, plus $1 billion. So in all of our history, not in all of our history -- it's in 1999-2000, it's in 2002 -- for the first time in the last 20 years, we're giving more current transactions. We all have to applaud, congratulate, first sight. I'm just feeling that way, you know, just for a round of applause or something. But then, how did we suddenly start giving $1 billion more? The first pen I looked at, the export pen, it's likely our exports have increased in a remarkable proportion. For God's sake, we're low on exports, $10 billion. So if exports aren't going up, where is it going to go up from another pen? No more pens. Well, let's look at our imports. Well, we got the number; we're down $43 billion in imports. Is that good or bad? Well, if it's good, that's how you put the target in the first place. Then I looked at his pens, these luxury consumer goods -- these 4x4s, 4-wheel drive cars, jeeps, in Istanbul, when he was in that early period, when he was still, with no movement, the cheapest imports -- and thank God they fell out of the export pen, and that's good, too. No, if our friends follow the import pens of 2019, the pen that fell here at $43 billion is called the purchase of machine equipment. "Machine equipment purchases" means industrial investment, manufacturing industry. I mean, we're giving it an extra transaction, but we're bleeding it out of the worst part of it. I wanted to bring this before my friends. The third thing is growth, growth. 2.3%. Yeah, what's this 2.3? In the Republic of Republic, 1923-2019 -- take or take 2019/, the same number -- the average growth rate is 4.7; it has a depression of 1929; there are five years, there are conflicts later -- 1960, 1970, 1980, Cyprus, etc.; there are a lot of jobs; the average growth rate is 4.7. So the year we're in, we've been targeting half the average speed of the entire republic's history; it's critical. So, did we take 2.3 and make it happen? Remember, the first quarter, the first quarter, is three months minus, the second month is negative, the third month is 0.9; it's a hard number, but it's 0.9. We've almost had holidays and rallies at 0.9, so our concerned ministers went to the A country, went to the B country, seemed to be greeted by the rallies; so there, they said with a lot of bet that the third quarter is now a plus. The fourth quarter will come. So what? What's the matter with you? Well, here we are, the whole year of 2019 is probably going to be 0.5, and we're enjoying it. Well, you should be afraid of God, shouldn't you? So we're spending this much money, this much money, what we're spending, all of this activity to get zero percent growth? Now, my late mother has a beautiful saying like this: let me remember her with mercy, and let me get her on board with our friends: we've sat on the goose. It's called zero to zero, zero to zero, zero to zero. What did we do? We're sitting on dry land, we're on dry land, aren't we? That's zero growth. We've already said in the beginning of those words that 5.3 percent growth is an essah growth or is it not a skilled growth? That's where the results come in. Now, in the mix of the notes just now... budget, 2020. I'm done with today, and now I'm here for tomorrow. After tomorrow, after I present this tomorrow, I guess I'll leave your peace. Tomorrow, 2020 tomorrow, a week and ten days from now, and then our future. But when we say that we're going to come, it might sound a little strange, so I'll take out the part that we're going to come up with, and I'll tell you what's going to happen tomorrow, and I'll stay there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In this 2020, I want to draw your attention to another factor, which is that our government has revenues to make all these expenses. In this revenue pen, there's a lot of complicated pens that can make both the financiers and the people who are interested in this economy -- including me -- so tired. Administrator, state revenues. There's a column under it. Taxes. Okay. Under it comes another subtitle and taxes on earnings. There's another subtitle under it, income tax. Now, what we call this income tax is that we have freelancers, we have friends who do freelance jobs, our engineers, our doctors, our lawyers, other freelancers. We call the taxpayers, the tax collectors, who are subject to them. There are about 2 million of them. Now, I see our friends are listening to this section -- they're listening very carefully already, thank God, but -- it would be nice if they could concentrate a little bit more. Our dutiful taxpayers are about 2 million people -- I won't tell you the number of their tax dollars -- free professions. We're talking a little bit more low-income -- we're talking old-fashioned -- we have citizens who are taxpayers in the simple way. The number of these is around 800,000. And then there's people who look like me, who are paid, who have paid income. We have about 3 million civil servants, 14 to 15 million in private sectors, including paid, paid, minimum wage. And we get taxes on all of that. And there's a pamphlet that our Treasury and Finance Minister handed out and talked to the Plan and Budget Commission in his speech to parliament again. Now, he's got some good stuff on page 11 about how to improve tax offices. There are nice words: we will develop interactive tax advice services, we will increase interactive tax offices. Such beautiful words, as a result. Let's do these, too. The Ministry of Finance also costs a lot of money to collect taxes from these people. Now, we've done it all, we've collected taxes from these people. And they're a pain in the ass -- I mean, filling out these statements, dealing with accountants, it's a pain in the ass, taking you away and paying your taxes, etc. -- we put up with all this trouble, we put up with it, we put up with it; it's a number; it's a number, it's a bag. In return... this book is the Presidential Program for the Year of 2020. This book has a picture like this on page 60 or so, budget. Me, too, of course, on top of it... it's complicated, so friends can't see it. There's an interest pen here. That interest pen -- now I've given up the other, the old interest, and I've come to a new one -- 138 billion, 940 million dollars -- is 139 billion dollars. In this budget, in the budget of 2020, the interest pen is 139 billion liras. That's what we've collected from 20 million people that I've just counted, from 3 million civil servants, from the salaries of 14-15 million paid people, 2 million free jobs, 800,000 taxpayers, under taxes. Now we're bringing in new taxes -- this is valuable dwellings, valuable dwellings -- and of course I don't have one, we live in rent in Istanbul; and we live in a TOKI house in Ankara, which we bought, in a TÜKKI house. There's nothing about it that concerns me directly, but why did I bring up this information? There's a big hole here. How our friends -- who are interested in space science -- swallow up whatever they see around the black hole; all the planets that pass from right to left, near it, including systems like the solar system -- all the systems of that dimension, such as that, are vacuuming and swallowing. Well, now this treasure is a hole in the ground. (CHP) I mean, where did this come from? This, of course, is not today's issue; one of the things that I really want to emphasize is that it's not about 2020, it's not about 2019, it's about what happened since 2003. Now, here, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu has given us a figure on the interest in an affair. My witness at the AK PARTY was a very diverse friend, and suddenly, in the first sight, they had a lot of objections. Mr. President, to tell you the number in this budget again -- he didn't just say the number here, he didn't say the same as me -- he said: "The state pays $2.6 million interest every day, every hour." Now, let's divide this $139 billion into three hundred and sixty-five days, if we divide it by twenty-four hours, that's exactly 2.6 million. And then if we convert that into dollars -- the average dollar of 2019 is six hundred dollars dry -- divided by six, that's going to come out. Mr. President, will you give me too much time or too little time? I'll organize myself. You've got three minutes here, and you've given me one, four, maybe, yeah. You can multiply it all at once, give it a raise. Now, my dear friends, I don't want to get out of your hair until I have something to say about the solution here. So the solution is this: for once, I, God knows, have told you all this stuff that I'm saying, maybe I'm just going to say it now -- bottom line -- it's serious. So the situation of the Turkish economy is serious. We have friends who use other terminologies inside and out. I'm not one of those who like the word "crisis," and I'm not one who uses it, not now or any other time. But instead, I'm being serious. This is serious. Once upon a time, there was an ad for detergent from white to white, and I said, "This is more serious than serious. I mean, that's the way people who run our government should look at it. Two: there is no magic in this, nor is there a magician. Let's find out what's best, bring him in, sit him down, and let him sort things out. There's no such thing. It's a matter of a very serious nature that requires that this work be dealt with. Now, right next to this certainty is a terminology that I use myself. I used it in front of 2001, in front of the 1994 crisis. Now, we're going to winter in a week and ten days, and it's supposed to be winter, but we haven't entered yet, we're going to winter. After every winter, there's no spring, sometimes after winter, there's black winter. I used the term "black winter" before 2001 and 1994. Now, I'm worried about that, because the black winter is getting lighter, and instead there's an English article in literature that I catch up with, so if we don't do it, if we underestimate what we're going through, if we believe that we can overcome it easily... There's a saying that our concerned ministers sometimes express: The evil one is behind us. For example, did the current transactions pay $1 billion more than: live, exist! Now that we've moved past the bad days, we've got a bright future -- let's not say bright future, but we have a bright future. Again, zero growth, the fourth quarter of 2018, minus the first quarter of 2019, minus the first quarter of 2019, minus the second quarter, minus the third quarter, plus zero, so the bad days are behind us.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0065par0089	Mr. Kesci, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0090	Aye. Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's one thing to forget. So not looking for magic, not looking for magicians, we've put that behind us, so let's organize the business accordingly. Really, really, really, really, really serious, really serious, really serious, really serious, really serious. We also use fancy words, such as "Kapsam" or "Kapsam" or "Kapsam" or "Kapsam" or "Kapsam" or "Capsam" or "Capsam" or something, but we need to prepare a serious program. About a month ago, Mr. President said in a television program, the elections would be held in June 2023, at a normal time. Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Bahçeli Bey said the elections will be held on time. That's good. What does that mean, why am I saying good? What does that mean? We have three and a half years of time ahead of us. Let's leave the last six months to election campaigns, and there's a three-year window. Let this program be a three-year program, and let's use it literally. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me one more moment...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0066par0095	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0096	Thank you. There's this consulting firm and all that. I also know that our government, or our administration, works with McKinsey and so on, and we read about it every once in a while. These are good, too. But believe me, at least as far as a bunch of people I know, we have many friends in Turkey who are far superior to the knowledge of Turkey by McKinsey experts. (HPP, HDP and GOOD PARTY) All of this awaits an invitation. I mean, these friends don't want money, they don't want stamps, they don't want a position, they don't want a position; they don't want one, I know they don't want one. But these people want to serve their homeland. These friends of ours need to be evaluated in this big program. One has to stop being stubborn, just in the way of our own friends. If you'll just give me 30 seconds, Mr. President... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think so.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0067par0101	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0058par0102	Thank you. Our political and state elder, the late Osman Squadronmaster, has a very nice advice to the politicians, and I want to end it with him and leave your peace, which is... the first two, just like me, to say the third thing. Osman Company leader was saying: "The poor son sinks the rich, sinks the officer, sinks the politician dryly. Now, to give up this dry stubbornness, to call Turkey to normalisation, to compromise." Congressmans, after all this talk, we, the Republican People's Party Group, will vote for the 2020 budget, but again, as I said at the beginning of my word, I wish the budget to bring good deeds to our state, our nation, and I leave your peace. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit02spe0068par0107	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0068par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first word belongs to Group President and Ankara MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0008	Mr. President, dear friends, when I just looked in the hall, I thought of a rookie lecturer who wanted to get advice from an expert on the conference.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0070par0009	The AK PARTY group didn't show up.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0071par0010	I'm enough for all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0011	When taking counsel from his master, how do I do it, how do I explain it? After taking various advices about how to use language, gestures, gestures, and gestures, come out at your last feet, for you must not wake up those who are in the hall. I thought I wouldn't have to do that, but the AK PARTY group is here, and the other guys are coming.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0070par0012	No, they're not here yet, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0013	They're coming, they're coming. Now, we've heard ilhan Bey. Basically, we've been listening to a lot of talks during budget debates in the House. There were talks about slogans, two sentences, three sentences of stereotypes. That's what happens in democracy. In comparison, Mr. Kesici gave a very beautiful speech that stretched the limits of power-Muslims who wanted to communicate with the audience, and in that sense, we thank you. But I don't understand a few things, so I have to ask him, he's not here, but I'm sure he'll be delivered by friends. This is the 18th budget as he begins to speak. The AK PARTY has been budgeting for 17 years. It's a political achievement. He said. But he began by saying economies........ and then he painted an extremely unsuccessful economic picture of 17 years. What I didn't understand -- I don't think our nation understood -- is how did the AK PARTY succeed in politics for 17 years, fail in economics? How is this equation possible? (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Were they short on economics or not enough numbers? But I do know that our people -- you know, you know -- know life very well, read politics well, look at the field, evaluate all of this, what anyone says and what they do, and in that frame, they make very rational political choices. So what I know is that economic failure in democracies comes with political failure. If you're talking about a successful period in politics, a long period of time, drawing a very dramatic picture of the economy creates a paradox, and that's number one. And secondly, Mr. Kesici kept talking about criticism. Criticism is possible in the economy, criticisms in many forms have been said in this geography since the Ottoman Republic. For example, there was Mehmet Ali Aini, Kastamonulu, who had a lot of debates on these things. Ohannes Pasha, there was Parvus Efendi in the past, and Mr Kesici knows all about it. There was the staff movement, for example, at the top of the republic. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Ilhan Kesici surely has no such reference, but they imagined an otarchic economic structure - an indoor, equivalent budget, a state-owned economy. And then there was a lot of discussion about economic issues, very different ideas, thesises, but the main thing is that, beyond all these clouds of debate, people look at what's going on in democratic countries, and they decide what's going on. Of course, after all Mr. Kesici's criticism -- let's just say he also mentioned magic -- after an hour of this talk -- of course, it wasn't supposed to be like that -- I wouldn't be taking rabbits out of the hat anymore; I waited, Boeing 737 will come out? Don't do that, do that. Of course, I'd love to hear something like that, but let's be serious about what this nice talk, or what this funny talk tells us, or what I understand in my limited mind. It's definitely not a serious 737, but it's not a serious 737. Seriousness is a matter that every sane person needs to take care of and care about such matters. Of course, politics and power don't have any complexes; let's just take advantage of our own mind" -- taking advantage of the whole mind of the country is the work of intelligent people because in the real world, everyone in life is everyone's teacher and everyone is everyone's student, intelligent people look at it like that. Dear friends, as I watched the talks on the budget -- I've been in Parliament since 2011 -- when I thought about what kind of painting upsets me in a very diverse way in this Parliament, we were going through international agreements here, we had a disagreement with the opposition, and they left the Assembly, and they protested us. We're here on our own, and we've made international agreements on our own, so...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0072par0020	You did it fast.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0021	Yes, we did, there were about 30 international contracts, we made them. When I looked at Parliament there, I said that this Parliament cannot work this way, this Parliament cannot work this way, this is certainly the Assembly of the Republic of Turkey's democracy, it must be opposition, the opposition must object, the opposition must express its own approach, its own perspective from these platforms, we see it very important. You know how they always say it, but it's not enough to just say it: power is everywhere, opposition is in democracies. Turkey is a democratic country, and I'm glad there are opposition, you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0072par0023	If we don't have trustees, we're here for now.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0024	Of course, the role of the opposition here is that I think the function is to speak both for itself and for the third eye for the public, so that's how the citizens view what you do. In fact, in the name of the public, have I ever actually seen criticisms based on the public judgment and imagination of the true political language? I've seen it, but I've barely seen it. I wish there were more. If there were more, then that relationship with democracy would have been a better form of communication for the opposition to represent its own parts and to express criticism on the public's behalf as a third eye and to produce meaningful and useful results. I don't think that's productive enough. In fact, there were a lot of paintings here that reminded me of these Amazon Indians, and there was a little bit of that sort of air in the talks. Pierre Clastres, in the Society Against the State, tells how the Amazon Indians, when the night comes, the warriors go deep into the forest, where they gather around a fire, and then they all sing together, but the Amazon Indians don't sing the same song, everyone sings their own songs, everyone who sings their own songs, and everyone who listens is the only one who's said to be the only one who's heard it, never changed: know how I hunted down that deer and the monkey today, oh, folks! Sometimes the speeches have become so self-involved that they've become so self-involved that they've become so self-re reminded of the atmosphere that they're left of the Amazon Indians. However, from this House, from its communication, from this platform, to conduct these things in a very good language of negotiation. Even when it is referred to as, of course, the words about the meaning of the negotiation are to be able to speak with a mind and sensitivity that will make him a partner in the matter that you are talking about, without setting boundaries, without putting walls, without hurting the other side. Nelson Mandela, a successful politician, has a long, painful life - the art of winning the enemy can be summarized. In South Africa, where there was a white regime, a racist leader who challenged them as the leader of the blacks -- they surely knew what it was worth -- to establish a new order -- he also won a Nobel Prize. Nelson Mandela carried out his whole politics in South Africa, where there was enemy law, with an approach to winning them in a way that addressed their hearts and minds as he fought his enemies. Besides, there is absolutely no enemy law in Turkey, there is no racist regime. Here, the most competitive, political differences can be talked about. Here, in a country that can't be measured in comparison with South Africa, such low doses and disputes between people, perhaps less is the obligation for humans to win their opponents. We can win each other over. Not just with a mind that appeals to our own house, but to the other, to the other, to the other, to win it, to his mind and heart, which, of course, wasn't done, but more likely, would have meant more. Dear friends, this budget is the budget of one per cent while reviews of the budget are being made here. This budget is the budget of a minority. This budget is called the budget of the wealthy. And here's an injustice and a disproportionate assessment. Those are slogans! Don't people know the truth that friends who say that know? People have seen the budget of 1%, but they have supported the EC PARTY: Go rebuild the budget.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0073par0027	Then in the Istanbul elections, people pulled the plug.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0028	So, did the AK PARTY do witchcraft, do they do it with hocus-pocus? There's no such thing. If you are making a budget based on the interests of 1%, you will fail in democratic politics. It's clear what the AK PARTY did in 17 years. It's clear to people from the disadvantaged groups from the lower classes how it speeds up the social movement there to the middle classes, and what important work it does in a way that is absolutely not acceptable to the distribution of resources related to all these issues. It's always about numbers. The top 20 percent to the lowest 20 percent... look, from the past years to today, yes, it's on a modest scale, dramaticly changing everything and creating a homogeneous nation in horizontal equality is not an easy task. You can't do it with words, but you can't do it with reality, but the AK PARTY has made budgets, made expenses, provided support, in the direction of the interests of the lower and middle classes that represent it on a modest scale, especially in the interest of the lower and middle class. So the people supported the EC PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There is a very basic definition of economics: to ensure balance between food resources and endless desires. This is not an easy job because your sources are clear, and Turkey's sources are clear. People's desires are endless. Whoever is in power, with egg mold on his back, no doubt he can't fully satisfy those desires, but by making rational choices in the measure of possibilities, he provides a balance. It's not a realistic balance, it's not imaginary, it's not provocative, it's not paintings that sweep people off their feet, they see fairy tales, but it's about the real world. Like digging a well with a needle, it's intended to positively change people's lives. The EC PARTY did do this, but when we look at the language of the opposition -- especially not in the main opposition, but in the 2th Party Parliament -- we see that they have a popular approach here, not in the part of the scarce resources -- that is, the most fundamental element of the economy, this country's resources, but in a language that constantly emphasizes people's endless desires, that they're doing politics here, that they're representing some parts of them, and so on a language that's always addressed desires. What do we see? Give it to him, give it to him, give it to him, give it to him, give it to him, give it to him. Why does this government not increase the price of wheat? Return to the city, O brother of the city! Why do you eat bread so expensive? It's a paradox. Both raising the price of wheat and lowering the price of bread, that's like pulling something out of a hat, which is not a magic party, but an AK PARTY party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another thing is, it's an infinitive strategy -- it's as if various parts of society represent this influx of our dear friends on the stand. Of course, it's meaningful to represent it if society is in an infinal state, but in its infinitive strategy, what do you stand up to society, stand up! It's propaganda, and there are many examples that are in line with the infinitive strategy throughout history. Look at history, for example, in 1789, the French Army, one of the greatest lies in history, said Queen Marie Antoinette: "If they can't find bread, let them eat cake." If they can't find bread, let them eat cake. When does it say that? At a time when workers earn a kilo of bread a day, the Queen says so. If you say so, people will come to the street. That's not what the poor queen said. He said a word about how they could manage bread, but the intention was that against that cruel kingdom, against that inequality, against the kingdom of tyranny, to build freedom, equality, and brotherhood, what does Marie Antoinette say, and what does it matter? They raided the Bastille, the Bastille... the people and the middle class who were supposedly punished by this kind of administration were staying there, and they joined the supporters of the 3th Assembly, and that's a separate lie... the people of the nobles stayed in the Bastille, and that Bastille story was different. My point is, of course, is not to describe the French Revolution, but the propaganda language based on this infinitive strategy is also very humane, very human, very human. You take it, of course, not to revolutionize it, but in democratic politics, you go in the same way by putting it somewhere in that competition. What did those who went out to the streets as equals, brotherhood, freedom? Those who went out into the streets, in the words of Saint-Just, have established the tyranny of freedom against the enemies of liberty. It is not enough to say only good words, but only to chant slogans. What are you gonna do? What are you going to accomplish at the end of this? And it was the guillotine found by the French Revolution -- the guillotine that worked twenty-four hours against the enemies of the Republic -- because there were so many enemies. Those who came to power with their slogans for freedom, equality, brotherhood did so. In 1917, the Soviet Revolution left for bread and peace, and its people needed peace. Stalin killed 27 million people. As the Bolshevik regime ended in 1991, Svetlana Aleksijevic described it well in the Second Hand Zaman, and they pursued another dream. In the end, they destroyed the Soviet Union, but in its place, they created a new system of ruin. It's extremely dramatic and pathetic. I mean, the political language, which appeals to people's desires, but does not relate to reality, creates tragedies. Got to be realistic. You're going to look at the possibilities of this country, look at what's being done, of course you're going to do your criticism in a realistic political language. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The clock is ticking fast.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0074par0040	Just a minute, please, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0041	Thank you. Dear friends, of course, there is much to be said.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0075par0043	And there's an answer.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0044	Of course, of course. No? All criticisms of the Republican People's Party have walked around one man and the palace. That's another way of saying slogans. As a result, the place you call the palace is where people go by choice and take their legitimacy by the vote of the nation. The person sitting there is on the basis of such legitimacy, just like you. Like the kind of person you're leaning on with the same legitimacy that you're giving him, the criticism you're giving him is essentially a criticism that you're making to yourself as a result. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When it comes to this one-man thing, there's a lot to be said here.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0076par0049	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0050	I wish you'd go to Mr. Erdogan's meetings. And you have to go, actually, because these people...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0077par0051	Let's go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0052	No, go as an audience, dear, you don't have to shout. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish you would observe the nature of the relationship between Mr. Erdogan and the people there. Shouldn't you be learning about your opponent? It's very important in that way. I mean, what kind of connection is there that people love Mr. Erdogan so much?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0077par0055	All the squares are full, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0056	You'd better see for yourself, but I'll tell you about that bond.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0077par0057	Which leader's square is empty, my dear!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0069par0058	You know how you say one man? People there say with all their enthusiasm and excitement: "O Erdogan, you're a politician, you're a man, and you're a man. You have to learn your opponent.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0078par0060	Just give me five more minutes, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0079par0061	One at a time. Let's finish, please, Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0080par0064	Thank you. Another propaganda language is to take out a country essay by taking on a single set of events like this. As I listened to those friends, I kept thinking about Dadaism in the picture that critics didn't know what to do at first. You make collages out of a lot of these things, you put pictures of bright colors, and people don't understand what's going on, what's this composition? I'd say it's a very Dadaist approach. Here's the thing: you say suicides, you know, suicides exist in a lot of countries around the world, and more in northern countries. Durkheim did a study on suicide, called Suicide. E, people live in Turkey too, there may be suicides. The connection between the conditions of life and suicide between you people is certainly an evaluation of political intent only, which has nothing to do with those people, which is based on the propaganda language.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0081par0068	We don't say it, they say it.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0082par0069	They're leaving a letter, a letter.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0083par0070	I don't think you should do it piece by piece, Mr. President, just give it to me as a whole.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0084par0071	Let's finish, please, Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0085par0073	Now, for what it's worth: look, hypothetically, people, their situation has become tragic, they've fallen into poverty -- based on this assumption you think -- and then they couldn't stand it, they've committed suicide. Dear friends, conditions are not the ultimate deterrent for humans. They say that boiling water softens the potatoes, hardens the eggs. It's the nature of the people that matters. Some people get out of it by sharpening themselves as the conditions get harder, and some people get out in a different place by their psychology, but that's not what you call suicide. There are people among you who know about medicine, about psychiatry. And it's not the right thing to talk about all this stuff on the podium. So if you look at literature, suicide for such political intent, there's no use in talking about suicide, there's no use in reporting.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0086par0075	And you took it as usual.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0085par0076	Now, as for the murder of women, look, the AK PARTY has done very important things to this country about women.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0087par0079	What are we doing, Mr. Bostanci, cutting off other friends?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0085par0080	Yeah, one minute, excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0088par0081	Mr. President, when you give us a minute, a minute like this, we get distracted.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0089par0082	Mr. President, give it to me in bulk.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0090par0083	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0091par0084	He made some big moves about the girls' schooling. This country belonged to the largest employment women in the agriculture area as Turkey modernized, providing opportunities for them to enter more public life, making legal arrangements for women's violence, murders, gender inequality. About all this...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0092par0085	But you don't fit. Mr. President, you're not applying them.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0091par0086	You know it. Now, women's murders exist in many countries around the world. In France, 94 - year - old man killed his 92 - year - old wife and France stood up.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0092par0088	A bad example is not an example. Our president says there is no precedent, no precedent.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0091par0089	When there are many social stories about tradition in all cultures and a long history of women's history, sir, it's connected to the AK PARTY. It's a dirty thing to say, at least.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0093par0092	It's connected to all the authorities, as you are.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0091par0093	Because I'm sure that the friends who know and judge these things here, even though they don't raise their voices to this injustice because of their parties, I think they're going to rebel from within. Thank you for your patience, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0094par0096	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0095par0097	I'll give you my word, Mr. Altay, after the talks for the group are over.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0094par0098	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0095par0099	Thank you. The second statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group is from Mr. Bulent Tüfenkci. Here you go, Mr. Tüfenkci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0096par0104	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your high council and our dear citizens who follow us with love and respect. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the final account of 2018 and the budget of 2020. We've reached the end of our budgetary negotiations in our Parliament, the establishment of national will. As of today, we will have completed the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. In the process, we've had a chance to see every ministry's budget. For the past 11 days, our High Council has been exposed to irrelevant, right and unfair assessments of the budget. Of course, these evaluations are highly valuable because of the nature of democracy and the sound of our nation. After all, I think we've had a productive budget meeting. Dear friends, when we looked at it, we saw that the opposition was actually in the 90s. Why did we see it? They still think Turkey has only one Ataturk Dam, and a dam outside the Ataturk Dam was not built during the AK PARTI period. But when we look at it, I must say to Ilhan Bey: There were only 565 dams made during the AK PARTY, only in 553, Deputy. When we look at it, the Ermenek and Deeper Dam are at a height... the Yusufli Dam is the largest dam in the world, and they can't make it higher than that. Turkey's annual earnings are 6 billion from the Deeper Dam alone. So at this point, we've already exceeded the 90s, and at this point, there's a Turkey growing at least 3.5 or 4 times in every area. AS AK PARTY, we are proud to have seen our 18th budget in 17 years of political and economic stability. During our 17 years of power, we have always demonstrated our stable stance in budget discipline, and that is what we see in this budget. With the EC PARTY administration, Turkey's budget deficits, which have been on its agenda for many years, have been reduced and ended. The budget deficit, which was 11.2 per cent in 2002, dropped to 2 per cent by late 2018. We've had a dramatic decline in interest spending, based on budget discipline and trust management. In 2002, interest spending is expected to remain at 12.7 per cent in the budget, while its share in the budget is 43.2%. When we look at the budget of the presidential government system for 2020 -- the First Development Plan and the New Economic Programme -- the budget of 82 million people, who are centralizing our goals, predicting development in all areas, are supporting employees, workers, producers, farmers, women and young people. Dear President, valued lawmakers, we also see that the world trade has been weakened by uncertainty about the policies of Brexit, money and finance, especially in the global economy, trade wars. This is also confirmed by international organisations. The IMF has reduced the estimates of economic growth by 3.9 per cent to 3 per cent in 2019, and I want to point out that the rate is at the lowest in the last decade. In 2019, global growth will remain at 1.4 per cent. In 2019, the World Trade Organization reduced its estimate of the world's goods to 1.2 per cent, from 4 per cent to 1.2 per cent of trade growth. Despite the slowing down of the global economy and the negativeness of the trade environment, Turkey's economy has entered the process of stabilisation and recovery and will continue to walk decisively towards its goal. Economic fluctuations, sanctions and regional uncertainty have not driven Turkey away from its goal, but have brought us closer to our goals. Unlike the painting drawn, Turkey continues to perform very strongly and positively in foreign trade. In 2019, global exports declined in many countries, while Turkey continues to increase exports by maintaining its strong position. In fact, for example, according to the World Trade Organization's data, in the first nine months, we see a decline in exports of 50 of the 69 countries whose data has been released. However, Turkey has increased exports by 2.3 per cent. When we look at the rankings of countries, we are the seventh in exports, and at value we are the fifth in export growth. In 2002, we had over $5 billion in exports and now we have over $5 billion in 11 sectors exporting. According to the general trade system, nominal exports reached $179.9 billion in October, while 12 months of imports were reduced to 205 billion. When we look here, we can see, again, the relative reduction in machinery and equipment -- not reduced -- is filled with domestic production. Let me tell you the number of increases in machine and equipment production from 2010 to 2018: we've increased production of machines and equipment by 103.7%. In 2018, domestic production continues to grow in 2019. This is because of the support our government has given to domestic production. At the end of 2019, we expect our annual export to exceed $180 billion. In 2020, exports were targeted at 190 billion dollars. With the support and encouragement of our governments, hopefully, this high acceleration in foreign trade will continue to increase. As it is known, in the second half of the year 2018, serious speculative attacks on our country's economy, especially on its foreign currency channel. The fluctuations on the exchange rate have been a high-profile pressure on inflation, while the number of growths has been negative. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Central Future Programme was created to overcome the uncertainty of global conditions and economic attacks against our country, ahead of balance, discipline and transformation. In this context, we have established our primary goals as combating inflation, reducing the current deficit, healthy and sustainable growth, and we have demonstrated our policies in line with those goals. We also see in this budget the struggle to reduce interest, reduce inflation to one-digit figures, by seeing interest as a factor in inflation. Recent figures also show that the policies that we've implemented have taken effect and that our economy is in the process of recovery. As a result, the recent Industrial Production Index has increased 3.8 per cent compared to the same month last year in October. I've just ordered an eight-year increase in capacity use in the manufacturing industry, and in the last November, we've seen it rise to the peak of 15 months. In 2002, we were ranked 20th in the world as well as 13th place. All this data is also indications that our economy is coming alive. On the other hand, we're seeing significant improvements in inflation data. Since the beginning of the year, consumer inflation has declined by close to 10 points. We also see the reflections of this situation in improvements in the trust index. The new Economic Programme aims to reduce inflation to 8.5 per cent in 2020 and 4.9 per cent at the end of the programme period. So we're looking at the budget as well. There have been significant decreases in interest. In the last five months, interest rates have been reduced by 1,200 points. The central bank's realistic monetary policy and the strong stance of public banks alongside the manufacturer were also eliminated from the interest pressure on the markets. We've given the highest rate in the history of the republic in the balance of current transactions, which is a chronic problem for Turkey. As of September 2019, $5.9 billion increased in annual current transactions. Certainly, the government's position and the right decisions have been effective. In the third quarter of 2019, Turkey's economy began to grow again. These growth figures show that those who target our economy are once again frustrated. Tax cuts, employment incentives and credit programmes support economic growth without compromising financial discipline. In the fourth quarter, hopefully, we'll get four or five percent growth, and we'll close this year with positive growth, as predicted. As a matter of fact, we see international rating agencies also revisiting their predictions upwards in this way. Between 2002-2018, we grew by 5.5 percent, becoming one of the world's fastest growing economies. We've also raised our exports from $36 billion to $180 billion, $190 billion. We too are happy to see that the seeds that we have planted in the past 17 years have really come to life today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the year 2018, 45 million visitors will rise to the global level at the second level, and hopefully we will have completed more than 50 million in 2020. Global direct investments declined by 13 per cent in 2018, while direct investments in Turkey increased by 13 per cent to $13 billion. While some friends make a Turkey assessment, they specifically mention that international capital is not coming to Turkey, but when we look at the numbers we have, we also see that it is the opposite. Despite international geopolitical pressures, many companies prefer Turkey to invest, especially despite the pressures of Western media and anti-country lobbying. Turkey rose four steps in 2018, according to the previous year, in the ranking of countries that have received the highest foreign investments in 199 countries. Anyone who trusts in our country and invests in our country has won, and will continue to win by the will of God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The companies are closing. It is said that the number of companies established in October increased by 8.5 per cent compared to the previous month and by 18 per cent compared to the previous year's October. The increase in the number of companies opened is 21 per cent per year. The change that our government has just announced is starting. With the New Economy Programme on its theme, it is clear that we will gain much faster momentum. Economic recovery will be accelerated, and economic losses in the first half of the year will also be compensated. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the EC PARTI has achieved the most important actions in the history of the republic from economy to health, education to social life. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Despite terrorist attacks and financial attacks, we project all the improvements we've provided to our citizens, our tradesmen, our industrialists, our manufacturers. The breakthroughs we've made are also reciprocal in the international arena. Turkey, for the first time in its history in the Human Development Index, was ranked in the category of very high human development, raising it to the 59th ranking between 189 countries. This is also proof that the expected life expectancy, average life expectancy, decline in infant mortality, has shown significant improvement in national income per capita. This is the success of 17 years of AK PARTY governments. In particular, the increase in life expectancy stems from the successful performance of the AK PARTY governments in health care. As the number of hospital beds fell from 24.8 to 27.9, we increased the number of qualified beds from 19,000 to 145. As a result of our medical investments, we've reduced the rate of infant mortality from 31.5 to 6.8, and the rate of mother death in 100,000 living births from 64 to 13.6. Someone or some of us are bombarding city hospitals with criticism. We're talking about some funding or something like that. But the comfort it gives our people, the use of cutting-edge technologies, the work of its employees in a comfortable environment, is a sign of our value to man. (EC PARTY Applause) The EC PARTY is focused on human-oriented, human-privileged service, so it's more important than money to care about the health of our people, their long-lived life, and their easy access to health. (AK PARTY) Today, every citizen can get to health very easily and very cheaply for the world. Dear friends, there is no doubt that AK PARTY governments are among the number-one countries of the world in social welfare. We've implemented a number of new practices that we can call reform in the field of welfare, and we've diversified social aid programmes. The budget of 2020 shows that the amount of funding for social spending has been raised to $69.5 billion, and that amounts to 6.3 per cent of the budget for 2020. When we look at it, we see that the proportion of those who live under $4.3 in Turkey has reached 1.6. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, our former Prime Minister was here, while he was Minister of Transport, he took care of Turkey's entire infrastructure. Now, with the budget of 2020, hopefully, we'll use the superstructure on that infrastructure to bring Turkey to the throne, and we're sure of it. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) You will have lived through those roads, through those bridges, in the comfort and pleasure of it. Dear friends, while we're developing the economy, we're fighting terrorism. On the one hand, when we fight terrorism, we promise to improve our democracy, develop our democracy, and at the point of justice, new reforms, and a fairer order for our people. Our dear friends, the backbone of our economy, our tradesman, has always been the priority of our AK PARTI governments to gain access to finance and lower financial costs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Three minutes, Mr. President, not a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0097par0136	No, we'll give it a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0096par0138	Low-interest financing for our tradesmen and artists through trade and artist co-ops is available this year for $23 billion and a total of $40 billion. Dear friends, you know that while we're developing the economy, we're constantly fighting terrorism across the border and abroad. Our nation has achieved great success in its firm and decisive stand against terror. Our struggle will continue until the last terrorist is neutralized. Our fight with the PKK and with the PYD and with it continues with God's blessing and with the support of the nation. I wish the blessings of God to all of our martyrs who have died for this land, and long life to our veterans. Dear President, dear friends, I wish that our budget of 2020 would bring blessings to our nation, to our country, to the Lord God, and thank those who have done so.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0098par0142	Thank you. The third word on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group belongs to Mr. Fikri Illum. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0099par0147	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, from 18 November 2002, when the AK PARTI government took over power, with the support of our nation so far, it has dealt with many of our country's chronic issues, taking risks, taking bold steps, and solving many problems as a result of very important, very zealous work. He has implemented serious reforms from economy to politics, foreign policy to social policy, human rights to freedom in many areas. Our nation's support provided the success of the EC PARTY, the success of the EC PARTY, the support of our nation. (AK PARTY) This has been the winner of the supporting-successful cycle, the nation, and the millions of oppressed people who hope for Turkey. So we praise God. Once again, we give thanks to our nation, who have never denied us this support. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, it has just been expressed here, that no party has been given the government budget for the 18th Republic of Turkey in a row since the multiparty took place. This is really, really important for us. Of course, our accomplishments are important. Our achievements are references to new achievements. We, of course, will not dwell on the past, we will not be satisfied with our achievements, and we will continue to work without rest to write new success stories. For in the two days of the Prophet is the loss that is acceptable. The incident is a unique counsel for all of us. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Again, the Master went with yesterday, my dear, about yesterday as much as there were words. / Now you have to say new things... lt's the art of building tomorrow by taking lessons from yesterday, taking advantage of yesterday's experience. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're going through an extraordinary period in the world where uncertainty that exists in almost every area is increasing, where risk and threat are further diversified, and instability is globalized. This planet, which should be dominated by peace, peace, hope, has now unfortunately become the center of fear, anxiety, and anxiety. Human beings destroyed the order of the world with their own hands. As a result, we face many problems that we don't know today, such as climate change, a rapid decline in drinkable clean water supply, air pollution, the danger of extinction of many species. With huge problems to solve, unfortunately, it's becoming increasingly common in politics, populism, racism, discrimination that he has to take responsibility for. While global actors should be fighting these problems together, they're fighting against each other against their own internal political dynamics, not making the effort necessary to protect the trust of future generations above us. From time to time, they can even mock young people who make such an effort. We see that international organisations, such as the United Nations, are very low in activities, almost no more. Mr. President, we are investigating that global competition has shifted from our region to Asia-Pacific, and that the struggle between actors is concentrated not only in economic areas, but also in political and even military areas. In order to get out of the crisis in the second half of the 1970s, the decision to open China to the world economy and further developments caused the sleep giant to awaken and threaten global order in Western hegemonia. China's economic rise, the political influence of this rise, the expansion and expansion of moves, the attempt to guarantee both energy supply security and markets, especially with the Belt and Road Project, has made the whole West, particularly the U.S., seriously nervous or even frightened. In the next decade, China is supposed to be the world's largest economy. This is the biggest and most important threat to the world reserve currency of US dollars so far to the throne of dollars. Of course, China's currency, which weighs 20 per cent in the world economy, is 60 per cent in the world's reserve currency, and the world's economy is about 20 per cent in the world's economy. Here's actually the basis of the American-Chinese trade wars is the imbalance in this reserve currency. Although there is a ceasefire from time to time, it is not a prophecy to predict that the American-Chinese trade wars will continue, especially after the American elections in November 2020. The siege of China, slowing down its economy, limiting political and military influence in the region, has now become the first priority of the United States. So now the Indo-Pacific Ocean is the center of global warfare. Developments in Hong Kong have made it clear that China's Taiwanese policy, the conflicts in the South China Sea, and the artificial islands created may not only remain in economic and political dimensions, but should not be ignored the risk of being taken into a military dimension at all times. In addition to the improvements that I've just tried to make, especially in developed countries, the rise in debt levels of governments, courtship and trade wars, the understanding of protective economics has increased global stagnation, which means resession concerns more and more every day. Also, the stunning advances in technology -- which I'm about to attempt to enter into -- are fueling security concerns at both the individual and the national level. All of these concerns cause almost the entire world to increase military spending, to devote more resources to defence and security. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this period of uncertainty and new geopolitical developments present new threats to both our country and humanity, but also new opportunities. There's a very good saying that pessimists see every opportunity as a threat, and if they're optimistic, they see every threat as an opportunity. It's a cautious optimism that suits Turkey. First, we need to look for ways to take advantage of regional and global risks and threats. Again, another good word is that opportunities are for prepared brains. There is a lot of money in Turkey to take advantage of opportunities, as long as we use it in the right time, in the right time and in the right way. Our awareness of being a nation with all our ethnic and religious elements is our common history; in Çanakkale, in the Salvation War, in July 15th, as in the treacherous coup attempt, the noble attitude and the thousands of years of state tradition are enough for us to look to the future with confidence, of course, without leaving out the best of its mission, in the expression of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, today there are stunning advances in technology. Every morning we wake up to new discoveries, discoveries, discoveries that make human life easier, but at times they terrify you. Things aren't the same anymore. Technology is radically changing our way of life, our way of life, our way of working, production, food, entertainment. Technology is driving people away from each other, making machines talk to each other. Now, advanced robots do a lot of work that require muscle. Especially in the dense sectors of labor, robots make people lose their bread. Hence, in some developed countries, taxing robots who replace humans in order to prevent the social security system from collapsing. Humanoid robots designed to serve the elderly. Special prosthetics for people with limb loss can easily be produced in 3-D printers and replaced with that limb. It's designed to detect signals from the brain, transform command, allowing many disabled people to live a normal life. Autonomial vehicles are disrupting the memory in many areas, including cargo, weapons, man-bearing drones, transportation. Access to information provides considerable opportunities in all areas, especially education and health, for both the facilitation of its costs and its cost. Many of the devices we use now have the most important cost-effect software. In particular, the famous physicist Stephan Hawking will be the latest invention of mankind. We watch their advances in artificial intelligence, sometimes in awe, sometimes in awe, sometimes in horror. For example, the diagnosis rate of certain types of cancers by doctors, the human element, is up to 65%, while the rate of identification by artificial intelligence is up to 98 percent. There's almost no area where artificial intelligence doesn't enter from production to space studies. Currently, the United States spends about 500 billion dollars a year on RD. About one third of this RD spending is done in the field of artificial intelligence. Because recently, two robots working with artificial intelligence were discovered to be speaking in a language that their software didn't know about, and their chips were pulled out of fear. We're going to a world like this. My dear friends, one of the current discussions is the question of whether nuclear weapons are more dangerous, artificial, and intelligent? For secure communication, information that is coded and unbreakable is known to break and break very quickly with quantum computers. Now, the world is discussing when humans will set foot on Mars, and when life will begin on Mars. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we see that technological developments include all areas from food security to data security, individual security to national security. Cyber strikes are not only targeting countries' military, economic, social infrastructure, they can even change political and social order by interfering with the formation of countries' decision-making mechanisms. We're in a time when thousands of killer drones thrown out of a transport plane can destroy thousands of soldiers at their destination. The concern that GPS satellites, which are not only used for military purposes, can be hit hundreds of miles away by laser weapons, is both a great fear and a challenge to their reliable alternative search. Replicating these examples is possible to give dozens, hundreds of examples. Today's world is no safer than yesterday. Looks like tomorrow won't be any safer than today. So, are we ready for tomorrow? By looking at where a country is going to be tomorrow, what areas it's focusing on today, we can easily tell. The only way to exist in the future world is not in the league that consumes science and technology, but in the league that produces science and technology itself. Mr. President, in the past 17 years, Turkey has invested very seriously in these areas during the AK PARTI rule, has divided serious resources, has given serious support to RD and innovation, and continues to give. The recognition of what is done is due to justice. Well, is it enough? Of course not. In science and technology, it's a big mistake to see enough of what's done while competing against it, and the price is high. Of course, we have a long way to go. The key to countering the threats I've just tried to express in terms of science and technology, R&D and innovation is the quality of manpower, which is the best use of opportunities. It is possible to give examples of dozens of countries in which most of their people live in debacle, even though they have subterranean wealth, but it is impossible to give a single example of a significant part of the country's people living in poverty, although there is no subterranean wealth. The subject of the universe is human. It is for him that one of the most fundamental distinguishing qualities of our civilization is to keep man alive so that the state can live. It's about people, it's about people. An investment in human beings is an investment in the future. Lord Ali, raise your children not according to your time, but according to their time. He commands you. Turkey's top priority is education; justice, security, prosperity, peace is provided only with good and quality education. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've had significant distances in education during the AK PARTY administration. In particular, I would say that the quantity problem in education has been solved greatly. In many areas, such as our girls' schooling rates, especially other schooling rates, the number of teachers, the physical conditions of schools, the number of students per school, the number of teachers per student body, the use of technology in education, have been revolutionised during the EC PARTI period. Once again, with the approval and approval of our Parliament, we allocate the most funding from our budget every year to our Ministry of National Education. We're all aware that we have more distance to take at the point of quality of education. I'd like to say once again that we appreciate our ministry's work on this and that we've always supported it. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are also radical changes in education in this period of time when everything has changed, the world, the age, the habits, the way they produce, the only thing that hasn't changed is change. If we don't want to turn the world we live in into hell with our own hands, where it's so easy to destroy, to destroy, to destroy, to destroy, to destroy, to make it so easy, we need to focus on the education of values as human beings. We have to work harder to raise virtuous people. It is as if the violence against our women, our children, and even our disabled ones were not on the agenda, that women's killings were on our hearts every day, killing all the people who killed a human being. We need to consider as a whole society why their basic motto does not exist. Our priority is not to raise a very knowledgeable person, but to raise a very good person. In this age when knowledge is so easy, the principle of the pyramid of education must be education in values, and we need to put skill training on it right away. We have to raise individuals who are equipped with our values of civilization, confident, open to the world, analytic, determined and patient. Moreover, we need to be more concerned about coding in preparation for the near future, where a young person who does not know how to write code becomes illiterate. Mr. President, good lawmakers, production based on high-value RD and innovation is essential for Turkey's sustainable growth, increased prosperity, economic and political stability. In today's global climate, I don't see a chance for a country to grow up on the scale of Turkey by winning from its pack. We have to be innovative in all areas of production, even in the service sector; we have to work every day for better, better quality, more affordable products and services. For we are in the waste of two days. We are part of his understanding. I've just said that Turkey should be in the league of countries that produce science and technology; we should be in the field, not in the audience; that's what suits us. For this, we know that you have very important duties for our universities, for our public and private sector. We know that our private sector has invested a lot of serious resources in this area in recent years, made serious investments, conducted very important studies. We also take advantage of our government's support and appreciate the growing efforts of the private sector in the field of RD and innovation. After the RD reform law, which was adopted with your support and approval, the number of private sector RD centers has exceeded 1,200, and the number of design centers has exceeded 350. Tens of thousands of young people are doing RDs in our thousands of companies in our techno parks, where the numbers are 85. The public side, with support and incentives, makes the private sector more concentrated in this area. Turkey's RD spending is increasing year after year; this is reflected in areas such as patents and useful models. Of course, it's not possible for us to see enough of RD and innovation. Turkey's problem is not the resource problem; Turkey's problem is the quality problem in RD. And hopefully we'll solve this problem by working hard over time, by strengthening our ecosystem. In both basic and practical sciences, the main production bases of information are universities and research centres. Today, there are more than 200,000,000 universities and over 8 million college students in our country. In this sense, education, one of our republic's most basic goals, has been largely equal opportunity. But we have to express with regret that we have not yet overcome the quality problem at the university. Look, we support the NGO's work on this issue, but a G20 member Turkey is the 13th-century country in the world at its purchasing power parite, but the first 100, the first 250, or even some of the first 400, is a Turkey without a single Turkish university. We must all work very seriously on this and think, and together we must implement a higher education reform under the leadership of this great Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, in the field of R&D and innovation, we need to strengthen our ecosystem, focus on international cooperation, especially on the thought of Turkish researchers around the world, and make more use of their savings. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Turkey must always be strong, careful and determined in defence and security due to its geostrategic position.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0100par0178	Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0099par0179	The state authority in our region has been lost or largely weakened, the wars of power, the terror networks used as a tool for destabilisation of countries, the governments that terrorize them, or the states that make a number of attractions to expand the influence field, always force us to be vigilant. ▪ Bad neighbor makes a host of people. We saw in the Cyprus Peace Corps how well the proverb was fulfilled. The domestic and national defense industry movement, which began in the early years of our Republic, unfortunately, was then cut for political reasons, but it was found on Operation 1974 that it was no joke and that the experience of Operation 1974, that painful experience, gave us sweet fruit, such as ASELSAN, TUSSASAN, HAELSAN. Well, at this point, we have to pay more attention. Mr. President, especially the defense industry is a real success story of the AK PARTY power. In 17 years led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey has made a major revolution in the defence industry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one last...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0101par0184	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0099par0185	Turkey has raised its domesticity rate in 24 per cent to over 65 per cent and has provided a serious increase in quality. At this point, indeed, Turkey has become much more qualified at the point of openly challenging all threats against Turkey, particularly the fight against terrorism. So, at these points, we have to continue our work without stopping to rest. Under the developing circumstances, renewing our defense concept seems like a necessity. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there's a lot of work to be done with this budget. I thank all my fellow workers. I pray that the new year, which we will enter in ten days, will be good for our nation, and will bring peace and blessings and peace for all mankind. I now wish our budget, which I believe will be accepted with your support, to the best of our country, to the nation, to the highest Assembly, to the highest Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0101par0188	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0101par0190	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0191	Mr. President, I have a request for a word according to 60, with very little of your appreciation.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0101par0192	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I have to say, members of the EC PARTY, that the Republican People's Party's budget talks -- economics, social, legal, cultural, education, healthcare, agriculture, and the budget -- have failed to bring a concrete, clear response in the past, as Mr. Naci Bostancı spoke today. Because, Mr. Bostanci, you almost have an eyebrow over your eye. He gave a speech. Mr. Kesici is a political success, but there is economic failure. I think it's his own contradiction to consider it a major contradiction, in this regard: Yes, the AK PARTI has been a burden on society for 17 years, but there was an end to it as well as the end of it all. I think what the nation said, Mr. Bostanci jumped out of the country or in those days, we don't know that Mr. Bostanci cut off his political loan in the renewed Istanbul elections, and in this way you've lost the taste of it, I'm confiscating his driver's license. I think he said, Mr. Bostanist jumped out of the country or was out of the country in those days, and we don't know that he's still insane in eight minutes of his 20-minute speech, using his testimony to Mr. Kesici.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0101par0198	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0199	I thank him, Mr. Kesici, on this occasion as Deputy Group Chairman, for this beautiful speech. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, I find that the ruling party, rather than defending the budget, is critical of the opposition. That's a hell of a contradiction. Today, Mr. Turan has just expressed our budget. Yes, this budget is also the budget of the AK PARTY, although it is perceived as the budget of the administration, as well as the budget of the EC PARTY. All numbers used by Mr. Ilhan Kesici are already official figures of the state, the figures of public institutions and organizations. Of course, Mr. Bostanci would not have been able to refute those figures; and since he was not in a position to criticize Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I understand his criticism of Mr. Kesici. We don't have any criticism of that, because the state of the country is out there. Again, a contradiction is within itself, but we need to tell you that he said to us: "You are going to the village, sir. You say, 'Buğday is cheap.'"
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0103par0204	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0205	You go down to the city, and you say bread is expensive. He said. Mr. President, yes, that's right; it's true that agriculture is supported in all the countries of the world, so there's a concept called subsidies. Since Mr. Bostanist is a philosopher, he may have been a bit distant from economic concepts, but since you don't give the farmer one percent of the illegitimate domestic product, wheat is cheap, bread is expensive; diesel, fertilizer, seed, medicine, foody input costs, TIT, VAT, wheat is cheap, bread is expensive. I wish you'd buy KTV and VAT from the diamonds and yachts and the farmer's intakes down, so we can't go to the village and say your wheat is cheap. (HPP) Because you abandoned strategic products at the mercy of the merchant, the farmer and the peasant at the mercy of the loan shark, wheat is cheap, bread is expensive in this country. So the fact that wheat is cheap and bread is expensive is not a contradiction, it's an AK PARTY freak. We need to underline that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0103par0207	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0208	How can you not watch Erdogan's meetings? When Erdogan started the meetings, Turkey watched not only us, but 82 million, paşa paşa, Erdoğan on all TV channels morning, noon and evening. But something happened in the last campaign, Erdogan's meetings began to delay. When Erdogan's meetings were delayed three hours before he left, when he had so many private planes, with so many government opportunities, 3,000 guards, we called our agencies in that province, and we said, "Why isn't this rally starting?" They said: "Sister, Mr. President has arrived, in the hotel; the square is empty; the meetings are delayed for him." (PPP and GOOD PARTY) Let me remind Mr. Bostancı of that. Let's end this discussion: We call it the didictator, we call it the one man, you get angry; I don't think you should be angry, shut down the Turkish Language Foundation. It's not us, it's the Turkish Language Foundation. I remind you again, whoever holds all political authority, that's the word you're angry with.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0103par0211	Let's complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0212	You have no choice but to shut down the Turkish Language Foundation. No, all political powers are not for Erdogan, but for us. If you say so, let us know.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0104par0213	Do you have the authority?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0102par0214	We want to know, we can't see him. The debate of legitimacy is an important argument. There is a legal basis for legitimacy, a basis for conscience. Sometimes you're legally legitimate, morally illegitimate. You'll be seen, perceived, but I'll tell you something -- if you don't obey your oath, you're both legally and morally illegitimate. I want to underline that, too. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0105par0217	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0106par0219	Mr. President, thank you. I'm not a philosopher, I'm a property graduate. Political science, social sciences...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0107par0221	No, no one knows philosophy like you do.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0106par0222	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0107par0223	There's also Ismet Abi. There's no one else here who knows like you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0106par0224	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're trying to share what we know on modest scales, Mr. Engin. It's not what we know, it's what we're trying to tell you. Our people are ephemeral, and half knows how to complete what we tell them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In that regard, I expressed this issue of the odd man as a redundant slogan. In fact, there's something else I should say, Mr. Altay, while I'm at it, there are three volumes of the book Sevket Tayyya Aydemir.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0107par0227	We're not bothered by one man, why bother?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0106par0228	Friends must have read it, and I'm guessing the Republican People's Party has a very dominant place in collective memory. The friends know who Sevket Tayya Aydemir was talking about with the One Man, and I think there's that kind of identity in the background, in the subconscious.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0108par0229	I have longing, longing...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0106par0230	Third of all, this review thing... you've criticized us, of course, your criticism, we want to take advantage of it; there's no problem.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0109par0231	You're on the defense.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0106par0232	Let us criticize you, and you may benefit from it. There's no harm in criticizing each other.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0109par0233	Oh, no, not at all.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0106par0234	Besides, Mr. Ilhan is an old friend of ours, so let's keep the law between us. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0110par0237	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0111par0238	Mr. President, sir, very short...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0110par0239	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0111par0241	We didn't say that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was a couple of men; that he was the sole founder of the republic -- I'm sure everyone would agree that he was also Mr. Bostanci. However, it's always been compared to that period; let me say something very clear and sincere, and this discussion ends: in the period from the founding of our Republic, from 1923 to 1950, the Republican People's Party was a state party in 27 years; I accept this, but you are now a party of parties. The terms of being a state party were a necessity, but it's dangerous to be a party state; that's where it leads to dangerous things, opening doors. I'll give you a thousand examples if you nod, but I wish we could see the state morality of the Republican People's Party at that time in the AK PARTY after 2008. I've always said, and I'll tell you here: you've mutated in 2008, you've changed; you're no longer AK PARTY on the day you were founded. People are seeing it, and I hope you're seeing it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0112par0244	You're the same!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit03spe0113par0245	Thank you. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0113par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. The first statement on behalf of the Good PARTI Group now belongs to Mr. İsmail Tatüoğlu, MP. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0114par0012	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I'm here to share with you the opinion of 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Computation Act Proposal on the Good PARTI. In the name of my party and myself, I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. Very valuable lawmakers, to govern, to run a budget. Therefore, budgetary rights are essentially older than Parliament and are the basis of democracies. Today's budget, this budget, the 97th budget of our republic, and as of our historicality in this framework, there is a history of contracting between Hakan and the community and then to Magna Carta. This budget is asking us for a warrant, and it says, "Give me a billion and 95 billion dollars' worth of spending." In order to meet this, give me the power to raise $957 billion in revenues and to run this budget in an account worth $139 billion. To tell you the truth, we've heard very little talk today about the budget's technique in budget talks. The budget is basically a political text. I'd like to make a point or point out our point of view. In fact, we are in Parliament, which is based on the election of June 24, 2018, and that budget is the right of that Parliament. That election did not authorize any party in Parliament to budget on its own. The coalition, in its former term, is an alliance budget, so the budget of 2019 and the budget of 2020 is an alliance budget, which is the truth, because with a system change in the outcome of the referendum on 16 April 2017, Mr. Erdoğan was elected President on 24 June, and therefore has a political union. June 24, 2018 elections, for the first time, I am not authorizing you to budget alone. That's how you determine this national will and make that determination. Therefore, this is not the 18th EC PARTY budget; this is the 2nd budget of an alliance under the presidential government system. The result of the June 24th election was this, and the process continued in the following elections. Now, we want to move from here to say that we don't have the means to abuse or praise. What have we got here? Let's just say we saw it. So what we see is exactly what we see in the numbers of the state, in the numbers of the academia, in the numbers of the public. Dear friends, we need to make a determination as to where we are. What economic environment is being budgeted in, and essentially, what is this budget, what is its mathematics, what is its philosophy, what is its mission, what is it that Turkey is saying, where does it want to move it; all of this is in the budget, because when you remove the budget, there is no other text, no road map in democratic regimes. Now, to look very quickly... look, as a whole, when we divide between 1960 and 2020 into five-year periods, there are 12 five-year periods. The last five years have been the 11th of these 12 periods in Turkey since 2016-2020. It is better than 3.3 percent to 1976-1980 in terms of growth alone -- there is a 2.5 per cent growth in that period -- but although we acknowledge that the development plan and budget target for growth of 5 per cent has been achieved, the last five years of growth is at the 11th. For this reason, the economic structure and development in Turkey, to be precise, has been in a negative dissolution since 2008, when you compare it to the developing countries in our own line and in our own. What did we say? What to disparage or praise, including 2002-2007, is, in fact, Turkey's brightest second five years as of those five-year periods, a very valuable period, but from 2008, a period of negative dissolution. We've stated the reasons for this before, but I'm not going to dwell on it now. The presidential government system's growth of the last two years is 1.5 per cent, the average of 2018 and 2019 results is 1.5 per cent. This is not a growth that will carry Turkey. If we think of Turkey as a bicycle, it needs to grow by 5 per cent to survive, Turkey's normality is 7 per cent, and Turkey has the power to grow 7 per cent. Turkey can be created in terms, vehicles and atmosphere that will lead to or raise Turkey to 7 per cent growth, which has happened in the past. But that's not where we've been for the last ten years. Another thing, inflation. My dear friends, Mr. Light has spoken of conjunctural developments, he has not mentioned the budget, but economics, inflation is no longer a macroeconomic problem in the world, which is no longer an important problem. Two-digit inflation figures are valid in an economic atmosphere of an economic extraordinary state. Look, all the world's developments have been like this since 2000. In unemployment and inflation, unfortunately, we're after Argentina in OECD. It's obvious why it's Argentina. What about unemployment? Dear friends, as a whole in the history of the Republic, the worst ten years and five worst years. There's a reason, because Turkey grew up after 2010, didn't it? He grew up, but he grew up inferior, Turkey. It's the recipe for all the experts and academia. What do you mean, growing up tacky? You grow up, but you can't restrain inflation and unemployment; it's an unemployable growth, some call it the Dutch disease. It's growth, it's growth that doesn't create jobs, and it plugs up after a while, and it plugs up. At the point where we came in -- Mr. Slasher also described it with very valuable figures -- look, we're back to 2002. In my speech last year, I said we're falling behind 2007, this time we're falling behind 2002, we're going down in the main numbers. See, in 2002, Turkey's external debt has a national income rate of 54 per cent; this is down to 36 per cent, success achieved, but today 62 per cent. That means we owe $460 billion outside. Today, we have to pay more than 5 per cent interest, more or less. If there was a government that would reduce Turkey's risk premium, Turkey's economic management would change, and there was an economic management that would give it confidence -- let me be very clear -- if he said: "Mr. Kescier, come build a team." Mr. Yilmaz, set up a team. What's two points? That's $9.2 billion for Turkey. Look, every year we take out one Canal Istanbul -- in the words of Mr. Kesici -- we take out two Ataturk Dams. He said something very appropriate, Mr. Light, thank you. Today, growth is not a matter of resources; today, growth is a matter of data. Yes, it was a matter of resources a quarter of a century ago, but today is very different. Look, the latest developments in the world since 2004 have increased twice as much in the world's goods trade, capital development has increased by 35 percent, but data flow has increased by 5,500 times. Today, what's an external economy, what's an open society? Outer society doesn't mean selling goods, buying goods; today, the open society means a society integrated into global data flow, and we have to invest at least $25 billion in infrastructure to do that. We've stopped at 200,000 kilometers, we've got to make it two and a half million miles. We can't go forward without doing this. Because what we call the economics of knowledge today is the main reason for growth. We used to talk about it before -- our friends who talk about economics and listeners -- the function of saving growth. Today, growth is no longer the function of saving so much; growth is the function of knowledge. So, of course, you're going to have to set up a basis for bringing foreign investment to your country, and we're going to prepare it, but the main thing is to prepare the atmosphere to bring information to the country and keep it alive. In what environments does this information reside, and in what environments does it live? It's not an incentive to go through that. The book says: "Follow the footsteps of the people to find their political ideas. Where do you want to live?" The question is, "What political environment do you want to be in?" Let's ask ourselves: Where would we like to live without Turkey? God forbid, we had to, somewhere else, where is it? Well, that's the spirit of politics. Our seven families are European citizens, citizens of the United States, our contacts, no other way. In this framework, we have to keep the information here. There's no point in putting 1,700,000 students up to 7,700,000 without extra expenses and stockpiling unemployment around here like September 12th. I was an assistant, a pasha came from the YÖK, and we had an amp of 20 people, and there were entrances here and there. He said to the dean: "You will lift this last row, the last place, the stairs. What are we going to do? You will line up here, and we will put students here." Now, there's no big difference between that day and today's concept of college. This college, this college concept, it's not gonna come out of it. We really need to change this atmosphere in that sense. Look, dear friends, we were talking in the 1980s; we were with China, with Korea. In the 2000s, we were with Romania, Poland, Malaysia, and even behind us, but today Romania, Poland and Malaysia are two times the national income of Turkey, 50 per cent, 100 per cent. There's got to be a reason, and there's a reason. That's not why we can't catch him. How did we catch him in 2008? Whatever we left after 2008, this is what we need to regroup. Now, look, we have to reform the revenue and spending aspects of the budget in Turkey. I told you last year, I said, if the Austrians, the Australians, were paying for this budget, there wouldn't be this many companies. I mean, it probably hasn't been heard, so what's going to happen? But by the IMF definition, there are 165 billion minimum budget deficits, not 120 billion budget deficits from 80.6. Their temporary, once-in-a-lifetime income doesn't count as the income of the budget. So now, look, our tax system -- there's 234 taxes -- it doesn't fit the law. And for God's sake, look at the rate of tax collection, take it down, download it from its own Finance Ministry website, how low the collection rate has dropped. What's going on? We start taxing the poor, the poor, the middle-income. We can't go out with this, and that's the expense. We have 61 million people over 15 in social security in Turkey. We've got 33 million working force, 28 million working. We have 21.5 million registered employees. We've got 13 million pensioners. Does that carry the pensioners, $21.5 million? I mean, 20 people work, 13 pensioners, and they're gonna take care of themselves. Now, look, in 2002, the rate of revenues of the SGK was 71.5 per cent. We reformed in 2008. Look, we're saying this is -6 to 7 million - we've left out the YIT people. You know what today is? Spare me the government contribution, 73 percent. We're not going anywhere, we're in the same place. We have a $218 billion social security deficit. So with this budget, with this income, with this spending structure, we can't do it. What should we do? Look, very dear friends, a country like Turkey, not 21.5 million people, has to make 38 million people registered to the SGK. So what we're looking at is we're not saying there's so many unemployed people. We say 15 million, 16 million of our people don't have the power to produce. But it's not that hard. Let me give you an example. Look, we're giving out loans for employment. We're saying that if you hire five people, $200,000 will give you two years of non-payment loans. Let's say a company gets $200,000, it's going to run two people. He doesn't need it, but if he hires two people, he'll get the money. The cost of two people is 84 thousand liras per year, and the interest of 30,000 liras from 15 per cent is 114,000 liras. Look where the interest is coming from, folks, $200,000. We say increase the number of employees in the kitchen before we increase the sale of the soup guy. What does that do? It'll sink the soup guy. We can't increase production like this. But the world says, do we know: Grow up over the KKOBI? Our low-income SMEs, our low-tech COBIs. On average, we have 3.1 people working. We have 3 million SMEs in KOBI. Six people in the world work, and we have 3.1. But if we increase one click of our technology, it goes up to six employees. We have 3,1; it goes up to 5.5. So let alone 3 million of this, if we do it at 1.5 million SMEs, we'll employ about 5 or 6 million of our people. Look, this job thing is important. He's walking with knowledge and technology now. It was a myth: Master, technology is coming, unemployment has taken its head off. The world has finished it. In Germany, where there is technology, unemployment has fallen below 4 percent. That's how he fell all over the country. Look, here's what's wrong with us: there's no unemployment for illiterates, and there's little unemployment for elementary school graduates, and there's more unemployment as education goes up. What does that mean? Our production is not based on that, so it's very conservative. That's the story of the '90s. That's the story of the '60s in the '50s. We can't read this world like this now. So, how do we read it now? We're talking about a structural blockage, that's what we're getting at. It's not just an economic, technical problem, it's a structural blockage. So that's our foreign policy. According to 2010, is our passport worth more today or is it worth more in 2010? I don't want to answer that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need four minutes, sir. One at a time, five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0115par0034	Mr. Dessertoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0114par0035	We need to question that. How much I wanted to do this, I went abroad a lot, in 2008, 2010, there was a Turkey that I was proud of, but there was a Turkey that I was very upset about. I'm being questioned, I'm being questioned with my MP's passport, and you're being questioned. This isn't who we are, and this is never gonna happen; we're gonna get out of here. The law, the Bismillah of development, we can't do anything. Bismillah al-Rahmanir-Rahrim... the rule of law, the glory of development. We're going to dominate the law, we're going to place the meritocracy, we're going to place the merits at the center, and we're going to use the smart power of Turkey. What is this? Intellectual capital and economic geography. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our faith in Turkey's intellectual capital is why we make politics, and therefore we say that Turkey has everything it needs to be a strong country in Turkey, and we all have it. I agree with Mr. Kesici's 20 from this country... we can all write quality, first-class executive class. We can write from both of you and from this, as long as we call from here. But if we don't call from here, the common conscience leads us to the wrong place. Individually, we're all angels. But when we come to the common sense, our necks will be twisted, and we will be called to account before Allah and before Him. In this sense, we can't be a country that can't plan our human capital. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The end...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0116par0041	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0114par0042	My dear members of Parliament, my dear fellow lawmakers, Turkey has the strength to overcome these structural blockages. This power is motivated by our nation, and it will continue. Turkey, that's what we're getting into... Look, let me tell you something else, this is about the presidential government system. Nothing has been done to institutionalize this. Our quality of making laws is crawling down the drain. We were in the Commission together yesterday, guys. Now we've forgotten the language of lawmaking. I believe that I see it as a flaw in the beliefs of the parties that brought this. Or do they not have complete faith in the Qur'an? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir. From here, Turkey will come out with a improved parliamentary system with structural reforms. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0117par0049	Thank you. The second word for the group belongs to the Group's Deputy President and İzmir MP Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0118par0054	Mr. President, I'm here to announce the opinion and opinion of the good PARTI, of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute our High Council and our beloved nation with my sincerest feelings. At the beginning of my words, I would like to express my gratitude to our MPs, our esteemed parliamentary bureaucrats, our group staff, and the poor members of the House, who have performed a superior performance in the process of the commission's work and in the negotiations at the General Assembly. As it is known, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the only Parliament with the title of Shazi Parliament, has been able to act consciously on the responsibility that history has imposed on it from its very first day. Under this responsibility, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will preserve its rights and freedoms, freedom of expression, and the will to maintain justice under the state. The government is a unconditional nation. It is the duty of the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure that the sovereignty of the nation will not be left to any person, institution, community or class under any circumstances, and to ensure that the nation's will be granted in accordance with national interests. Another important responsibility for the Turkish Grand National Assembly against its nation is the issue of where taxes are to be collected from the citizen. In essence, the taxation arrangements and the audits of the pens spent on these taxes are one of the most important tasks of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. If our great House has lost its power of tax and spending, then this great Parliament has lost its authority and has been pushed aside. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must act on its own merits, firstly, knowing that the supreme will is its superior institution. Although the authority and responsibilities of our parliament are restricted by the administration of its superior will and qualifications, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will, of course, defend the rights and the law of the people it represents with the sense of responsibility that history has given it. Mr. President, we've been discussing the budget, discussing the budget, under this great roof for days. Oppositions have tried to explain that the budget is poor and that there is no cure for any trouble, and the reasonable ones have tried to explain that the budget is the nation's budget, and that the solution to every problem is within that budget. As a result, this budget is the government's budget. There are no citizens in this budget; there are no pensioners, widows, orphans; there are no workers, peasants, farmers; there are no tradesmen, merchants, industrialists; there are no appointed teachers, pensioners, courters, and those who can't find work. This budget is based on how to pay wages, how to receive social benefits, how to close interest, how to answer contractors' expectations. In short, we're dealing with a budget that lacks vision, can't determine its mission, can't reveal its goals. The sum of expenses in the bill is 1 trillion 95 million. This reminds me of the words of our late President, Süleyman Demirel, that one day during his prime minister's term, Turkey will make a trillion-year budget. But it wasn't a zero at the time. If we're talking about trillion-dollar expenses again today, it needs to be answered why we're throwing 6 zeroes out of our money. I'm asking you, if it's the old ham, it's the old bowl, why did you throw six zeroes out of the money? It's just a sign of how badly the economy is managed. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are only $64 billion in investments in a budget of 956 billion and 600 million. The budget deficit envisioned in the 2019 budget proposal was estimated at 80 billion, at 139 billion. If you add the Central Bank reserve accent, the amount from the zoning pardon, and the contributions from the priced military, you will find that the budget deficit is over 180 billion. Now, you're predicting a $139 billion deficit in the 2020 budget bid. If you keep plowing around like last year, next year's deficit will be well over 200 billion. You're drawing a beautiful picture. The share of interest costs in the budget is increasing year by year. The share of indirect taxes that directly affect income injustice is also increasing in the total tax revenues. Since indirect taxes are collected equally, regardless of the income level, the increase in the rate of these taxes continues to deepen the dividend of income and injustice. 20 per cent of Turkey receives 47 per cent of its income. Each child is born with $5,500 in debt. We almost had a drum roll because we were a few steps up in the developmental order. You keep the flashlight where you want to light it. I'd like to shed some light on where you're trying to leave it in the dark. Turkey is ranked as the 70th in 2002, while it ranks 81st in the national income ranking. Our share of the world's national income -- I'm going back a long way -- is 0.86 percent in 1960 when it was over 1 percent. That day we were in the 20th place, and today we will be 20th place as of next year. According to the times, unemployment average was around 8 per cent, while today it was close to 15 per cent. The number of unemployed university graduates was 12.9, while today it is 27.5 per cent. Turkey's gross foreign debt stockpile was 54.8 per cent of the informal domestic in 2002, while today it is 61.9 per cent. Turkey ranked 157 in the World Press Freedom Index, 109 in the Rule of Law Index, 104 in judicial independence, 110 in the Democracy Index. The European Court of Human Rights has reached 3.128 walls, where Turkey is also at its peak in its appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in violation of rights. The number of cases filed against the president for defamation is around 17,500. When the last 32 years have been examined, 91 per cent of the cases have come into contact with Mr. Erdogan. It will be understood to us how intolerant we are, considering the 340th, and the 207th, and the 158th of Demirel. If the world had a tolerance index, we'd be the last of it. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the GDP share of agriculture is 10.3 per cent in 2002, while it is 5.7. 500,000 people have given up farming because they can't afford to pay for the sweat they've put in the ground. The number of fertile land that cannot be planted due to wrong agricultural policies is the face measurement of the Netherlands. Many industrial companies have turned off the switch. Bankruptcy, concordatoes chasing each other. The shop closes its shutters, deals with its debts. The number of processing and foreclosure files has increased to over 20 million. I mean, as a matter of fact, you can't be too proud of your work. You've been trying to polish yourself for 17 years by discrediting the past. You're saying that in our era, we've jumped the age. We've gathered the two sides of the state. Let's discuss the budgets we've brought in. Why? Budgets don't mean anything. There's no point in making up a budget like a painting made out of water paint. The budget that's been brought in doesn't mean anything because new budgets are being brought in with new tax packets, constantly changing over the year, and at the end of the year, there's a different result. What's the budget for? To ensure economic stability in the country, to reduce inflation, to prevent unemployment, to improve development, to improve revenue distribution, to increase exports. But in the budgets brought in, it's the opposite. How much new taxes will come out next year, how much will the public products rise, and none of them will be included in this budget. The tax revenue per capita in 2002 was $640. The tax revenue per capita in 2020 is $1,650. Do you know what the bottom prices will be in the budget? No. Do you know what the price of electricity is going to be? No. Do you know what the gas prices are going to be? No. Is there going to be new taxes or not? No. Is there going to be a change in tax rates? No. Will the revenue and income increase by taxes on income and income? No. Will the indirect taxes be reduced? No. Will tax justice be served? No. Will income distribution diminish injustice? No. So, what have you guys been up to in 17 years? In front of the national lottery dealerships in the middle of the week, in front of the six-carbon dealerships, in front of the toto and lotto dealerships, in front of the national lottery dealerships. It wasn't enough, you made it wait in front of the theme tents in the cold of winter, in the cold of winter, in front of the potatoes, in front of the onion tails. We've expanded the government budget. You keep telling me. The only thing you've raised is the burden of taxes and debt on the citizen. What do we see when we look at the illegal domestic product related to the budget? We see a medium-scale economy going from 700 to 800 billion dollars. You're using a thousand different maneuvers to avoid lowering per capita income by simply changing the method of computation, which can't increase per person's income. Inflation, unemployment, open transactions, we see the same numbers game. Cari, at prices, we say the country's economy is growing, but when we look at international norms, both the budget size and the domestic product are shrinking. In 2018 and 2019, we had a rose-colored period. If we look at the Minister's performance, we can go to an assessment: we're champions in inflation, we're champions in unemployment, we're champions in budget deficits, we're champions in raising debts, we're champions in lowering investments, we're champions in increasing interest payments, we're champions in debt. I'd say he collected all the medals, set a record after a record. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] The budget of 2020 only means that from our point of view, the future holds a mirror and Turkey's economy -- I'm telling you for the next period -- poses a danger of searching 2019. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this budget is the budget of Mr. President's Government. Mr. President, they have not participated in talks in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, even though they have no alibi since the negotiations began. They presented the budget with his assistant's skill, and it seems they're going to defend it again through his assistant. Basically, the President doesn't need Parliament, maybe he's right not to. Even if this budget is rejected by the House, nothing will change for him. He'll move on by putting a percentage of his powers above the old budget. So the struggle that we're fighting, starting with the commission in a brutal way, is of no importance to him personally. All we have to do is try to protect the reputation of the House, which has been neutralized and restricted. We will continue to fight to protect the reputation of the House. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, so far, many problems have been discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the process of budget negotiations. Political parties' spokesman for the economic and social issues facing Turkey have expressed their views and opinions. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to point out something that's never been mentioned. Our constitution has made its duty to provide the Court with sufficient and adequate reports to the Turkish Parliament and to oversee the revenues and goods of state institutions on behalf of the Turkish nation. The Court reports show that there are many corruption, irregularities and waste in the administration of state institutions. In the 2018 Court reports, accounting records on possible future revenues have not been reflected in the Istanbul Strait Road Tube Pass project, which is the Eurasia Tunnel Project. This is from the Court's report. The report revealed that the disbursed revenues are more than the investment cost. The Court's data found that the revenues account for the years to come appears to be missing 17 billion,575 million dollars, and this is explained in the report. What is the outcome of the 17 billion, 575 million liras that are missing from people's purses? We owe it to the Turkish nation to ask. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Another 60m euros in grants from the European Union for Syrian asylum seekers have been found unregistered, according to court audit reports 2018. The Finnish Immigration Directorate has not registered the money it has received for projects against asylum seekers in Turkey. What has been 60m euros, or 381m euros? And we owe it to ourselves to pay for it. Again, according to the Court report, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications paid $658m to the contractor for a project. In return, the cost of manufacturing is approximately 231 million liras. In other words, the contractor paid 658 million, 2.8 times more for the work that cost about $2231 million. What happened to $426 million from the people's pouch to the side? AS A GOOD PARTY, we owe it to our nation to answer for it. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, the public-private cooperation initiatives, which are considered to be a do-and-do-work initiatives today, which are called the "work-work-development" in its name, are another address of corruption, waste in our country. The post-2003 public-private cooperation model, a key tool in the power's hands, has been moved far beyond the preferences of advanced technology or the exceptions of service, and has been transformed into a method of subsidiary resource transfer. Between 2003-2018, 158 infrastructure investments took place. Companies invested 50 billion dollars in government guaranteed tenders, making 72 billion dollars. That's how these companies make 147 percent profit by guaranteeing their own state. So this model, I'm going to put to you, is not going to be a do-and-do, it's going to be a do-do-do model, it's going to be a literary model. According to World Bank data, five of the 10 companies with the most public tenders in the world are in Turkey. The Justice and Development Party holds a record not only to distribute tenders, but also to change the Public Contraction Act. For 17 years, the Public Contraction Act has been changed about 190 times. Why does the average public tender law change once a month in a country, precious lawmakers? Is it possible that the law in that country was changed because the law was made, not a tender? It is no longer undeniable that public resources have been exposed to waste and ranta by the practice of public-private cooperation. The economic costs of the laws made according to the tender include heavy costs for Turkey. Our nation has been left unaware of the many costs it has paid in its own pocket, unable to access the investment and cost information of these treasure-free projects. As lawmakers who have taken the honor of representing the nation by the will of the nation, our primary task is to uncover all kinds of activities against the nation. The model of public-private cooperation has become a mechanism in Turkey where wealth and rant are transferred indirect ways to power-supporting capital. The daily transit guarantee of the Osmangazi Bridge is 40,000 vehicles and its operating time is 22 years. The number of vehicles passed from the Osmangazi Bridge, which was guaranteed 14 million crossings per year, reached only 9 million vehicles in 2018. I wish, and I hope, in the coming term, that this will reach the promised amount, but based on today's conditions, it means that $35 a day plus over 5 million vehicles with VAT transit fees must be paid for by the treasury, or by the nation's contractors. I've told you recently, and now I repeat: if I ask you, you'll say: "Not a penny has been left in the state's vault." I admit it, it's not a nickel from the state's vault, but the hands of these five contractors don't come out of the pockets of our beloved nation. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Given the twenty-two-year contract, the total damage to the state would be billions of dollars. It is also part of the duties of this Assembly to ask the people to account for their followers when they are under the burden of unemployment and poverty, when they are forced to be crushed every day under heavy tax burdens. According to data released by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, the situation is the same at Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, another construction-processing project, which the state guarantees for 49 million vehicles per year. Again, at Kütahya Zafer Airport, whose investment cost 50m euros, the contractor was guaranteed 1 million passengers per year. In 2018, the total passenger traffic at Zafer Airport was around 100,000. The state's total payment to the company in five years is worth 26m,691,000 euros, 160m Turkish liras, according to the minister's information, since the number of guaranteed passengers is not available. Victory Airport's contract commitment is up to March 21, 2044. Averaging 6m euros per year, the airport, which was launched in 2012, will burden the nation with 192m euros in 32 years. That's five Victory Airports. It also appears that corruption in state institutions, as well as public-private cooperation, has been part of a plundering scheme, where state debtors are being enriched by contractors using budgetary resources. The Justice and Development Party has created a group in our country that exploits people's resources as a result of Rantci and partisan policies. This new society is a group of supporters clustered around the palace and waiting at the palace gate. There is no poverty in the life of this nation that exploits national resources and prosperity, no gas, no electricity, no water bills, no rent problems, no kitchen or school expenses, no unemployment and no hopelessness at all, no mention of inflation and income. The division shares double-stitch salaries from state institutions, there's a contract, there's a runt, there's luxury and waste in the division's share. Almost 75 per cent of the 2020 budget comes from tax revenues. As tax pardons are granted to the partisans, our citizens are being oppressed under heavy taxes, as if they are being groaned. The order that plundered 82 million citizens around the palace will one day change. Let everyone know that this budget is a budget that burdens poor people with the waste and balance that the Justice and Development Party has distributed and failed economic policies. This budget is not the budget of the nation, but the budget of the country. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] When a citizen in any remote part of our Anatolian region is hungry for pillows; if a mother, a father, is ashamed of his child because he cannot provide for the simplest needs; if the citizens have moved out of poverty, poverty, hopelessness, and even to an insane environment that can end their children's lives, neither is the budget. In its 100th year, our Veteran Assembly has been removed from its meaning and is forced to take a detour to its destination. While our national resources are being handed over to subsidized traders with irregularities and corruption, our brothers in retirement are ignored; their rights are being seized and taken from them. AS A GOOD PARTI Group, we will continue our struggle to keep our promise to 82 million; we will continue to defend the interests of the Turkish nation in domestic policy and foreign policy, along with those who live in retirement, including 3,600 additional indicators. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, according to UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Turkey is the country with the largest asylum seekers in the world. The number of Syrian asylum seekers continues to increase rapidly in a way that changes Turkey's cultural and ethnic fabric. At the moment, one of the 15 people is Syrian. If Syrian refugees are not returned to their homes, in 2040 the Syrians will form 10 per cent of the population of Turkey. If the Syrian population reached 130,000 when the Turkish population was 90 thousand, you have to understand the danger I'm pointing out. In 2040, Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep and Hatay will cease to be Turkish cities, and Adana and Mersin will lose their Turkish identity by half. Such demographic degradation will also bring developments in Turkey that will interfere with the survival of the national state. With the number of Syrian asylum seekers in Jordan at 650,000, Iraq has 230,000 Syrian refugees in its country. The number of asylum seekers in Egypt, with a population of 97 million, is equivalent only to the number of Syrian asylum seekers in our province. Europe sees Turkey as a wall that prevents Syrian asylum seekers from coming to their homeland. The number of Syrians in Turkey is greater than the total number of Syrians in the European Union countries. Our country suffers the social and financial burdens of more refugees than the population of some European Union countries. According to the statement of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, $40 billion has been spent on Syrian asylum seekers so far. It is clear that we have failed to resist external pressures aimed at turning Turkey into an illegal immigration centre. Turkey has become the world's largest migration centre as a result of the wrong foreign policy of the Justice and Development Party. The presence of refugees funded by Turkish people's taxes in Turkey is no longer sustainable. Seven and a half million of our citizens in our country are unemployed. The youth unemployment rate in Turkey has exceeded 27 per cent. We have 1,600,000 young people looking for work. At the end of the day, how will we get through tomorrow? The number of executive files -- as I said -- is over 20 million. While the citizen is under heavy tax burden, this society has no more power to finance the wrong foreign policies of the Justice and Development Party. The Syrians also have a negative impact on the Turkish labour market. Over 1 million Syrians working in Turkey are underpaid to keep Turks unemployed. The Syrians don't pay taxes in businesses they opened up to over 15,000. While paying the Turkish tradesman, the Syrian tradesman does not pay taxes and sells contraband. The Turkish tradesman, unable to compete with the Syrian tradesman under these conditions, leaves his shop to the Syrians. The unemployed Turks in the region want jobs from the Syrians. This is the case in Gaziantep, Hatay, and Şanlıurfa. On the other hand, the burden of 620,000 Syrian children on our educational system is enormous. Our children are trying to get to a point by working for years in the educational system. Parents try to get their children to read because they have raised their teeth, while students in refugee status come to the same place without a test. As the Syrian students receive a scholarship of 1,200 lira, Mr. Erdoğan says, "Don't buy scholarships for Turkish students, don't be a freebie, take a loan and pay it back." " 380,000 Syrian children were born in my country, " says Interior Minister Sulejman Soylu. If only Congress would help us make citizens of the Republic of Turkey as soon as these children are born. I wish we could give them citizenship when they're born, and then when they get back home, they'll have a moon star in their pockets. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. Secretary, why would a citizen leave this country and leave it? Giving citizenship to the Syrians would be a betrayal of Turkey's future, not only to today but also to its future. If you can't ever pay for such treachery in front of history and the nation. We're warning you now, don't say we've been misled. Although Western forces advocate the integration policies of Syrian asylum seekers, there is no sociological integration between Syrian Arabs and Turkish society, it will not be possible, it will not be possible. It must be Turkey's duty to return a country to Syrian refugees. Applying the foreign policy that will provide these conditions is Turkey's national security issue. The Justice and Development Party radically abandoned the traditional active balance principle of Turkish foreign policy by pulling out its ambassador to Syria on March 26, 2012, by shutting down diplomatic relations with the Damascus administration. Our hometown was swept through sectarian groups into a vortex as if it had been part of the wars in the Middle East. Turkey is wanted to be isolated from its historical policies, as part of its new Ottoman policy in the Middle East, which the EC PARTY calls our foreign geography. Turkey's nation has lost positions in foreign policy to our country, not focused on its own interests. In foreign policy, we melted all our achievements in the history of the republic within ten years. Remember what happened in 1998. When a military commander went to Syria, he changed the balance of the world. At the point where we're here today with the Adana Covenant, we see that the recent branch of the AK PARTY's foreign policy stuck in the Middle East swamp is the Adana Covenant. The PKK's terrorist organization, which was destroyed in Syria in 1998, reached its end in Turkey in 1999, has finally achieved a strategic advantage in northern Syria -- due to 17 years of Justice and Development Party's ruling -- due to false policies. The achievements of the Adana Covenant were a result of Turkey's view of pure national interests and an active balance policy in the Middle East. Today's picture is the result of sectarian and unrealistic foreign policy. We will continue to contribute all we can to the return of Syrian refugees to their homeland and to the removal of this national security issue. Under no circumstances will we allow the evacuation of the north of Syria to be demographically assigned to the PKK to form a terrorist state, and their country to be taken away from the Syrians. We'll send the Syrians back home. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, the main problem that deepens these political, economic and social problems that surround Turkey inside and out is the Presidential government system. The state consists of three fundamental men: legislation, execution and judgment. Legislature is Parliament, it makes law; it is the government that executes laws; it is the institution that supervises whether the laws of law are in accordance with the Constitution. It is possible that a state can be democratic by having what we call a separation of powers, an interpersonal balance and control mechanism. However, with the presidential government system passed through the referendum on April 16, 2017, the state administration, executive, justice has been eliminated and replaced by Recep-Tajyip-Erdoğan. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] There's no justice in that country, there's no democracy in that country, when all the state's institutions belong to one person, because justice and democracy are never in harmony with one man's rule. Imagine a president having a party rally in the morning, appointing high-judgment members in the afternoon. Think of a president who, on the one hand, will appoint governor of the provinces as President, and on the other hand, will appoint the mayor of his party as the party's President. This leads Turkey towards a party state, and if you are not part of the ruling party in the party states, you are no longer at the gate of the state.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0119par0120	Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0118par0121	If a state cannot maintain justice among its citizens, it is in danger of losing its ability to become a state. In this political system, the President is no longer a representative of the Turkish nation, but a political party. There is no constitutional order in the world's legal literature called the government system of the presidency. This system, unfortunately, has set a barrier between the presidency and the nation. In addition to fueling the political and social dissolution of this system, the damage it has done to the economy is evident. In 2017, Turkey fell two places in the second year of the presidential government system and fell to the 19th place; it is inevitable that next year it will fall to the 20th place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0119par0124	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0118par0125	If the economic development between 2002-2007 continued, the Turkish economy would be much stronger today. That means that the parliamentary system can also provide economic development, which means the presidential government system feels that it is a system designed for the leadership, not for the nation. Never forget how much mistakes you've made cost Turkey. We warned you when you opened the institutions of the state to the city, allowing it to occupy these institutions. We also informed you that the nationalist and Ataturkist Turkish officers, Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer, were being framed. Despite all our warnings, we have experienced political, social and economic trauma to your mistakes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I beg for the same leniency, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0120par0129	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0118par0130	At least from now on, we would like you to heed our warnings about the end of the presidential government system, which is the constitutional framework of the one-man regime under state administration. By eliminating the Veteran Assembly, we are concerned that your desire to rule the country by ignoring it will lead our country into another disaster, and we declare that we will mobilise our political will to prevent it. Now, if Parliament does not have any political control authority over the executive body through constitutional instruments, the solution is to turn the balance and control mechanisms into enhanced parliamentary systems. Today, the House is being tried to convert law proposals from the palace bureaucracy into a government institution approved, but the solution is, as I said, to a improved parliamentary system. Today, if Turkey's Grand National Assembly does not even appear to have a operational control and control authority in its most basic duty in its tax spending, the solution is to convert it into a improved parliamentary democratic system. If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey approved the budget according to Article 87 of the Constitution, up to the presidential government system, the government would continue its mandate, and if it did not, the government would fall. Now, I ask you, at the end of today's budget talks, what will be the political outcome if the valued members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly do not accept this budget? Unfortunately, the mission to monitor the Turkish nation's budget has been taken away from the Parliament, and Parliament will not go beyond a formal inspection -- as we do here today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the budget of the previous year will be implemented by the measure of revaluement if it is not adopted by our president's budget parliament, then let Turkey consider what the Grand National Assembly is discussing. AS A GOOD PARTI, I pledge to the undistributable integrity of the Turkish state and to the principles of the establishment of the great state of the Republic of Turkey established by Ataturk, and to the world that we will do so without delay to establish the principle of law and state-run separation, and to the great Assembly, which has been restored, strengthened, strengthened, balanced, balance and control mechanisms in Turkey, and I salute you, sir, with my respect.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0121par0138	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0122par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0121par0140	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0122par0143	Mr. President, thank you. We have much to object to in Mr. Dervisoglu's speech. Of course they'll tell us what they think, and we'll tell them what we think. I'm going to stop by pointing a few objections. The first one is that when describing foreign policy, it's not public-oriented, it's self-involved. We do not accept this; Turkey's foreign policy is clear. There is a foreign policy from the Caucasus to the Balkans and the Middle East in the framework of sociocultural relations, from a traditional interest in both the rights and justice of the people there and from the dramatic events of human norms -- the voice of objections to them. It's based on human values. Second: The criticism of this single man has been expressed from a long time ago, and only Mr. Dervisoglu did not say so. Behind these criticisms is the role that Mr. President plays in politics as a charismatic figure. Friends who have voiced criticism like this are trying to collect a political outcome from here by taking the President into their focus; they run a propaganda like this because he's the President of all their goals, and we deny it. On the other hand, the budget issue... The Parliament would offer a government in the system, the Parliament would evaluate the budget, accept it or reject it. Today, in the presidential government system, the president offers the budget. Here in Congress, Congress accepts or rejects the budget. Mr. Dervisoglu knew, of course, what would happen if he was rejected, as he pointed out at the end of his speech. There is no crisis.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0149	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0122par0150	The definition of laws from the palace is certainly not true, we reject it. Here, essentially, there's a negative approach to what the House is doing, as well, to what we're all doing together. The views, evaluations, demands of law enforcement are taken, of course, because they're the ones who will follow the laws you've made in the end. If they're going to run things in this system in the same way tomorrow, they'll surely calculate what they think, what their proposals are, what they're concerned about. But the final adoption of laws, negotiations are being held in parliament, and while we are doing so, we are trying to negotiate with all political parties in accordance with the President's direction and approach. It doesn't mean we have to agree on everything, but we want to do it in a process that's clearly known to everyone what we agree on, what we don't agree on; that's the way we've always done it, and that's the way we're going to do it from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0152	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0124par0153	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0154	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0124par0155	I won't answer Mr. Hodja, as long as you've given me enough leniency.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0156	They've already turned on the microphone from here. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0124par0158	I've expressed my concern for the past since before I've even been on the political stage, the opinion and opinion of the President of the Justice and Development Party's Dear Group. We have a personal law with them. I think I've made my point perfectly clear. I say, as a result, if this Parliament does not approve of this budget, what will be the political outcome of this? So only our President will make an addition to the budget by taking advantage of the constitutional rights to him. This does not mean that the House will not only be stripped of its powers -- perhaps the new system that we're not used to -- it may also be because of it -- is not limited to the removal of its powers, but also to its reputation. Forgive my sentiment, sir, but he cannot give up his habit of telling the truth, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0159	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0125par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0161	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0125par0163	Mr. President, Mr. Naci Bostancı has made a statement in his assessment that we are all witnesses to the Parliament's work practice. If only that were the case, if Parliament could control its agenda, if only Parliament could make its own decisions at the point of the law's quality of law, the MPs would be able to act on the agendas that change every minute from the palace, and not a bill of law that ministers have heard from the mouths of ministers, which the ministers have been telling the good news of -- in its former name -- and sign under it, without committing a crime against the Constitution. But the other thing that we're going to object to Mr. Group President is that if the budget is not accepted, we're going to raise and walk. He says that... I think that the Constitutional amendment, which refers to the 16th April regime, has imposed on Turkey and on the march of democracy, and that's the biggest step back, because of your expertise, and in the past, both your academicism and your duties, you know very well and you can confirm, Mr. President, parliaments are born of the budget. On the principle of tax consent and on the balance of the state's right hand, which is how to collect taxes on this issue, the balance of the state's field hand, the production of social consent is the budget, and this parliament has given birth to parliamentary democracy. The proposal of the law was then established as a right, and the right to petition is an important universal constitutional achievement. Today, sir, even if Parliament rejects the budget, it will go on. Did you say...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0166	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0125par0167	Can Parliament refuse the budget? We can, we can. After that, we increase the rating rate, Mr. President continues to run, he continues to run the country. This is the denial of Parliament itself; this is the loss of a universal and long-term struggle; this is a historical retreat to Turkey. And unfortunately, governments can only take these kind of steps back, such as legislation, execution, jurisprudence, and the one-handling of the judiciary at very high prices, and if they can't get them back, they'll face disasters. A party that sat the process and the rhetoric on the back of the country, which would mean the dissolution of the broken forces and the denial of the Parliament itself, please, dear, if the budget doesn't go through, it'll go away. I wanted to draw attention to that matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0170	Mr. Special, you refer to me.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0125par0171	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0172	I need to say a few words.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0125par0173	The Civil Code 64 makes it possible for you to be bullied.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0174	Yeah, I just need to say a few words.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0126par0175	But the President can't participate in the taunts, Mr. President, as the 64th Amendment says.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0123par0176	Mr. Tanal, how is he?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0127par0177	Explanation, information...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0126par0178	The President can't participate in the debate, says the President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0128par0179	He can't participate in the debate, he has the right to defend himself when he's bullied.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0126par0180	So if the Speaker violates the Civil Code, what do we do?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0129par0181	Sir, there's a reference.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0130par0182	Mr. Tanal, I don't understand. So a reference was made to me, and if I don't make my point here, it means I agree with Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0126par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0130par0184	Then you won't be referring to me. If you don't want me to talk, if you don't want me to get in the middle of the argument, you're not going to refer to me, you're not going to film me, you're going to argue with me.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0126par0185	Mr. President, then you come in, you sit in these rows, you participate in these discussions.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0130par0186	Don't worry, I'm aware of my neutrality. I'm defending the current provision in the Constitution. Now, I, of course, have been in the Constitutional Commission before, outside my current capacity, and I've been in this study before. Of course, this is actually about budget rights -- Mr. Dervisoglu has also expressed, Mr. Tatekoglu has expressed -- is one of the reasons the parliaments have come forward, even if a situation prior to that is seen in England. But what we have put in this budget is an arrangement that will continue with a temporary budget unless the budget is adopted in Parliament, and it's not something that we invented. This has been discussed in the United States for a long time. While we were conducting these studies in 2012, there were some of our friends who were involved in those processes. That's when it was discussed, debated. It's not about the budget that the House needs to be prepared or the budget after its implementation that eliminates its control over the final account; I'd like to express it. I don't want to get any more involved in the discussion. Thank you. Dear friends, now I'm going to make a five-minute commitment to political party representatives represented by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey but without a group. First, the chairman of Turkey's Labour Party and Istanbul MP Mr. Erkan Baş. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0131par0200	Thank you, dear President. I salute the General Assembly and all its citizens, who are watching us on the screen, who live by the sweat of the country, by the labor of their lives. We've been talking for 12 days now. It seems to us that, in fact, you're talking about what you've memorized, and we're resisting in the name of the people, and we're insisting on telling the truth, but you're ignoring the truth because you're a part of it. We're on the side of 22.5 million SGK people, we're on the side of 12 million minimum wagers; we're on the side of millions of pensioners, the people you live with, and 20 million young people we owe to to build your future. In short, yes, we speak for 99 percent, and we reject this budget, and we don't agree with that budget, because what you're suggesting is that a worker with the money that the palace spends in a minute will survive for a month; we deny it. We reject this budget, which suggests people can't do their jobs because of your laws and have to sell bagels on the street, starve on the street... to face a new life-threatening suicide every day. At a time when 84,000 children are mothers, women's violence increases every day, women's killings are not prevented, we refuse to spend $1 million on the state budget for a meeting that only the President's wife and daughters will attend. In this country, while children are still trying to reach their schools with streams on their backs, while there is a secularism clause in the Constitution, we reject 11.5 billion budgets to the President of Religious Affairs, whose existence we should discuss. We are not willing to evaluate this war, destruction and the ranta budget without questioning a single pencil, as it comes from the presidency, and we ask: Is your conscience clear when the budget is debated? Aren't you afraid to spare a sip of our people when you give it to the allies in a country where one of the five children has to work? Are you really not afraid of this people's rebellion? Look, let me be very clear, even if your conscience doesn't hurt, this budget is going to be a real pain in your ass. Masters, you've pushed the public's buttons, this budget won't put you to sleep. My fellow lawmakers, those who have made the budget and those who have approved it have seen nothing but money and profit. Yesterday, my comrade in Peace told me very well from here, in a nutshell. Dignified, property-loving, money-grubbing, that's an obsession. But we have a love, a love for the land, for man, for nature, for justice, for freedom. Look, you'll see, there's not a single woman on the street who's going to be worried about our arrangement.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0132par0209	Dream free.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0131par0210	One young man won't care if I can think freely, research, read, hold hands with my girlfriend, or go online without money. The journalist, the intellectual, the academic will not be afraid to produce freely. We won't ban ideas, we'll ban unemployment, we'll ban exploitation, we'll ban poverty. Don't worry, we'll find the resources.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0133par0211	When?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0131par0212	We will sell like fathers. We will take back the values of the people you call them, our public assets, our businesses one by one. We'll return the billions you've lost in bridges, roads and hospitals to the public, guaranteed by the state. The palace on one side, the slum on the other; this order will not continue. There will be no show-off, no misery on one side. Everyone will receive equal, broke education and health care. All citizens of this country will receive their basic human rights equal to electricity, water, housing. Mehmet, who has money, who has no money, will not die while Bilal is serving at the expense. All these shames will go down with you, but we won't let them forget what you've been through. We're going to name the Sivas province building, we're going to name the Ministry of Health, we're going to name the Ministry of Health, we're going to name Turkan Saylan, we're going to build an Ape Musa cultural center instead of the Diyarbakır Police Station. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The name of Şişli Square will be (Hrant Dink), the name of the National Library will be (Uður Mumcu), and it will be the freedom square of May 1st (May 1st).
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0134par0215	Guys, don't interrupt the vet.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0131par0216	Dear friends, all right, I get it, you're wondering, what are you going to do with Sara? We'll build a palace with the people's money, a museum of shame so our people won't forget you, and we'll tell them what you've done in a thousand rooms.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0135par0218	I'll do it. You can't say, you can change names. That's the vision.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0131par0219	Well, dear friends, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0136par0221	Guys, please...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0131par0222	Mr. President, let's have a word with our friends.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0136par0224	Guys, please...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0131par0225	Now, dear friends, I have two thanks, one for Mr. Naci Bostancı. I watched Naci Bey's speech carefully. It's the budget of 1 percent. For his expression, they're slogans. Look, Mr. Naci, let me be clear: a slogan is not a bad thing, but a slogan is a way to express the goals of a long struggle as quickly as possible. Well, I wish I had an hour like you, but I wish I could tell you a little longer, and hopefully, together, our coven will give us that opportunity one day.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0137par0226	It's a dance, it's a dance! Dance with me!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0138par0227	You'll have 300 deputies after that.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0139par0228	Guys, please don't interrupt the vet.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0140par0229	Now, dear friends, our people will understand even if we speak briefly, but I will come to something important that Mr. Naci says: "It is difficult to balance between short resources and endless desires; Turkey's resources are scarce, people's desires are infinite." I answer, Mr. Naci Bey: Turkey has a resource issue. There's a source, but there's no limit to your palace and your bosses' desire, and it's not enough of our resources. Mr. Naci, what happens to the endless desire of the 2,000 lira minimum wage? These people just miss being human. In short, desires are not infinite, but human, resources are scarce, but they've been left in a row. But I must say that Mr. Naci is very consistent in one thing: I appreciate your defending the poor queen in order to defend the poor Erdogan. I just have to remind you that if those poor French people hadn't stood up to the poor queen, knocked down the monarchy, and established the republic, we wouldn't be able to speak on these platforms today, and we need to keep that in mind. [[Applause from HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. Dear friends, finally, I would like to thank the court and the AKP MPs who have been involved in this budget process. We were talking about how capitalism is a structure of human exploitation, and you showed it beautifully. With this budget, you have confessed that there are only and only two options left in public; the AKP will rule, the palace, war and exploitation order will continue, or the people will organize and put an end to the rule order. On this occasion, I would like to connect the Turkish Labour Party's final statement to the record of the 2020 budget with a historical anecdote. This budget says: either barbarism or socialism!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0141par0237	That's a catchphrase.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0142par0238	Thank you. Congressman Abdulkadir Karaduman on behalf of the Party of Saadet. Here you go, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0143par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. The budget for 2020 here is a budget that will directly affect the lives of 82 million of our citizens. But when we look at this budget proposal, we see that, given the issues expressed, Turkey is a bright country with a bright future, and its future will remain bright. However, this budget is now a sign of the end of the sand, not of the sea, but of power. Obviously, this budget we're talking about is a budget designed by people who move into the neighborhood of the equity owners so they don't have to sleep when their neighbor is hungry. With the understanding that prepares this budget, you can build golf courses with the capacity that prepares this budget, stadiums, nation gardens, and what you call a poor factory. Swimming pools, by God, will increase the number of customers. You can build a guaranteed city hospital, a guaranteed bridge and highways, a guaranteed passenger airport, but you can't open a single factory. Look, again, on the other hand, you sell sugar factories and import sugar from Russia. And thou shalt make a reckoning of bullets for a man, and thou shalt make the Tank Palet Factory in Sakaryah a quickie for foreign capital. You make this country dependent on Canada's lentils, Georgia's hay, Israel's seed. The total amount of privatisation from 1986 to 2004 was $8 billion, while the total amount of privatisations in the last 14 years amounted to over $60 billion. As a result of all of this, the day you came to power in 2002, one percent of the population had 38 percent of the total wealth, while at the moment we are here today, one percent of the population had 60 percent of the total wealth. So, this is called the colonial-type development model. If you read this book in my hand, I think you'll understand what we mean when we say "subverted development," which I think you'll understand a lot better. On the other hand, it's not the production economy, but the colony-type development that I'm referring to, the only assignment of those who embrace it, is to serve the interest lobby. It is known that in our faith, there is a practice of zakat. By transferring resources from the rich to the poor, interest deepens injustice in the distribution of revenues by allowing resources to default on the rich, rather than the fair share of income in society. Thus, interest is a means of exploitation that makes the rich richer and the poor poor even poorer. Look, right here, I'd like to share with you the amount of interest in the budget for years. Look, in 2006, $45 billion was earmarked from budget to interest, while in the 2020 budget, more than three times that, $138 billion, was earmarked for interest.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0144par0250	You're giving false information.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0145par0251	Where's the budget, the budget?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0146par0252	Guys, don't talk in the fund. There's a speaker, we're listening. There's no need.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0147par0254	The truth bothers me.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0148par0255	They're taking their time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0146par0256	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0149par0257	In 2006, when the budget was earmarked for $45 billion in interest...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0150par0259	They ate three minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0149par0260	...more than three times that in the 2020 budget...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0151par0261	Mr. Blackduman, just a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0152par0262	They ate three minutes, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0151par0263	Let's wait for the guys to finish their talk.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0152par0264	They ate three minutes of the hat, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0151par0265	I'll give you my word. Guys, are we done? If it's over, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0153par0267	You're a bunch of loan sharks." He says they're uncomfortable with him.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0151par0268	Please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0154par0269	I'll recap: In 2006, when the amount from budget to interest was 45 billion euros, more than 3 times that is wanted in the 2020 budget, 138 billion euros.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0155par0270	Well, then, the budget we brought in...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0154par0271	It is 138 billion TL. Look, more than twice as much of what you're spending on investment is to be transferred to interest-seeking, proportional understanding. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] With movement, look, just this $138 billion Health Ministry, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Department of Agriculture and Forestry and...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0156par0275	I'm congratulating you! The CHP applauded the Party of Saadet, God bless you!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0157par0276	We'll applaud, of course, our alliance partner.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0158par0277	Mr. Bak, please... Mr. Blackduman, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0159par0279	This $138 billion for interest is more than the total budget for the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0160par0280	Mr. President, it's against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0158par0281	Mr. Turan, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0159par0282	This painting is also the most obvious indicator of where resources are being transferred in this country. Now, you can say here that interest is a fact of the world. But we say that it is slavery, not a world of interest. So, as the Party of Saadet, we are not against interest, but against interest itself. On the other hand, we don't have a store in this budget that has to shut down, our farmer who can't produce...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0161par0286	Mr. President, give me ten more minutes!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0162par0287	Mr. Blackduman, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0163par0288	Mr. President, give them a little more time, they're applauding, they're very good; CHP applauding the Party of Saadet!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0162par0289	Here we started with Mr. Turan. These are his aftereffects. Here you go, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0164par0291	Mr. President, the lenders are making such a loud noise.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0165par0292	The interest lobby is screaming!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0166par0293	Also, the interest lesson begins with CHP.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0167par0294	Mr. President, if they're gonna shut up, I'll start.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0168par0295	Guys, if you'll excuse me for a moment...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0169par0296	The interest lobby is making such a loud noise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0168par0297	I'll give you until we're done talking. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0170par0299	You eat the citizen's money, and now you're wasting the time of the vet.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0171par0300	Yeah, CHP, take a lesson from him. Look, you're clapping, it's beautiful!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0168par0301	Osman Bey...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0172par0302	Our alliance partner, why bother?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0173par0303	Don't defend the interest lobby.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0174par0304	Listen, clap, clap again!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0175par0305	Osman Bey...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0176par0306	We don't have a business that has to close the budget; we don't have a farmer who can't produce crops, we don't have a student who doesn't have any money; we don't have an officer who can't afford the end of the month; we don't have an IIT (OHR) in the grave that you're looking for retirement; we don't have a million minimum wages that are doomed to hunger in this budget.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0175par0308	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0176par0309	This is not a budget for the problems of unemployed citizens who set themselves on fire in the Security Park. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Just yesterday, two young people in Çorum have committed suicide due to poverty and two others have committed suicide because of poverty in Ilçı district of Antalya the other day. Also, suicides in Antalya, Istanbul's Fatih district have been committed recently. While poverty has come to the general public, you insist very much on not saving on dignity.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0175par0313	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0176par0314	As a result, I'm showing you our nation's reaction to this budget.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0177par0317	Tell me about Erbakan Hodja.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0176par0318	This budget is not the public budget, but the budget of waste, interest and Rant. It is never possible for us to approve the budget in this way, to share in this sin. This card is the sound of the heart and conscience of millions of our people. Again, this card is to rid you of your sweat, labor, and tolerance.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0177par0319	Erbakan Hodja used to show you that red card.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0176par0320	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0177par0322	Bravo! If it was Erbakan Hodja, he'd show you the red card!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0178par0323	Thank you. Now, the Democratic Party's President and Afyonkarahisar MP Mr. Gültekin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0179par0327	Dear President, I stand before you to make an assessment of the 2018 final account and the 2020 budget. On this occasion, I salute you all. We're talking about the budget that our great National Assembly has to discuss, which is its truest duty. On the basis of the budget, there should be not only 2018, but a total, total, total, total, 17-year-old, accounting, top assessments of tomorrows, a meeting to settle with high-octane talks. But today, because of some systemic and structural barriers, dams and the infrastructure deficits of politics, as you can see from the situation here, the president's representation as the first-degree political institution remains unfortunately low-profile, in the process of completing the procedure. The assessments here today are the narrowing of polarization, the narrowing of democratic positions, the art of denying a thousand different kinds of truths, the art of defending one wrong in a thousand ways; the quality assessments, the negotiations, unfortunately, we can't do it with it. Budgets, budgetary parliamentary priorities, political priorities. We're here to discuss the 18th budget, with three five years of development. Budgets, plans, programmes, medium-term programmes, New Economic Programmes and the latest, through the 11th Development Plan. I'd just like to point out that between 2014-2018, most of the investments went to sectors outside industry and exports. During the 2019-2023 period, we will prioritize industry and technology. The statement was used, but it did not depend on all of this, and the government himself, with these programmes, budgets, and the transfer of budget resources, the MHP representative also said, underlineing that budget rights have been abused. Of course, political parties are tested by their claims, by their programs, starting with their names. I'd like to make and complete my evaluations on a first-degree lack of law enforcement with a very private party corporate personality. You know, with the combination of the Democratic Party, the Motherland Party and the Right Path Party, today he's meeting in the root cell to continue his life. As a political party, we have been facing at least six or seven years of political indelicateness, political immorality, and unlawfulness on top of it. Our headquarters next to the Foreign Ministry, which we use as headquarters, has illegally made statements to the public for many years about Ankara's mayor of Metropolitan City, who, after the Mongol invasion, has suddenly changed the nature of one person's game by changing the location of the party after Ankara's biggest looting attempt (app and VEHPI PARTI) by saving one person's savings, before the 2014 elections, Mr. Mansur, who is the mayor of Ankara Metropolitan Mayor today prior to the 2014 elections, suddenly played a game on the idea that he would run from our party. We went to court, and the administrative court ruled in our favor. We applied to the Metropolitan Assembly again, and he went behind the law and renegotiated a decision; he had declared administrative space ahead of which he had declared cultural, social administrative space, and opened the way for us to go back to court. We went to court again, and it was cancelled, and we applied to the Metropolitan Municipality at this time, and we demanded that this unlawfulness be lifted, and that the law be carried out, and that the matter was not the case of Melih Gökçek, but that we had been able to look for even Meleh Gökçek, a political mind that had invented systematic lawlessness.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0180par0333	Mr. Easy, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0179par0334	This time in Ankara's Metropolitan Council it has been declared an industrial storage area -- again, I want to underline, the industrial storage area -- that the majority is in the hands of the ruling party -- has invented a new lawlessness. Mr. President vetoed this issue, went back to the commission, and we saw from his Secretary General to his ministers that they persisted in this unlawful conduct, even though we told the EC PARTY's interests until they arrived at the presidency. Today is the 146th anniversary of Akif. I'd like to make it perfectly clear that as a political delegation, I think you should understand Aliya Izetbegovic and Akif. Because of your political conviction, the values you claim, the values you flag.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0180par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0179par0338	Izetbegovic says you lose when you look like an enemy. Yes, at the point of inventing lawlessness, unfortunately, I see you've been able to apply the ways of the people outside of you today to the people who left a bad legacy to Turkey. We're Muslims and Democrats, but when you look at it, what you're really doing is illegal, corruption. You have a Group Vice President at the Ankara Metropolitan Council, which will be integrated into the full project, and his name is Mümin. To be a believer is to be secure from your ability and your tongue. With all the values you've flagged, unfortunately, you've lost the rights case, you've lost the law case, and eventually you'll lose power.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0181par0341	I'll see you on the field.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0179par0342	Despite all these negativeities, I salute all of you with respect to the awareness that if Turkey meets with political intelligence on a decisive scale, in the next decade, we will meet with its democracy, its law, its economy, its education, if it can add a new depth and dimension to its education, it will meet with its own strength and move towards the goals we have established, and that the budget -- the awareness that we are against it -- that it does not express any meaning of voting against it -- we will vote against it.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0182par0344	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0183par0345	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0182par0346	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0183par0349	Thank you. As Mr. Uysal gave his speech, after the invasion of Mongols, he used some of the greatest disasters Ankara has suffered, looting and looting.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0184par0351	That's less than enough!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0183par0352	Mr. Gökçek has been mayor of Ankara for more than twenty years -- nearly 30 years. Not everyone has to like it, not necessarily, but the mayor was elected by Ankara's votes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0185par0354	Neither do you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0184par0355	Why did you relieve him?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0186par0356	If he was loved, why did you relieve him?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0187par0357	No immunity, he's a civilian now. It is not right to make such claims about a person -- whoever it may be -- not only about Mr. Gravity, but about him -- in such general terms.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0186par0358	Why did you relieve him?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0187par0359	If you've got a claim, if you've got a case for those harsh words, there's courts, there's prosecutors, there's no immunity. Do your friends have any applications?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0188par0360	They're changing the judge!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0187par0361	So, look, this attitude is not right; it's not right. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0189par0363	Did you give the reason for your dismissal, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0190par0364	Thank you. Dear friends, now it's time for Mr. Mustafa Destici, the chairman of the Great Unity Party and the Ankara MP. Mr. Destici has a say in his behalf. By combining these two conversations, I give Mr. Destici fifteen minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0191par0373	Dear President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and love. It's the last day of budget negotiations. First of all, I ask that the talks that will be completed today be a blessing for our country, for our nation, for our country, for our state. At the beginning of my words, I remember our martyrs once again with mercy, and I pray to our veterans for immediate healing, and I say that our security forces, our heroes, who are fighting terror in and out of the country and in the country, should be lord and helper. There's just been a debate between the Group Vice Presidents, and I'd like to start there. Along with the new system, some groups, particularly the Deputy Group Presidents, insist that parliament has lost its importance, that lawmakers have become ineffective. I'm going to talk about the contribution of the Deputy Director of the Group. There have been 12 hours each day, up to 12 hours -- at least 12 hours; 15 or 16 hours -- spoken here for 12 days. About four hundred and twenty minutes of these -- I mean, five groups of 1 government -- were spoken that way, but the talks lasted over seven hundred minutes. The remaining -- about -- some days two hundred minutes, some days three hundred minutes -- has been discussed by our Deputy Group Presidents, and is said to be a decision by the Council of Counsellors almost every day. The 60th article of the Parliamentary Charter makes it necessary to make promises to lawmakers who want to talk about the location. It's not run, it's not promised to lawmakers, but the Deputy Director of the Group gets up, talks as much as he wants, and our Parliament Speakers say, "Open up." It goes on and on. Now, if we want to see lawmakers here mostly and heavily, we're going to involve lawmakers, we're going to promise lawmakers, lawmakers are going to express their opinions and opinions. I can make it very clear that I'm not part of a group here. I know a lot of our friends feel that way, but unfortunately they can't say it. I'd like both our members of the Group, and our Acting Speakers, who run the House, to be more sensitive in this matter. Of course, once we get into system discussions from here, you guys have to see this: yes, systems are important, but more importantly, mentality, more importantly, human. Look, England is run by a parliamentary system, Ethiopia is run by a parliamentary system; can we say they're both democratic at the same level? Or the United States is run by the presidential system, and the Congo is run by the presidential system; can we say they're both democratic? We can't. We were run by the parliamentary system until 2017, and until 1950 it was the non-democratic parliamentary system. After 1950, we were led by a semi-democratic parliamentary system. What's important is the mentality, and to us, the greatest advantage of this new system, and the interest for the country is clearly separated from living and running. But unfortunately, our House is in its old habit, so it is eager that the House, instead of making laws, will perform the function of executives. We believe it's one of the greatest advantages of this system, and we're saying it once again. Don't they have flaws? Don't they have flaws? Of course you do. Some of them can be dealt with by the law of harmony, and some of them by new legislation or by new constitutional amendments, but we have an obligation to move forward. Of course, here, again, one of the most important issues of discussion in these budget talks is that unfortunately, I regret to say, due to what happened on the night of the July 15 coup, our groups falsely accuse each other -- in my opinion. On July 15th, the traitor stood heroically against the coup attempt and the forces behind it. At first, our president's determination, the glory of those who run the state, our institutions, but perhaps most importantly, all of our political parties have taken a clear and common stance. So I don't think it's right that the posture that was shown that day was a cause for a fight or a reason for separation today. I ask that the groups here not be unfair to each other and applaud each other. Because on the night of the coup, we all stood up to this blow. What did you want? I mean, it's a public encounter on the street, but none of our political parties have allowed it. For him, we appreciate it. I ask that our groups do not wrong each other in this matter. Of course, here, it hurts our hearts, violence against women, kidnapping and rape of young children. I curse them one more time. Of course, our Department of Justice has re-explained in recent days, but we are in favor of increasing criminal sanctions, especially for these two crimes: one, we wish that the death penalty be brought back to the terrorists, our soldiers, our civilians, who were wrongfully and unlawfully, willingly, intentionally, intentionally, or intentionally, kidnapped and raped our young children, and then killed them, and one, by firing the bomb himself, or by firing the bomb, and one for the terrorists who were martyring our police. It says here: there's no going back. But finally we've seen it in the Army, it's all out in the open, there's no turning back because I did it. He says if I do, he'll do it again. Of course, our budget has chronic problems, problems from yesterday and today. First of all, it's interest, we have to get rid of it. And in that sense, we're against getting rid of it. It doesn't mean we're against it. We need to support production, we need to support agriculture, we need to support the farmer, we need to support the industrialist. I'm also drawing in bold letters that support is inadequate and need to be increased. Of course, the other thing is, tax collections. More than 80 percent of our revenues are collected from taxes. I've said before that the OECD countries average 70 per cent of direct taxes, while we unfortunately only collect 33 per cent and 67 per cent from indirect taxes. What does that mean? That means that the rich and the poor pay the same taxes as the minimum wage and the tax record. This injustice must be eliminated, and the tax system must be placed in Turkey, which is less than more than more than the winner and less than the winner. Of course, employment, unemployment is one of our most important problems. Of course, we know that 0.5 of our growing economies will not cure unemployment because our population is increasing by over 1%. If your population is increasing by over 1%, if your growth is below that, you should know that unemployment will increase, but hopefully, in 2020, the goal is 5% growth, and when that is accomplished, of course, it will contribute to the point of reduction of unemployment. Of course, another chronicized problem here is about fair distribution of income. Our budget has increased by 22.5 per cent over the last year. So all segments would have to get the same share of this, but is this what it looks like? It's not like that; the minimum wage should be raised at least at this rate, and the minimum wage should be increased, as of this country, 6-7 million employees, but with its family, there's a population of over 20 million people. Of course, there are positive aspects to the budget; one of them is the reduction of current deficits. With the increase in exports and the decline in imports, especially with the increase in tourism revenues, the current account has been reduced considerably. But another way to reduce the current deficit is very clear: the last time we're talking to China -- the last time I'm saying 2018 -- is over $2,91 billion in exports, 20,71 billion in imports. So minus 17 billion is $800 million. When we draw this, half of our current deficit goes away. Why am I saying this? Because what do we get from China? We get toys, we get automatic IT machines, we get cell phones for cell and other wireless networks, mainly. We can get them somewhere else. As long as China does not allow them to persecute the Uygur Turks in East Turkistan, to kill dozens of them every day, to subject hundreds of them to severe torture, to remove hundreds of thousands of them from their homes, and most importantly, to live in their religion, their faith, their culture, their Islamism, and their Turks. I think he should know that if he wants to be friends with us, he'll have passed through East Turkistan. Dear friends, my dear nation, of course, one important positive development is that progress in our defence industry and external dependency are gradually reduced to 70 percent of domestic production. That's very flattering. Of course, one of the most relevant issues here is the Tank Palette Factory in Sakarya. I don't think it's right to call Qatar "the foreign capital" or "the contract" or "the contract" or "the one that's been made" or "the one who's been given it" or "the one who's been given it" or "the one who's been given it," but I don't think it's right to call Qatar "the foreign capital" or the other. We can make everything in common with Azerbaijan, we can make everything in common with Pakistan. Libya and I have signed an exclusive border security agreement, that's true. We all applauded, and this Congress applauded. But now we're trying to cooperate with Libyan security and military cooperation, some groups don't approve. Guys, we have to do this. We have to do this if we want to ensure our own safety. Look, every time we put strong men in the name of growth and development in the United States Senate, there were so-called Armenian genocides, economic sanctions, different sanctions in the European Union. So we need to see this, and in that sense, we have no choice but to be united and to act together because we, as Turkey, depend on energy outside. We import 90 percent of the oil we use, 99 percent of the gas. In recent days, I would like to express our appreciation for the Memorandum of Covenant with the Security and Military Business Union, which we have signed by Libyan National Covenant, which is recognised by the international community, and once again the Accord of the Restriction of Sea Authority Areas, and hopefully, we support the agreement of security and military cooperation with Libya, which will come in the coming days. Guys, look, we have to move forward in the defense industry, which is second-guessed, and what's important is that we have to produce it. Look, the late Ozal told a powerful group in Turkey to enter this area, FNSS. Today, 49 percent of them belong to BAE. Some of our TEI is British General Electric. So I personally don't think it's right to keep quiet about them and only be loaded through Qatar. I say this: Of course, our first priority is our own resources, but we have to look out for our friends, look out for them, cooperate with them, and Turkey must multiply its friends. Just as America goes to Russia and builds a base for other countries, so if there are joint projects out there, we have to provide them.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0192par0391	These are all countries of the English school, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0193par0392	Mr. Destici, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0191par0393	Of course, the other thing is, friends, social politics. We also want to say that we are very pleased with the increase in social policy. Of course, the Syrian issue, Operation Fountain of Peace, unfortunately... of course, when I start speaking, this HDP Group, the extensions of the PKK are coming out, and they're uncomfortable with what I'm going to say, and I'll tell them again. It is unacceptable to show our heroic army here as assassins. Once again, I speak to Parliament Speakers, Vice Presidents: When we speak hard against each other, the 67th Article of Parliamental Court shall be processed, but they say to the government, the military, the assassin, there is no action on their rights, there is no action on their rights, there is no internal law on the matter; there must be run by the Civil Charter. No one can make our government look like a murderer, as it has occurred to you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0193par0396	Let's complete it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0191par0397	Mr. President, let me finally say that there are trustees, who are trying to defend them with conscience, democracy, national will, and they say, "Why did the YSK then run them?" I'd be ashamed of a congressman saying that because if there's a penalty, the YSK won't run for it. But what does the 46th Amendment of the Law of municipalities and the Anti-Terror Law say? If you sense that he supports terrorism, you'll get it temporarily. If he is acquitted in the courts, if there is no punishment, he will return to his post. Thus, there is no defense for them. For him, the state, our Home Secretary and the Ministry are using and doing right by the law. We support them to the end because they are the extension of the PKK, which is clear and clear. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, I have more to say, but my time is not as long as a group, but we thank you for that, and we thank you for that.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0194par0401	We thank you for East Turkistan, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0191par0402	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, I'm just going to say hello.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0195par0404	Okay. Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0191par0405	I thank Mr. President, our Vice President, all of our institutions, our Parliament, our groups, everyone, if it contributes to this budget. I wish the budget to be better once again, and as the Great Unity Party, I hereby declare that we vote yes to the budget. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0195par0408	Thank you. Dear friends, I will now make a promise to Mr. Fuat Oktay, the Vice President who has requested a statement on behalf of the administration. Here you are, Mr. Oktay. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0413	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you on behalf of myself and our President. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have reached the end of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2018. Thank you for your hard work and your contribution in this long period of time. In the time assigned to me, I'm going to make our assessment of the budget, first of all, for the sake of the administration. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Turkey used to be a country that had to face all attacks, traps, scenarios, games within its borders, fight. Because of the vicious cycle of this equation, our country's long years have been wasted in struggles, sometimes even in brother fights. Those who are responsible for saving the country from this stalemate are sometimes helpless by drowning in their own internal problems, sometimes by tripping at their feet. Praise be to God, for the past 17 years, Turkey has had a strong, determined, conscious, zealous, and successful administration that has allowed it to leap into all areas. (AK PARTY) At this point, we are no longer running the fight within ourselves, but at a regional and global level. In recent years, there has been a lack of acceptance of the fact beyond the rise of attacks and waves of hostility against our country, but everyone will have to accept the truth of the great and powerful Turkey, whether they like it or not. (AS/TK) Every development from Syria to the Mediterranean and Libya, from the fight against terrorist organizations to the break of economic traps is a manifestation of Turkey's determination and determination to achieve its future goals. As things change in a country, when society changes, when the management system changes, when the security paradigm changes, when the diplomatic language changes, it can't be considered that the political institution, including running the economy's scales, is in place. It's hard to imagine that the relationship between the voice of the nation and the voice of the political institution, which we consider to be its representative, and the relationship between the law and the administration, has not changed within the framework of social dynamics. And our transition to the presidential government system is the epiphany of society, of our society's desire for change. The engine of this transformation and transformation is again the National Assembly of Turkey, which is the center of the national will, and our trust in our Parliament is infinite. Turkey will continue to crown its achievements with the speed and flexibility provided by the presidency's government system, which has claimed its influence and its flag and even exposed its coup attempts. Our President, a leader who has spent his life in democratic struggle, who has defended his life against military or civil guardianship attempts over and over and over again, to ensure that democracy works and his greatest guarantee of existence, is the last person to be compared to the one man. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I believe that 2020 will be a year of good progress for our country and our nation in all areas. On behalf of the Presidential Cabinet, I'd like to say again that we will be willing to carry out all our duties in this matter. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been identified by our government's reassuring policies, with good budget practices and financial discipline. In the 2020 budget preparation process, our budget is a basic priority for our economic and social development goals. In this framework, the budget of 2020 is a budget that will help the economy of Turkey continue its path with greater strength. The budget contains a vision that will lead to financial stability as Turkey's budget, one of the world's 20 largest economies. The 2020 budget will allow us to further reduce inflation and interest, allowing us to implement our promises to our citizens, transforming their resources not into interest, but into investment, production, and overall prosperity. Our budget is the budget of all of us, including the poor poor, the orphans, the children, the young, the women, the disabled, the citizens who look after and protect all parts of society, especially our citizens living abroad.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0197par0424	What country?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0425	At the same time, it has been prepared as Turkey's budget, which responds most strongly and eliminates all domestic and external threats with domestic and national defence systems. The budget of 2020 is also an indication of the change of the domestic and national economic movement in every area, and of our goal to rise above the level of complex civilizations. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the development of our economy, the growth of our private sector, the establishment of fair income distribution and social development are as directly related to public policy as our external factors and internal dynamics. Of course, budget policies come at the very beginning of public policy. The AK PARTI budgets are designed to ensure that tax revenues, which are the eye shine of our citizen's eyes and sweat, return to our citizens with the best services. In every period of our power, financial discipline has been spent on our nation's well-being, not on interest payments. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We don't really need to tell ourselves much. Our actions and the level Turkey has reached in all areas are clear and clear about our commitment to progress and development under the leadership of our President. I'm telling you about the services we've delivered to our nation from great cities to villages and fairs across our country. The progress we've made is seen in the eyes of our needy citizens, our disabled brothers and sisters, who have increased their support with benefits, our citizens who have reached quality health care, and our students who have more quality and reachable education. We will continue with the budget of 2020 to maintain our own agenda against those who want to stop our country's holy march. This march is to protect the sovereignty of our country, the rights and interests of our nation, all our friends and the law of our underdogs. As we left behind the obstacles that had been set in front of us on this journey, our response to such concepts, such as "throne" and "crisis," has changed. We've developed new approaches and strategies by removing obstacles from our experiences from the difficult times we've grown stronger. We have successfully overcome many issues that could have been a source of problems and could have caused major damage in previous times. With our achievements, there is no such thing as difficult and impossible. We have established your understanding in all areas. Our industry, exporters, scientists, teachers, and all parts of our society are always determined to go further because of the self-confidence we have gained under our president's leadership. Today, Turkey is in a position that is both political, economic and social and militaryly too strong to compare with the former. Now there is a Turkey that trusts itself, believes in its power, and breaks the trap. Our recent operations in Syria, counterterrorism operations, and strategic steps taken in the Mediterranean, in the Eastern Mediterranean, are the most concrete indicators of this stance. Today, we're going to continue to move forward as a united and united Turkey that has collected its economy and has broken the game on the southern borders. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When we set out, our goal was not only to make Turkey a big and prosperous country, but also to make economic growth more fair and balanced in all parts of our society. Our budget policies are also aimed at setting that balance. The Gini coefficient, which measures income distribution, also confirms that the Gini coefficient fell from 0.44 in 2002 to 0.408 in 2018. Between 2003 and 18, we raised our economy by 5.6 per cent year-on-year, despite the unprecedented global crisis. In 2020, with our five percent growth goal, we are again aiming to achieve more growth than 3.4 per cent of global growth prospects. We didn't just expand the economy, we increased the welfare of our citizens. According to the buying power parity, our income per person has increased from $10,685 to $28,044. If we look at the data from the European Statistical Institution EUROSTAT, the average buying power of our citizens in Turkey has reached 2/3 of the purchase power of an average citizen living in the European Union. I'd also like to present this as another indication that 17 years ago -- you're looking forward to -- the average European -- is now rapidly approaching European standards, which is at the level of one third. In 2020, our central management budget also has the resources and distribution of our citizens to protect their buying power. That's why we didn't get all the respected lawmakers to crush inflation. We don't use that phrase as a word of mouth. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Kesici, told a joke in his speech about a pilot who had no choice but to testify that the plane's four engines had gone. It was a joke that told the 1990s very well; he was right, and so it was. As he described in the joke, in the late 1990s, as a nation, we eventually brought total testimony, and then we stood up again with the powers of the AK PARTI. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a few quick reminders. In the last 16 years, I wasn't going to compare these sixteen years, and when you told me the joke, I wanted to enter -- with these breakthroughs that we've made -- we've upgraded our country to the upper middle income group in the lower middle income group, Mr. Kesici. In 2018, we increased our national income from $236 billion to $789 billion.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0198par0440	There were no people burning themselves in the 1990s, and now people are burning themselves with hunger. Suicide every day, suicide every day.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0441	We also remember how those crates were dumped. We've increased the pension, increased the amount of $3,581 to 2.7 times in 2002 per capita income to 9.693 dollars in 2018. According to the buying power parity -- I just expressed -- we raised our national income from $10,685 per person to $28,044.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0199par0444	What about inflation, inflation?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0445	According to the acquisition power parite, I've just expressed -- in 2002, we were 37 per cent of the average income of the EU, up to 65 per cent in 2018.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0200par0446	You're gonna owe me a lot of foreign debt...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0447	We have increased our exports by 4.7fold.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0201par0448	Mashallah, Mashallah
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0450	In 2002, we transferred our exports of $36.1 billion to about $168 billion in 2018. Before 2003, the last 16 years of inflation average was 68.8 percent; I'm talking about the last 16 years before 2003.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0202par0451	Outer debt will be here soon, stop.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0452	In 17 years since 2003, the annual inflation average was 9.7%. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) 68.8 per cent; 9.7 per cent in 17 years, and we're going to lower it. We'll meet again next year, and hopefully we'll be talking about one-digit inflation figures again.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0203par0453	You're absent next year, next year, Abbas.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0454	I'll be in touch.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0204par0455	Mr. President, we have zero income, 30 percent inflation.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0456	In 2002, the national income rate of the central management budget deficit, 11.5% in 2002, was reduced to 2 per cent in 2018, Mr Kesici; 11.5 per cent to 2 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0205par0457	You made me laugh.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0458	In 2002 43.4 per cent of central management spending - almost half - went to interest.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0206par0459	Tell me about unemployment, unemployment!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0460	As of 2019, this rate has been reduced to 10.4 per cent; 43.4 per cent to 10.4 per cent. In 2002 85.7 per cent of tax revenues went to interest spending, down to 15.4 per cent in 2019; we downloaded it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2002, the national income rate of the EU-defined public debt stock reached 72.1 per cent, dropped to 32.8 per cent in 2019, and we dropped it. We're among the best countries in Europe at this rate, I'm telling you, Europe.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0207par0463	Bravo, we're even the 1st.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0208par0465	Is this the joke part of your speech, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0466	Again, Mr. Kesci said that as the EC PARTY government, we were constantly talking about an 846 per cent nominal increase in the minimum officer's salary, but there was no real increase. So let me also talk about real increases: the lowest civil servant salary in 2002 was $392, and now it's $3,334, and the real increase is 74 percent. The net minimum wage was 184 lira...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0209par0467	How much is a glass of water, Mr. Vice President, how much is a glass of water?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0468	I just told you, according to the purchase party, that's what that means.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0210par0469	You were buying seven small pieces of gold, three today.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0470	The net minimum wage was 184 liras, now $2.021 lira; the real rate is 124%.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0211par0471	Mr. President, you've borrowed 90 per cent of the national income.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0212par0472	Friends, please, we've only promised Mr. Oktay. We've promised no one else.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0473	The disability monthly was $25, now $720; the real rate is 508 percent. Age was $25 a month, now $ 607; real growth rate is 408 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0213par0474	Unemployment?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0475	The lowest SEC pensioner's salary was 257 lira, today is $1.906, and the real rate is 52 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0213par0476	Unemployment?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0477	The lowest BUG-KUR agricultural pension was $66, today is $1,393; real growth rate is 317 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0214par0478	What's the dollar, dollar?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0479	The minimum BUG-KUR tradesman's salary was 157 lira, now $1,725; the real increase rate is 135 percent. Mr. Kesci, we work with very good friends. I understand your friends prefer to work with the IMF. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're happy to see that we've given our pensioners, our workers, our farmers, our tradesmen, our civil servants, a real increase in our entire community, and with this real income increase, all of our segments are leftover.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0215par0483	They're all miserable, all of them.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0216par0484	That's what it looks like from the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0485	Mr. President, good lawmakers, we don't do the increase in income just by borrowing. The main thing is that you're raising your income above your debts. Today, the state of the Republic of Turkey has only half as much debt as this, while the state of the Republic of Turkey is above the fersah fersah of the Maastricht Criters, 60 per cent of the national income, which is a public debt stockpile of many developed countries. Mr. President, we have come to power by making it clear that we will not consent to the interest payments of taxes paid by our citizens from their hard earned earnings. From the first year we were on the job, we quickly put economic balances on track, not to make money out of money, but to create budgets that precipitate the sweat. From this approach, we always mean that our taxes go not to interest, but to school, to teacher, to equal opportunity, to hospital, to medicine, to the doctor, to the road, to the bridge, to the engineer, to the seed, to the farmer. (AK PARTY) We increase human development by supporting economic and social infrastructure investments and transfer spending, which we direct from our budget resources, as well as disadvantaged parts. If Turkey is in the highest human-developed countries league today, if we've just moved on to this, we've done it by destroying absolute poverty, by minimizing relative poverty, and by improving income distribution, we've done it, we've done it. Thanks to the welfare umbrella we've created, we've cleared our country of starving, freezing to death.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0216par0487	People burning themselves in front of the council.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0488	No one debates these things anymore; they discuss more income, more prosperity. Praise be to the government, we're only getting criticism for more.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0217par0489	How much is the dollar now, dollars?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0218par0490	Tell me how you got money from the monopoly complexes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0491	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a globally prosperous society, thinking, working and producing societies. In this respect, we will continue our efforts to create a better environment for all the actors of our economy. In unity and unity, we're taking certain steps towards becoming a stronger country that has solved their economic problems, eliminated any threat. We're aiming for an economic structure where our businessmen and investors produce and pay in a more efficient environment, and invest in more investments, where consumers provide goods and services at more reasonable prices. As a result of the work we have done in this scope, Turkey has been ranked ranked in the World Bank Doing Business Index in 2005, ranked in the 93rd place from 155 countries in 2005, and in the last two years, it has moved up to the 33rd place in the 60th rankings between 190 countries. Similarly, in the United Nations E State Development Index, published every two years, our country was ranked 68 degrees in 2016, and raised 15 places in 2018 to 53. As a result of the reduction of the bureaucracy and our successful work under Digital Turkey, our country was ranked 40 digits in 2018, raising 40 digits in 2016, when it was presented to citizens from the digital environment in the Online Service Index, one of the lower indexes. That's not what we're saying, it's the international indicators. Each year, our citizens will continue to receive public services from their home and from their own workplace, more and more quality than the year before. We are continuing our work on a more institutional and more predictable economic structure, where the rights of contractors and property are further protected, the need for physical infrastructure is substantially met. We are determined to maintain and improve our democratic environment for a Turkey that can use this value to the benefit of our nation by producing more values and sharing prosperity. Our work under the key part of the judicial reform strategy also demonstrates our will in the field of better protection and development of rights and freedoms. Our work on the first and second package of judicial reforms will continue to increase. Changes that will lead to the end of investigations and cases in a reasonable time have been implemented, and policies that will facilitate and strengthen our citizens' access to justice will continue to be passed. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we serve our beloved nation with better quality by providing the presidential government system and the more efficient, decision-making and implementation mechanisms of our country's democratic institutions and institutions. The presidential government system, which operates under the rule of rule of law, has been eliminated by a much faster response to economic attacks. In 2002, we were in the 96th ranking of 175 countries, and we were still in the middle of human development, and we are now in the highest category of this coefficient that I've just expressed. I'd like to point out that the Human Development Index, not just according to the market of purchasing power, but actually according to the economy, is calculated per capita, per capita, average age of education and average life expectancy, so buying parity, education and health services are a holistic index. Turkey's progress in the United Nations Human Development Index, which spans 2018, also shows that the level of development and prosperity of our people is at the highest level, as well as the international indicators of our development. Mr. President, we are well aware of the value of lawmakers, and we are also aware that revenue growth is just a tool for human development; the ultimate goal is not the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal is to make citizens more peaceful within the community and more self-inflicted and to have improved living standards. But we're also exploring that our actions, which we've described in numbers, during our multi-party political history, are not fully understood by the parties that our nation has never once given the confidence to rule alone. But our actions stand before the sun's efforts to cover it with clay as if it were a fortress. We have increased the number of classrooms; we have reduced the number of students per class to 24 in elementary school; we have reduced the number of students in general education; we have reduced the number of students in vocational education to 19 (later than in vocational education); we are moving 1,350,000 students to school by carrying them. When we say that, we're not just talking about a few numbers that appeal to the ears.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0219par0499	Thirty-two in Eskişehir.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0500	With the progress we've made in the field of education, we've been able to walk for hours from the remotest villages of our country to work our way to the school and say we've removed the obstacles to our children's access to the school.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0219par0502	Fathers carry children on their backs there, crossing the water.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0503	That is the meaning behind the increase in our average education period, among the basic criteria in the Human Development Index. As we build schools, as we organise educational campaigns and give education support and advice to families, this time the quality of our education has been tried. We, on the other hand, have long before declared that access to education is no longer a problem and that we have prioritized quality. It has been seen that we have made progress in education as a country that has increased its score most with the latest PISA results.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0220par0504	What number are we in PISA? Yeah, we've been humiliated at PISA.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0505	Well, we said it wasn't enough. We have to go to higher ranks, and with a high share of our budget education, we're fulfilling that claim. And hopefully, in the coming years, our country will rise to higher levels of quality. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, for us, our people and their well-being are the main purpose of our development. Nor is it possible for people who have no strong human capital to live a prosperous life. With the social policies we apply, we desire to make our citizens, who are living in much better conditions than the past, more contributing to our nation's future. We've tripled the national income rate of welfare spending. In this case, in our budget for 2020, we have also earmarked about 70 billion dollars for welfare spending. We also work through social services centers for our children, young people, disabled citizens, martyrs, veterans, and elderly people in every part of our country. To strengthen the family and eliminate the weaknesses of the family, we fully support the community-private cooperation. If the woman is strong, the family and the community will be strong. With her understanding, we care deeply about improving the social status of our women, and we do what is necessary. As part of our fight against violence against the woman, the Coral Expedition was launched, and the Co-ordination Plan 2020-2021 was drafted. In 81 counties, 514,000 people have also benefited from the prevention and monitoring centers that we have launched in the ministry. We also view accessibility for disabled citizens as the most basic human right, providing equal opportunities for disabled individuals in education, health and employment. Except for our families, the veterans and the veterans, whom our martyrs leave in our care. In many areas, such as the expansion of employment rights, education support, interest-free mortgage support, free travel rights and STV exemption, we have social and economic support for our fellow martyrs and veterans and veterans. Today, we've made the appointment of 572 martyrs, veterans and veterans closer to us, good luck and good luck. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, our country is among the countries with the highest proportion of young populations to the country's population among the countries of the European Union. The assurance of our future is that studies to strengthen our young people socially, provide active participation in decision-making processes and support their personal development have gained momentum in our time. We're the ones who have been defending and giving 18-year-olds the right to choose and be elected. In our country, the year 2019 was declared the Year of Volunteering to promote and institutionalisation of volunteering, and all of our provinces were encouraged to volunteer social activities. Last year, 802,000 children and young people from different age groups were reached by the Sportive Talent Scan Program, which we conducted to explore young abilities. We're building the infrastructure to develop these abilities to the end. With youth and sports services, scholarships, loans, and housing opportunities for our young people, we will continue to be with our young people. The 2020 budget will also contribute to the reduction of young unemployment by including young people in vocational training programmes in line with the needs of the business world. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, important steps in health are also played in our success in human development. There is no question that we have increased the health care and access of 82 million of our citizens. Again, it can't be ignored that we're taking almost everyone under the umbrella of health safety, expanding social security. Health progress is not just numbers. In our country, the decline of mother and baby deaths during childbirth is an example of health improvements. In 2002, in Turkey, the mortality rate of mothers in birth dropped from 64 in 100,000 to 13.6 in 2018. At 39.5 per cent of health care, the rate rose to 70.4 per cent in 2018. No one doubts that our central management budget for 2020 will be in the service of our citizens this year as a basic guarantee of easy access to hospitals, doctors, treatments and medicines. Mr. President, the fight against tobacco, alcohol, drugs, and behavioral addictions is one of the most important areas of work that we've ever worked on with precision. We have implemented action plans and strategy documents to protect our public health and community peace from widespread addiction trends. As part of the fight against drugs, we have strengthened our technical equipment capacity and our staff numbers, strengthening our measures for both border and street security. In 2018, we had a 37.5 percent reduction in direct drug abuse losses. We will continue to increase access to treatment as part of the fight against substance abuse. In this struggle, I would like to say once again that we are far beyond the developed and developing countries. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we're focused on high-velocity production in Turkey to make industry still more competitive. Efficiency increases, efficient digitization and local development continue to be the main areas in which we prioritize industry. It is also important that the COBIs adapt their technological innovation rapidly, increase their competitiveness, and increase their contribution to the economy. We also care about the embodiment of outputs in RD and innovation projects, especially high-tech spaces and manufacturing, and the embodiment of outputs into commercial prototypes and products. Today, the sales revenue of 5,500 companies operating in technology development areas, where they have reached 85. The export revenue has reached $4.3 billion. In addition, to facilitate their meeting with the market, we also provide support for entrepreneurs and SMEs, and with the budget of 2020, we will provide even more. We've also come to an end in transitional efforts to the county-based regional incentive model that investors are demanding intensively, and hopefully soon we'll be able to share that with the public. I'd like to say once again that we're about to cross a critical threshold on the domestic automobile project, one of the important projects we run. We see the domestic car project as an opportunity to capture the technology of the future in the automotive industry, which is fundamentally converted by electric, autonomous and interconnected vehicle technologies. The domestic car prototype -- there was a question about that last time -- will be introduced to the public on December 27, 2019. If we say so, we will. A large ecosystem facing the production of electric automobiles will come to life along with this initiative. It will also create infrastructure for more advanced technologies such as ecosystems, flying cars, unmanned autonomic systems. Our country's space industry has also achieved the ability to run several major and important projects at the same time. We're going to launch the TurkishSAT 5A satellite in the third quarter of 2020, and hopefully, by the end of next year, we'll launch this satellite. In 2021, our IMECE satellite will be our first high-resolution national satellite. Another big project is the TurkishSAT 6A project. In 2022, TÜBITAK, ASELSAN, TAI and KOBI, Turkey's largest R&D project, the national communications satellite TÜRKSAT 6A, continues to work intensively in cooperation. In addition, we announce the national space program in 2020. In addition to satellite systems, we plan to develop launch systems for space access, so that we can provide technology transfers to air and spacecraft projects that will be produced by local means. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most concrete indicators of the success of our vision of human capital and technology-oriented development is that we quickly travel the distance in the field of defence industry. In a country, such as Turkey, where all kinds of guardianship forces have been activated during the cold war for many years, in a period of about 17 years, the number of defence industries has increased from 20 per cent to 70 per cent. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Our 66 defence industry project -- we've already expressed -- is about 700 today. So we're talking about a business that runs 700 different projects at the same time. We've shared our export numbers, we've shared our turnovers, and they're going to continue to increase in this sector. The steps leading to success in our national technology move are the result of a conscious effort, a national awareness, strategic thinking, patience, and a will that does not give a price for frustration. Those who threaten us with sanctions in the process starting with S-400 and F-35 should know that the threat to domestic design and production will further motivate us by looking at our national technology move in the defence industry. (AK PARTI) Turkey will not be far away, but in the near future will be one of the countries in which it has its own air defence systems, F-35-like and even superior technology, human and drones, drones, and drones leading from design to production. Under the leadership of our President, our confidence in national security has increased; trust in the friend, fear of the enemy. With the support of our nation, the determination of our government and the selfless efforts of our heroic security forces, we weaken and destroy terror. We're eliminating all threats that are being created beyond our country's borders. We continue to stand strong and prepared for every plan and operation against our national security. Our security forces, qualified human resources, high-tech rate and growing infrastructure are able to overcome terror and terrorist support forces. Our security forces have achieved great success by making the ultimate sacrifice to ensure full security in every inch of our country's land, but the treacherous traps and ambushes of terror have also been delivered, unfortunately, as well. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy once again for our martyrs, the heroes of the Turkish nation. I give thanks and thanks to our veterans, and to those who are alive, I wish them a healthy, long life. I wish patience to the families of our martyrs and veterans, and once again I thank you on behalf of our nation for their sacrifices. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we continue to invest in physical infrastructure, including transport, energy, environment, tourism and agriculture. In this case, we continue our divided road projects. In 2020, we'll be making a 405km road divided into 27,165km of divided roads and 1,400km of new bit-full hot coating. In addition to 653 kilometers of bridges and viaducts, we will be able to complete the construction of the 34km tunnel in addition to another 35km of bridges and a 500km tunnel length. Again, in the same way, we're going to continue our projects here, at all speeds, from the assumption that the North Marmara Highway is the remaining 137km and that our other highway projects are a guarantee of what we're going to do next, but what we're going to do so far is that we're going to continue our projects here, from the assumption that our nation knows, that we're going to do it. Likewise, it will have continued, not only in the land system, but in all projects in the air, sea and railway transport network, and even in domestic rail transports. Mr. President, given that 25 per cent of global electricity production is derived from renewable energy sources, our country is far above the world average by the rate of electricity production from 46 per cent of renewable sources that we have reached from 2017 to late October 2019. The TANAP project, which is very important in providing supply security in natural gas, has been prepared for the supply of natural gas for our country as well as for Europe. In addition, construction and production of the underground Turkish Media Project, which will provide natural gas to our country and Europe, has been completed and started testing. In 2023, the capacity will reach 10 billion cubic metres, with 3.4 billion cubic metres in their underground gas storage capacity. We've accelerated the construction of dams for energy, drinking water and irrigation, and we've reached a total volume of 166 billion cubic metres of storage. We have opened to water 6.6 million hectares of technical and economically irrigable 8.5 million hectares. As of the end of 2018, we have started to water 4.31 million hectares by the DSI, and again, we have provided our farmer with $32 billion in net income sales. In 2023, we aim to open all of our irrigable land to water 8.5 million hectares. Some things were also said about dams and watering; if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you some comparisons very quickly, not just about the last 16 years: between 1954 and 2002, a total of 276 dams were built, but in the last 17 years, 565 dams were built.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0221par0532	They're ponds, ponds, watering ponds.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0533	I'll give you the details: 276. The dam -- from 276 to 565. Tell him to compare it -- from 97 to 553. You said the pond -- and the Bent 228 to 374. So they can increase it separately. Thus, before our time, between the price of tenders before the EC PARTI period or the completed dam costs and the tenders made during this period during our time or the completed dam costs, it was saved by one-third to one-quarter. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been distributed to the family of 16,151 farmers in 15 counties, in 199 villages as part of the Agricultural Development and Appreciation Project. In our seven counties, 28 villages are still working on land distribution in some 254,000 acres. In 2023, we will complete our country's largest environmental movement, Project Zero Waste, which we have begun to leave a clean and sustainable world for future generations. With this, we'll have a $20 billion annual economic gain, a direct employment for 100,000 of our citizens. Again, with the Community House -- I won't go into the details, because time is running out -- we've shared 100,000 social housing projects -- in this framework -- with the public, and that's an important step. Our Public Housing Authority designes projects, squares, schools, mosques, parks, green areas, all other features in our traditional neighborhood culture. We are determined, regardless of income level, to create safe homes for all our citizens in every way, and neighborhood environments that are suitable for human honor. Mr. President, we are also aware of the importance of our tourism potential, our culture, our art values, and our cultural diplomacy. Beyond that, we will continue our efforts to best our potentials in areas such as sea, sand, sun, faith, health, gastronomy, congress, winter, sports and pedestrian tourism, and to spread our tourism activities throughout all our regions and into twelve months, as we have now. And here we're going to continue by increasing our record by increasing the number of tourists in tourism revenues and revenues. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we have increased exports 4.7 times by providing market and product diversity during our rule. We've made global breakthroughs in foreign trade, we've won new export markets, we've reflected technological transformation into export product composition. We've increased our country's share of global exports to 1.6 per cent, from 0.6 per cent to 0.9 per cent by 2018. In this context, we've moved the number of products that we exported over $1 billion from 9 products to 33 products. Again, we have increased the number of countries we exported from 8 to 17 over $1 billion.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0222par0540	What about sugar, 1,400 tons of sugar?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0541	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, despite the difficult conjonk and serious trials we face in terms of foreign policy, we are successfully protecting peace and national interests in our region. The vision of our entrepreneurial and human diplomacy approach is broad and maneuverable. Turkish foreign policy reflects our domestic, national elements, our entrepreneurial spirit, our human and conscientious culture. Today, in many parts of the world, we are the dominant countries in the field and at the table, which can influence dynamics in a positive way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We care about an international system that gives the right to the right, not the strong, under the leadership of our president. For this, the world is greater than five. In addition, we play a leading role in primary areas, such as intermediary and development assistance. With intensive shuttle diplomacy followed by our president, we continue to address global and regional issues at the highest level. Our entrepreneurial approach in foreign policy includes the ability to use our diplomacy and soft strength to open the way for peace, as well as to use our hard power when necessary, as in Operation Peace Fountain. He will find us in front of anyone who is hostile and destructive in all national matters. Our nation is our greatest source of power in this regard. By the way, I'd like to say that the United States Congress has given the best answer to its decisions against our country for the sake of Operation Fountain of Peace, by the way, by the way, by the joint statement of the four parties. (AK PARTY) At the General Assembly of our Veteran Assembly, four parties have failed to condemn and reject the decision of the United States Senate that has no historical or legal basis for the events of 1915, and unfortunately the HDP has failed to show that it is Turkey's party. Just looking back at the week we left, we can see how they are positioned in the face of Turkey's vital interests on important issues discussed in parliament. In addition, the Libyan Covenant, one of the most strategic steps our country has taken recently, described it as "unlawful" and opposed the national Ministry of Defence's budget by calling it "the war budget." However, it is not for everyone who considers himself a member of this country to be disturbed by the success of our country, but to be proud. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I would like to express in particular to those who defame Turkish history that Turkish history is not full of destroying different identities; it is full of wealth that combines ethnic, geographical, religious differences in a common pot, which sees richness. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) (HDP) has been unable to speak out for all PKK's actions, as well as for Kurdish enemies who have blocked all developments and solutions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Those who despise their own people and the interests of our nation don't understand how we challenge seven heifers; we're not just players, we're quarterbacks. I leave the account of those who defame our nation's history and unity to history and the conscience of our nation, as I have already stated. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers will continue to be the inspiration of our foreign policy, our national values, our people. We argue from the very beginning that energy resources in the eastern Mediterranean should be used as an opportunity for peace and stability in the region. We will not compromise our legitimate interests in the matter of hydrocarbon resources. At the moment, Barbaros Hayreddin Pasha and Oruç Reis continue to operate in the protection of our seismic research ships and Yavuz and Fatih drilling ships, our Navy's frigates, corvets, drones and SIHA. I'd like to say once again that the draft of sanctions approved by the European Union, as an excuse for our drilling in the Eastern Mediterranean, is not in our favor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another important achievement is the exclusive economic zone agreement that we signed with Libya in the eastern Mediterranean. This agreement linking the two shores with the bridge of friendship and our close cooperation with Libya will continue to contribute to the interests of both countries and to peace in the region. We will continue to implement our foreign policy, based on being strong in the field, table, and thought, with an approach focused on our national interests, the peace and stability of our region and the world and the welfare and the presence of our people. We will continue our concrete work on protecting the rights and interests of citizens and relatives abroad and improving the quality of services offered to them. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are aware that all of our achievements belong to our beloved nation and our country. The success stories of 82 million citizens have made our republic and democracy stronger. In the 100th year of our republic, we have the vision to move our country beyond the level of the confluences of the Ataturk. We reflect it on our services and on our policies. We will continue to implement policies in our budget for 2020, which will make our country more advanced and prosperous, which will quickly be able to capture the world that has changed by not being able to watch the transformation.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0223par0558	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0196par0559	In order for our future generations to achieve their vision of 2053 and 2071, we will continue to walk with determination and determination as we know right. Mr. President, when I end my remarks, I give my thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for his leadership and vision of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2018. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to thank our government, who has extended the freedom zones to our country without shelter, health from education, health from industry, and freedom from our country, and who has investigated security and justice for everyone, and who has supported our deputies under the roof of the Cumhur Alliance, and Mr. President Bahçli. (EC PARTI and UMP rows) For support and contributions to our central management budget in 2020, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, including the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission and members of the budget, our ministries, the presidents and employees of relevant institutions and institutions, I sincerely thank all those who have done their best, and congratulate you on your new year. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] With these thoughts, once again, I offer our 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, and 2018 Central Management Computation Act, wish our country and our nation well, my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0224par0566	Thank you. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0225par0568	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to use my right to answer from the stand because it's a direct taunt by naming our party.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0224par0570	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0225par0574	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'd like to make a few brief points, we've discussed a lot during this time, but don't think that today is the 13th day, they're tired, we'll tell you at the last minute and you won't answer.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0226par0575	We've told you before.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0227par0576	We've told you before.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0228par0577	Listen up, we've heard it!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0229par0578	Listen!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0230par0579	So we sit here for 13 more days, we sit here for 13 more days -- 7/24 -- we respond to all your attacks on us. Now, first of all, let's say, yes, you're power and you don't run; it's true, but you don't mean Turkey, you're just part of Turkey. So the Justice and Development Party is part of the ruling party, not the whole of Turkey. And you won't always be you, remember that. So you can criticize HDP's policies, you may not find HDP's policy right, you can describe it with a variety of concepts, but the HDP is not Turkey's party. HDP is a party operating under Turkey's Constitution, laws, election laws. Yes, it criticises the Constitution; yes, it criticizes these laws; yes, Turkey says that there is only one man's regime in Turkey, that it struggles democracy to change it, but that doesn't mean that we're doing it and we're not Turkey's party. Now, secondly, on the contrary, the HDP has shown the most stable and decisive stance on what you're talking about. So far, your wrong policies have led to the decision to condemn Turkey in the parliament of 40 different countries. It finally happened in the U.S. Parliament. But what's true is that this is what we said, what we did, what we said in the statement...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0231par0584	White man's men, wow!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0232par0585	Listen! Listen!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0233par0586	Mr. Oluç, it's only two minutes according to 69, but let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0234par0587	Thank you. What we've been saying from the very beginning is that this issue, which is a historical and social problem, is the discussion of the Armenian issue, the 1915, and what happened after that, in this Parliament, in Turkey's institutions, that it should be spoken of, that it should be removed from being a taboo. They take the liberty of making these decisions in the parliaments of foreign states, as they are not discussed or discussed here. So we've always said that. Our position on this issue is Turkey's attitude, a part of Turkey's attitude, remember that. Other issues -- we'll continue to discuss, we'll discuss tomorrow -- Libya, the next agenda, we'll discuss. What success are you talking about? Failure, lawlessness, and a few months later, it will be the same as Syria, where the power will be slammed against the wall. Let me rephrase that. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0235par0592	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0236par0593	Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0235par0596	Thank you, Mr. President. It's just a correction. The Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) was not the party of Turkey. I did not use a statement called "Turkish Party." I used the statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0237par0600	Dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0238par0601	Don't tease me again, don't tease me again. Besides, there's no way that walking can be picked on.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0239par0602	He comes, he comes, he's teased, he's appointed, he's coming, he's teasing, he's picking on the chosen one.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0237par0603	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0240par0605	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Saruhan Bey, other parliaments make these decisions because there are no talks in parliament regarding the alleged Armenian genocide. We don't accept that logic. In this regard: Parliaments are not really the place to discuss these issues.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0241par0607	Where?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0240par0608	The place to discuss these issues is the study area of historians. If politicians talk about this business, you'll appreciate the fact that the issue of the discussion being investigated with historical data remains a little vague as to how much historical truth is mediated. Therefore, the general position of the state of the Republic of Turkey and our Parliament is that these issues are the work of historians, not only of the Armenian genocide claims, but of other historical events -- occasionally, of course -- but of course, of course, of other historians. So we don't see the need for an argument here. The historians need to do their job, express their views on other historical issues. Here's the thing: there's the subject of opening some archives. Turkey has opened its archives; Armenia has archives, they haven't been opened, they need to be opened. What events have happened in history, and what headshots are there, open them to international investigators, so that people have an idea of what's going on, if you have some claims. But hide them, run a propaganda from the other side, and we deny it, it's not the right thing to do. There's propaganda from Armenia, especially the diaspora that feeds on it, which I refuse. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0242par0611	Thank you. We're taking turns. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0243par0615	Thank you. Now, sir, I'd like to say something about what Mr. Naci said: The attitude so far is that this matter is not considered in any way at all. True, the debate of historians and the study of historians are very important in this regard. It's very important that the archives be opened, evaluated. But there is a need for a study with historians in it, where the House will show that it is the subject. Until today, this House... not only do I mean this period, I mean the entire past period. So far, it's been decided in the parliament of 40 different states, and we know this Parliament's position every time. A condemning declaration is issued, and the job is closed. The next time a verdict is made, another reprimand will be issued, and it will be closed again. What should happen, yes, is a matter of our history, of our lands. We're going to discuss this through and through. We're the owners of this discussion. If the position had been taken, the decisions in parliament would not have been so comfortable.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0244par0617	You can't argue with what's not.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0243par0618	That's exactly what we want to point out, or the politicians won't decide, of course. But the historians and politicians will play a role in this decision, and I wanted to draw attention to that. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0245par0620	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0246par0622	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in fact, we think it's a very wrong, very freaky system, but we've always said that everyone who's not here has the obligation to obey this Constitution. But we've identified one thing in these budget talks, which is this: the executive body that has the least understanding of this system and the AK PARTY Group. You'll say, "Why?" Now, in the old system, there used to be a government coming out of Parliament, a government coming out of hot politics, and there was a government being formed there, and because the government naturally came out of Parliament, it had a right to do polymics, to fight members of the legislature, but now in this system, a person is elected by the vote of the people, to be president, and he is appointed by the technocrats. So I'll come to this: all the ministers who come here, except Mr. Erdogan, are coming to ask us for money from our Parliament. They need our Parliament's skin, their discretion. They brought a budget, I need this kind of money. They call it. If this Congress approves, this execution will spend and use this money. Those who come here to ask for money from us, from all of us, from any party, have no right to make polemics, to wrangle with the legislatures, to speak to them. My word is not limited to Mr. Fuat Oktay, on the contrary... but you should know that you are a member of the legislature. It's a shame! Don't be a servant, brother, be a legislator!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0247par0627	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0246par0628	In the past, let me not count their names now -- some ministers had these polemics, and the AK PARTY group was not welcome. So the execution comes, and I want to do this, and I'm going to do this for a year. And we say, "Here's right, here's wrong; here's a little, here's a lot. That's the way it should be done. It was Turkey's party, and it did not, especially not by targeting the legislature members of the executive body, especially some political parties. Every party is responsible for itself. I don't think any of us have the right to adjust on some issues, including nationalism, patriotism. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0247par0631	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0248par0634	Mr. President, thank you very much. First of all, the expression of the servant of the door was not appropriate, Mr. Engin, the expression of the servant of the door, which I say is not appropriate, and I don't think that's what Engin Bey meant, as far as his approach is concerned, his language, his attitude.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0249par0636	I mean, don't swear too much, that's what I said. I mean, be aware that you're a member of the law.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0248par0637	Now, we object to the dissertation from two angles. First of all, if this was all about technicality, we've been talking about the budget here for 12 days, and friends have technical conversations. All the conversations and evaluations that friends make are certainly political, and if we look at them, there's a lot of polemics, and everybody's doing polemics, and they're doing political evaluations. So while the ministers we're talking about are coming here to defend themselves, I'm not going to be able to participate in these political assessments, although you've done these things on my budget, I'm not going to be able to talk about them, I'm just going to tell you about the numbers. There's no way I'm going to be able to tell you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0250par0638	But he can't.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0248par0639	Because this dissertation is one time your friends are rebutting their evaluations. The second thing is, friends, there's no area outside politics, there's no area. Okay? Politics is everywhere, like the weather. There's no politics, there's no politics, there's no politics. It's all about politics and politics. Look, even the seating order in the House is political. It's one of the most fundamental rules of politics. Look, there are feminists among us, aren't there, those who speak feminism? Let's remember that certain motto of feminists: the special one is political. Even the special one is political. They say it's not just about the woman. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because there's absolutely no space outside politics, and whoever's saying what they're saying is definitely talking in politics. I'll talk, you don't talk. That won't happen.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0251par0644	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0252par0647	Thank you. Mr. Botanist twisted my words. On the contrary, I said it was political. Now Mr. Bostanci says it's not about technique, it's about politics. I said it, I said it. They're technocrats.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0253par0649	It's not.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0254par0650	Either you go into his personal life, then you expect him not to answer.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0252par0651	Technocratic.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0255par0652	It's not.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0256par0653	Guys, please...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0252par0654	Oh, for God's sake! Yesterday, the undersecretary is what the minister is today. I - I suppose Mr. Bostanci jumped - I said Mr. Erdogan has the authority to do polemics with us here. Mr. Erdogan has the authority to do polemics with us, the ministers don't and we don't, I repeat. (CHEERING) We've said a lot of things in the past. The General Assembly has been suspended for this. In the back, some of the executives of the AK PARTY did not find this dissertation very unfair, I emphasize.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0257par0655	Not at all.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0256par0656	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0258par0658	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to make a point very brief. Yes, of course, it's the right thing to do politics, and it's political, as the feminists say, but there's a problem: The Vice President who came here to represent the executive legislature's third-largest party and the votes he received -- along with his family -- that he could not show that there were more than 20 million people -- he was the party of Turkey and he was an enemy of the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0259par0660	That's right, it's America's party.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0258par0661	...the position he's in is not appropriate. I mean, I didn't even answer the second one because, if you'll notice, there's not much to deal with. We argue with you, we can accuse the Justice and Development Party of various things, we can blame them, we can criticize them, you can answer them, but it's not appropriate for a person who comes from the top of the administration, especially the appointed person to consider the third party of the Assembly in this way. We didn't go into the other subject out of courtesy, but don't think we've forgotten him, we'll continue to argue with you, not them. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0260par0665	Dear friends, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0261par0666	We remind you of the Civil Code 64, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0262par0667	64, sir, Civil Code 64...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0260par0668	Okay, I'm talking to 64. Dear friends, you'll remember, on October 30th, two decisions were made by the Turkish Grand National Assembly over a resolution made by the United States House of Representatives, and then on December 13th, following the recent resolution by the United States Senate. Some of our friends expressed it from the platform, some of our friends expressed it from their seats, and described it as the declaration of the four parties. Legally, it was not the declaration of the four parties, but the decision that the party groups agreed to release a statement, published, but that the decision on October 30th of the House of Representatives' decision should be rejected and considered a mistrial, as well as the ruling of the Senate on December 13th that it should be rejected and destroyed, is a Parliamentary decision on the basis of its legal nature. So it has a different legal quality than previous texts, which is the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by voting on the presidential thesis. I'd like to express that. This should be described as a Parliamentary decision, not as a declaration of groups. That's the legal quality, that's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0263par0673	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0260par0674	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0263par0675	I'm sorry, I've made 64 reminders that you would be involved in this discussion.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0260par0676	I spoke 64 on purpose.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0263par0677	No, no. So you brought up another subject.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0260par0678	But you don't know what I intend to do.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0263par0680	Not to read, yes, not to read. Don't read our intentions.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0260par0681	You shouldn't have read it, it's been fixed by experience. Thank you. Now, dear friends, second speaker on behalf of himself, Deputy Chief of the Group, Mr. Engin Ozkoc of Sakarya. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0264par0691	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. My dear friends, Turkey, along with the parliamentary system and the republic, is based on the separation of forces. This structure continued until July 9, 2018. At the same time, the presidential government system has struck the republical regime established by Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. In the parliamentary regime, people were accountable, and in this system, the palace is accounted for.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0265par0693	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0266par0694	People pick again, who chooses?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0264par0695	The Prime Minister and ministers elected by the nation in the parliamentary regime were responsible for the parliament of the nation, and in the court regime, the president and his appointed bureaucrats.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0267par0696	He's in charge again.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0266par0697	Who chooses the president?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0264par0698	The budget in the parliamentary regime was subject to the control of the Court, which was created by people's taxes, and is now under the control of the court. The Minister of Finance, elected by the Parliamentary regime, offers the budget, with bureaucrats appointed by only one in the court regime. The separation of forces in the palace regime has been destroyed. The fourth force, the press, has largely left public broadcasting, becoming the palace press. So, what happened in the one-man regime? Here, Mr. Fuat Oktay, in his speech just now -- I watched with great surprise -- as Mr. Ilhan Kesici replied to Mr. Ilhan Kesici, we represent the power that raises the money of this poor and the oppressed to $2,000.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0268par0700	Right.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0264par0701	This money is only for tea and bagel money for a family of four at the bagel palace you're trying to save, which is $2,400. (HPP applause) That's exactly what you're bragging about, where you've brought Turkey. People's wallets are empty. There was a fire in the kitchen. Unemployment has reached a record. Turkey's debt burden has become heavy. The citizen's tax has been transferred to the interest lobby. Turkish lira melted. The justice system is down. Turkey went back 25 places in the Corruption Perception Index. There is no peace, no prosperity in the country. Women's murders, drugs, child molestation. The palace has forgotten the nation, and is now trying to save the palace of Simit, because it has a name. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's an unjust, unjust, unlawful system created by the Tank Palet, its final and great ring. Those who don't put us on TV are putting on a show for Ethhem Sandzak, who is in this circle of betrayal. The other day, I'm looking at him on TV, he's ranting, I'm on the air, he's on the phone, he's out of balance, and he's got the nerve to tell me where he got it, so let's discuss it on TV together. Later, the moderator called me, and I accepted this offer immediately. Yesterday, I received a call from the moderator, Ethem Sandzak, who said, "I will not be able to come because the AKP's representative did not attend this program." (H.P.) Anyway, we're not dealing with Ethhem Sandzak, we're dealing with the political foot of the event; we're looking for the structure where the Qatar army is the senior partner. The AKP leader, who has instructed Ethem to withdraw, must present himself with Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu on the channel whenever he wants. (HPP) We're ready to face them on any platform our AKP contacts want, we call them the challenge! (CHP turns) We have one last and only word about the tank pallet: Tank Palet is a country, it cannot be sold. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, to your three sins in the budget, Mr. Fuat Oktay has just told you exactly seven times what he did to martyrs and veterans, seven times. If our moon-star flag is flying in this land, if the coups, traitors, invaders have not achieved their goals, if the minarets are still being read, we owe it to our martyrs and veterans who have given their lives for this country. (HPP applauses) No matter what our views, no matter what ethnic identity we have, no matter what our way of life, our love is for our country, our love for Turkey, it's called patriotism. (CHP) It is our patriotism that holds us together against the imperialists, against the internal and external enemies. Now, your first sin: How do you keep the money collected for the families of our martyrs who died in the July 15th coup in one treasure account for three and a half years? Sir, what is it, you're building a foundation? Why haven't you built it for three and a half years? Is there someone holding your hand? Sir, the money is 330 million in three and a half years; if a citizen had invested that money, it would have been 500 million. You sold the forests, you looted the ports, you supplied the illegal structures, you sold the factories, you paid $500,000 for the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey, and now it's time for the martyr's money! (AK PARTY) Boo! Boo!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0269par0708	Boo!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0264par0709	Sin number two: There was a terrorist attack on Beşiktaş on December 10, 2016, 39 police and eight civilians were killed, and they were terrorized. You didn't give them the $55 million that was collected for their families, you've kept it in one treasure account for three years. Is the money there? No, you're using it. If a citizen had invested that money, he would have made 75 million liras. Three years passed, and the father of the family who died there put his house on the market because of poverty. [[The voices of the AK PARTY are lies!]] Is there anything in this country that you haven't touched or soiled? No. Now it's time for the martyrs of terror. Don't you feel bad, don't you have a conscience, don't you fear the right of the subject, don't you ever fear the loss of the blood of our martyrs? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Sin three, you've cut off the pension to our veterans. How many are there? 377 people. It's over, it's the veterans' turn. You couldn't afford 377 veterans in this budget, so you find millions of dollars to save the Simit Palace, shame on you! [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're at a point where you're so loyal, so unconscionable. The road's over, you're at the end of the line.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0270par0717	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0264par0718	We will, of course, say no to this sin budget, not to the people, but to the palace; to the martyr's money, and to the veteran's money. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The CHP will have secular, democratic, parliamentary system, rule of law. No child will go to bed hungry in CHP power. The social state will be built. No one will be treated differently from their lifestyle, origin, belief.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0271par0721	Hut, hut!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0272par0722	He didn't forget February 28th, people.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0264par0723	Turkey will be the breeder, Turkey will be the sharer, and finally, we will crown the republic with democracy, and I will pay my respects to you all by giving thanks to the real Commander-in-Chief Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who entrusted us with the secular, democratic republic of the oppressed and the victim with his comrades.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0271par0725	What you say will never happen, God willing.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0273par0726	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0274par0729	Mr. President, thank you. After the voice of Mr. Ozkoch, my voice may sound a little lower.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0275par0731	Let Akbasoglu speak!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0274par0733	When Mr. Ozkoc spoke, I thought that a speech like this would be more appropriate, I assure you, in the squares, for Mr. Ozkoc to have a conversation with a megaphone. (EC PARTY) Because really everyone here talks about the language of the negotiations from time to time, and I think the language of the negotiations... is not such a language. That's my opinion, and you may disagree, but I'm just saying. Perhaps Mr. Engin and Mr. Ozkoch will think at night. To what extent did I tell the other side my thoughts? Now, once, both in this conversation and in the same kind of talks, there was talk about poverty, poverty, $2,000, what it would be enough for. The minimum wage was around 160 dollars in 2003. The AK PARTY worked, tried, tried, and after 17 years, raised it to over $350. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, for 17 years, this budget has been discussed, and I haven't come across an assessment of CHP's respected speakers that will move the approach of $160 over $350 to the AK PARTY one more click, and put another $5 on it; that's my opinion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, about Tank Palet, friends are in propaganda. Of course, they can go and do it on various channels, they can tell, but we don't have to do this in order to make an instrument of their propaganda based on our tradition of being a man, a man, anonymity.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0276par0739	Mr. Botanci, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0277par0740	Are you the attorney of Ethem Sandzak, Naci Abi?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0274par0741	We're nobody's lawyers, of course.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0277par0742	Yeah, let's have Ethem Sandzak on the canals tomorrow.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0274par0743	I mean, you don't need a language like that. Of course, it's debatable, it's debatable, if he agrees to the interview, but on top of that, you obviously want to do propaganda on two issues. You don't have to expect other people to make a sound at your approach; go ahead, tell them. If our people buy it, they'll judge it accordingly. As for martyrs and veterans, it's probably everybody's business; it's not just CHP's, it's not just the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0278par0745	Where's the money, the money of the martyrs?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0274par0746	Everyone's sensitive about it. The AK PARTY group pursues every penny of martyrs and veterans, and the government demonstrates the necessary sensitivity. Let's be more careful when we talk about these things. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0279par0749	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0280par0750	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0279par0752	Sir, thank you very much. I understand the power has nothing to say about the money seized by martyrs and veterans. In fact, they really need to bow their heads on this. Take the rights of our martyrs and veterans -- once again as the Republican People's Party -- out of your safe, give them to those oppressed, give them to those victims. Do it quickly, do it quickly. You can't get rid of it, we'll follow it. Do not be the attorney of Ethem Sandzak. The Qatars who seek oil against the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean, against Turkey, along with American imperialism, do not belong to you. They'll defend Ethem Sandzak, so don't do that. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- not looking at what you're living on -- you were getting 150 dollars 17 years ago, and now you're getting two thousand dollars; don't say it's a big success. You'll drown in shame, and this nation will teach you the lesson you deserve. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0281par0758	Mr. President, for the record. The AK PARTY Group doesn't represent anyone. That's not what you're referring to, that's what we're arguing about. It's what you're using that's wrong. So please don't make us look like his, his, his lawyer.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0282par0759	Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0283par0760	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0284par0761	The congressman's last word.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0285par0762	Mr. President, at least the congressman has the last word.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0283par0763	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0286par0764	The Civil Charter... the Civil Code...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0287par0765	The Civil Charter can be spoken according to 62.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0288par0766	Mr. President, you represent the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you represent us, at least the last word belongs to an MP.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0287par0767	There's a chance to make a commitment according to the Civil Code 62, please...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0289par0768	No, that's not the way it is.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0287par0769	I'm not inventing a new invention.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0290par0770	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, the last word is the MP's.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0291par0771	The Civil Charter... the Civil Code...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0287par0772	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0292par0774	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I have an explanation for three things. First of all, it's about fellow martyrs and veterans. We're with our martyrs and veterans with many social and economic benefits, such as employment and interest-free mortgages and free travel benefits, and so do our veterans.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0293par0778	Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0294par0779	Give them their money, their money, the money you confiscated from the martyrs!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0292par0780	We've already stated this about the July 15th donations and the foundation of the foundation, and we've given you these wise people before.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0294par0782	Give me the money you confiscated from the martyrs! Don't be a porter!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0295par0783	Shut up!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0296par0784	Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0297par0785	We said the money collected on this was in the treasure's account for every penny.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0298par0786	Put it in the martyrs' account, not the treasure!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0296par0787	Friends, no one can speak without a promise. Guys...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0299par0789	Our martyrs and our fallen relatives and our veterans know that we're not going to let anyone touch a penny of this, that they have every last cent of it. (KARK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP rows) So this money is currently being paid by the Bank of Agriculture...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0300par0790	Is that money collected to keep it in the safe?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0299par0791	The V.A. Foundation is founded, so it will also be spent on our fellow martyrs and veterans within the framework of this foundation's decision. Our fellow martyrs and veterans are sure of it, please make sure of it.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0301par0793	They're not sure.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0299par0794	Second, there is no such thing as saving the bagel palace. The Agriculture Initiative has no such decision.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0302par0795	Money, money, money...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0299par0796	The third issue, if you'll excuse me, is about myself and the vice president and ministers. That's exactly what I've said before, and I repeat now: we'll come here about the new presidential government system, and we're here to answer to the nation, and we're here to answer to you, to the House. We're gonna get all kinds of criticism here, but we're not gonna get any answers. Is that even possible? (CHP rows) Now, the Vice President and ministers' political activities are not banned in the Constitution.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0303par0797	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0299par0798	Therefore, the vice president, vice president, or ministers, could be any political party member, founder, manager. So he makes a political statement and uses his political will. If the vice presidents and ministers were just technocrats, they wouldn't swear in the House, and in the Constitution, you would not be granted immunity to the elected ones and there would be no regulation for their trial on the Supreme Court. I'd like to rephrase.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0304par0799	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0299par0800	Like any political figure, I say it is absurd to claim that we have no right to political criticism in a place where we are criticized. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0305par0803	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0306par0804	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0305par0805	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0306par0807	Mr. President, first of all, we didn't bring this system.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0307par0809	People brought it, people!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0306par0810	If you are the victim of this system, you, not us, go tell your president who brought this system, go tell him.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0308par0812	People brought it, people!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0306par0813	Second: The money collected on the 15th of July will be submitted to the governorship and distributed to the martyr families. Don't keep it in the One Treasure Account for three and a half years, when it should be distributed in 15 days, deposit it in the martyr's account, give it to the martyr. You can't hide here that the eunuchs have reached the point of selling their relatives' homes.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0308par0814	You're the caretaker!
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0306par0815	Since you think so much of this country, you think so much of this nation, then I'll give it to the people near the martyr. Give the money to the martyr.
tbmm-2019-12-20sit04spe0309par0817	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. Members of parliament, the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Offer and the 2018-Year Central Management Accounting Law Proposal have been completed. Now, we're going to vote for 2020 Central Management Budget Law and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal. Proposals are subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote of bids should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, we begin the open vote of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal: ▪ Number of votes used: 488 [[x]] So, 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal accepted, good luck. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Now, we begin the open vote of the 2018-Year Central Management Computation Act Proposal. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote on the 2018-Year Center Management Final Accounts Act Proposal: ▪ Number of votes used: 481 [[x]] Thus, the 2018 Central Management Computation Act has been accepted, and best of luck. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Dear friends, after 197 hours and 23 minutes at the Plan and Budget Commission, 156 hours and 10 minutes at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, we accepted the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Offer and 2018 Central Management Computational Law Proposal. I'd like to thank both the Commission and everyone who contributed to the General Assembly talks and worked on the work. I want to thank our MPs, our Parliament Speakers, our Clerk Members, our Group Vice Presidents, our stenographers, our stenographers, all our friends who work in Congress. I pray that the budget of 2020 is good for our nation and for our state. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The issues on our agenda are thus completed. Under the decision taken, it is 12 p.m. on Saturday (December 21st 2019) to discuss audit issues and legal proposals and other general tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
