tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu, who asked for the appointment of Brother Azerbaijan's 28th Independence Day. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I begin by saying hello. October 18th, the brother country was the 28th day of independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan; blessed be the entire Turkish world. Azerbaijan, as it is known, is the geographical name of the region. The majority of the people who live there are like us, the Oguz-sized Turk. For him, the late President of Azerbaijan, Haydar Aliyev. We are one nation, two states. The word means a lot and is the most beautiful expression of brotherhood. Besides precious oil and natural gas deposits, Azerbaijan, a notorious country of Caucasians and Caspian region, with its superior achievements in all branches of natural and cultural wealth and art, paid heavy prices for the political and administrative formation of its region. I hereby commemorate Mehmet Emin Eposzade, who founded the first democratic public republic of the song in 1918 and declared its independence. I remember Lord Nuri Pasha, the commander of the Kakus armies who saved Baku (Baku), Madi Halit Pasha, and our 1,130 martyrs who lay in Baku (Baku) with mercy and gratitude. Azerbaijan, who was occupied during the establishment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, has remained Turkish for 70 years despite the oppression and persecution of communism, and has maintained the spirit of independence. With this spirit of independence, the Russian-Armenian, which began in 1988, stood up in the face of a working union, gave martyrs, was exposed to genocide, loss and mass exiles, but won the war of independence on 18 October 1991, and declared its independence for the second time in the same century. I remember with mercy and gratitude all our relatives who lost their lives during the second struggle for independence. I consider it a duty to mention the names of three people in particular. First, the symbol of independence is the Ebulfez Elçibey, who wrote and signed the honor book of his visit to Ataturk, which was to be addressed to your soldier in November 1992. The second is Alparslan Turkesh, who has worked hard for any financial and spiritual support for Turkey's fighting zone. The third is Dr. Turan Yazgan, the last white bearded professor of the Turkish world. I give thanks and thanks to all three of them, and I wish them mercy. The more important it is to win independence, the more important it is to make it work. From this point of view, I also remember Haydar Aliyev, who did so with gratitude, gratitude, and mercy. Dear MPs, Azerbaijan's future is bright in every way, and there is no doubt that the occupied lands will be saved, and Azerbaijan will be a land of free and happy people. In such a country, the rule of law and democracy will settle, and the people of the rich state will prosper. From here, I would like to address the rulers of Azerbaijan, a brother country: It is necessary to try to understand the people who are struggling for a living. Let me put it in a local way: think of the Azerbaijan people. On Saturday (October 19th), I would like to say that I did not approve of the treatment of the People's Front President Ali Kerimli, who was detained, handcuffed, beaten, and had eight stitches in the hospital as he was leaving his home to attend the rally that was intended to be held in Baku.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0003par0020	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0002par0021	Dear MPs reiterate my belief that Azerbaijan will become the rising star of the region and the Turkish world, celebrating the 28th Independence Day with the warmest of feelings, giving greetings and greetings to brother Azerbaijan's people and the entire Turkish world.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0003par0023	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek, who asked for a statement about Samsun's problems. Here you are, Mr. Kemal.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I am the MP of the city of Samsun, from the city of which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the statesman of the 20th century, was born like the sun. If we continue in this land today, our present struggle, our present existence, our life, it is because of the arrival of Vezi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to Samsun that day. Our dear friends, in the history of the republic, have been invested in many-directed investments in Samsun. The dams, the ponds, the factories, we think they're all the work of the republican era. These hydraulic dams, such as Altınkaya, Hasan Uğurlu Dam, Suat Uğurlu Dam, Lighting Dam, Derbent Dam, were built in the history of the republic. In the history of the Republic, there was a TECEL factory, there was a nitrogen factory, there was a copper factory, there was a port, there was an airport, but they were all sold and destroyed by today's political power; instead, there were no assets. So when these were sold, we wanted an investment in Samsun, but not even a human being could be employed by today's government. Our dear friends, as this is not enough, there are geographically fertile areas in Turkey, in the plains of Wednesday, in the plains of Bafra, in the plains of Turkey, and in these plains, in recent days -- Samsun in Wednesday -- allowed today's political power to be built as a biomass power plant. However, by the local ruling of today's political power, the AK PARTI (AK PARTY) in the city's capital city city and the National Movement Party voted that the power plant would be re-established there, an investment would be made to make this pollution, and we don't find it right. Today on Wednesday, the public community is there to fight against this power plant. After Umraniye, Tekkeköy is the highest place for air pollution in Turkey. However, you have no right to take away Wednesday, Bafra, Terme, Tekkeköy, Samsun, and the rights of the people who live in that area. It's supposed to be burned with 260,000 tons of biomass, energy generated, 630 tons of products per day, which means burning the biomass. When this is burned, I, the Samsunites, and our valued lawmakers here, appreciate what solid waste or air pollution will do to that area. Our dear friends were given 30 sheep and 2 rams for our farmers with their young farmers' projects, as they were in Samsun, all across Turkey. While each of these were being signed for 1,000 TL, our young farmers there expressed to us that these animals were not even worth $300 or $400, and as if it weren't enough, the plague was out of control, and it didn't suit our state... We also reject this current project, which the government grants as a grant and profits from and finances. Where did you bring this plague from, did you give birth on the land of Turkey, or did you import it from another place? I don't think it's right, my dear friends, to give such encouragement to the allies to benefit. On the other hand, across Samsun, farmers have a major problem. Agricultural Credit Co-operatives use loans from agricultural banks. As much interest as the Agriculture Bank has taken, and at that interest rate, our farmers receive income under the name of the commission and the service cost of the agriculture Loan Co-operatives. We want this to end, too. On the other hand, no price of goods was paid on the basis price in Samsun and Turkey, despite the explanation of all base prices in nuts, tripods and barley, wheat, sunflowers, and sunflowers.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0005par0035	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0004par0036	We hope this will be done better in the agricultural products next year. I don't think it's right, my dear friends, to throw our farmer into the lap of another monopoly to take advantage of him. Friends, on the other hand, our Samsun is now in the 3rd degree development area of Turkey. Samsun isn't where he deserves to be. The basin of Samsun is worse than the districts of the east. That's why we demand that these areas be taken into the 4th, 5th-degree development area, and that they be supported by at least 5th-degree development. In the past fifteen years, Samsun was the trading centre of the Black Sea, which lost its ability to become a centre. From here, I complain to our people who have done this, who have persecuted Samsun, and what I want done. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0006par0040	The third non-responsive statement belongs to Turkish Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Association Group Çorum MP Erol Kavuncu, who asked for a comment on his visit to Montenegro. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0007par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to inform our Parliament on the occasion of our visit to Montenegro as the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey-Montenegro Friendship Group. I salute our coven and our beloved nation. In addition to the programme prepared by our Montenegrin Embassy, the Friendship Group visited the Montenegrin Parliament Speaker, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, Vice President of Parliament and Chairman of the International Relations and Diaspora Commission, as part of a visit to Podgorica, Montenegro's capital city, and also the representative of the TİKA, the representative of the Yunus Emre Institute, the mayor of the Montenegrin Islamic Union and the mayor of Ulcinj. Our talks in the friendly, brother and allied country of Montenegro were held in a very friendly and friendly atmosphere. The official, private parties that we meet in Montenegro have also expressed that they consider our country one of the most important friends, allies in the region, that they are pleased with the Turkish businessmen' interest in Montenegro -- which is the fifth place in the world that invests in Montenegro -- will provide all the ease in investing to our businessmen. On the other hand, all the sections that we've discussed have expressed gratitude for the fact that TİKA has conquered the hearts of Montenegrins with its services. Also, Montenegrin officials said they witnessed the ugly face of war in the Balkans in the 90s and that during the war they had refugees in different ethnic and religious groups as many as a third of the country's population, and therefore appreciated Turkey's righteous fight against terrorism and its sacrifice on refugees. Dear MPs, I would like to hereby share my thoughts on this bench, on the nation's bench, on our campaign for the Fountain of Peace, and on the latest developments with our Parliament and our beloved nation. Our noble fight against terror for our future and our future is sustained, uninterrupted and uninterrupted within and outside our borders. The main element of this struggle is to drain terror at its source. Blackmails and threats will never deter Turkey from its rightful cause. With the help of God, with the help of our beloved nation, and with the help of many games in the region, I hope that victory will be achieved on the field and on the table. Turkey is the watchtower of the Middle East. In the Middle East, all roads lead to Turkey. Turkey is not just any country. This country is no longer an anvil, it's a hammer. Turkey is the name of the country that sets up games, spoils games, and nullifies games. Turkey's noble and upright stance under the leadership of our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has been registered by the entire world in its determination to fight terrorism and its courage to protect its national interests. From here, we address all groups of terror groups, such as PKK/PYD-human enemies from the public's podium: This road you're on has no end, it's dark, this street is a dead end. For neither your father nor your father will ever be able to remove the people of the land, people, religion, the state, from the values of our Kurdish brothers and sisters. Dear lawmakers, when I visited Diyarbakir many years ago, I read about it in the Diyarbakir Grand Mosque. Do you know when it was possible for Diyarbakir to meet Islam, the region, and the people of the region to meet Islam? 638 a.m. So only six years after our Prophet's death, the age of Hz Omar. For 1,381 years, the people of the region have been Muslims. People of the region, our Kurdish brothers are almost the same age as Islam, the birth of Islam. Such an honor is not for everyone. Because on earth, Mecca is in Diyarbakır, where most of the sahabe graves after Medina -- 541 -- are in Diyarbakır, 7 Prophet's tomb is in Diyarbakir. So who are the PKK, YPG, NYD, terrorist organizations? For many years, they were against Marxist, Leninist, anti-religious, God, enemy of the prophet ideology, American imperialism, exploitation, America.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0008par0054	Here, wrap it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0007par0055	Then what happened? Then they left, the puppets of America, the tongs, the mercenaries, the marauders. What did he do? So he used you, crumpled you up and threw you in the garbage can. That's what happened. Because that's the end of all pawns. Finally, it is the moral responsibility of every citizen of Turkey to support Operation Peace Fountain, which our state has started with just and legitimate grounds, with a political superior approach and an understanding of national struggle. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the blessing of Operation Fountain of Peace, our martyrs and civilian martyrs, God's mercy, his kinsmen, and our nation's nation, our Parliament and our mighty nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0009par0060	Congressmans, I will now promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system for a minute to take their place, and then I will meet the voice demands of the members of the group. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0010par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. The forest community with 1,800 martyrs and 3,000 veterans is abandoned to its fate. Our security guards are the lowest salary from the state and receive $2.162. There's no chance they'll get a collective bonus when they retire, no family benefits, no martyrs, no state awards. The money for the road and the mission must be increased, and when they go to the operation, they must be provided to feed on the boiler. The rights of martyrs and veterans must also be granted to the rangers. The free education of children of war and disability must be granted a scholarship to children of higher education. Our rangers' urgent request is that they be granted a status similar to that of waiting. I'm saying this has to be resolved immediately. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0011par0067	Mr. Axeman...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0012par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. The largest coastal district of Kastamonû, İnebolu, pays heavy price for AKP's insistence on privatising strategic investments and institutions, just like the Orb, which is being pursued by the SECA. He was transferred to Genghis Construction about two years ago by lying. Genghis Construction, which has banned the port from the Inepolians as soon as it has taken over the port, has now been run by the municipality, while it is now collecting fish removal and shelter fees, which are not taken from fishing boats. This practice, which has caused the number of boats to drop into the harbor, which has caused the boats to anchor in the open, unfortunately has a negative effect on our tradesmen, which is slowly paralyzing the county economy. Once again, privatisation means loot, privatisation means poverty. Once again, we remind and warn that the Inebolu Harbor is the beginning of the Inepoliites, the Inepoli Port, the Inepoli Road, which brings the bread out of the sea.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0011par0071	Mr. Ilyas Sugar...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0013par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 9th, our president's aim was to destroy the terror corridor that was being created at our southern border and bring peace and peace to the region. The operation against PKK, YPG and DEAS terror organizations continued successfully until October 17th. When it comes to the country, don't touch the stone, God bless you. I congratulate the Republican People's Party, the People's Party and the GOOD PARTI, whose group is at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whose only voice is to announce its support in prayer. Thank you, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who has allowed us to succeed in the fight against terrorism, both in the land and at the table. I congratulate the Turkish Armed Forces on their success in Operation Peace Fountain, and send greetings from this Veteran Assembly. Hail, O Mehmet!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0014par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. As you may recall, the last August 30th Victory Day coincided on Friday, and the absence of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's name was met by reaction from the mosque community and most of our community during Friday's Friday (August 30th). The name of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who was the founder of the institution on the website of 574 social media networking and on the website of the Ministry of Religious Affairs since 2017, has not been mentioned at all. I'd like to ask the President of Religious Affairs: Why isn't the name Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has allowed the Islamic religion to take place in this land? Also, will the name of Ataturk be mentioned in the Fridays of which these days coincidentally coincidental, as well as the Day of the Republic of October 29th and the Days of Ataturk? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0015par0082	Mr. Flitz...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0016par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to lack of agricultural support in our country, agricultural engineers' Chamber data shows that at least 6-7 million tonnes of wheat and barley are imported annually, and the price is $7.9 billion. To increase our yield average in wheat and barley alone from 280 kilograms to 350 kilograms in the deficit is an increase in our country's production of 8.4 million tonnes; the price of this increase is $9.5 billion. With the certified seed, fertilizer, cheap diesel and cheap electricity support for our farmer, nearly 25 per cent increase in production, the money that goes to Hansa, John. The only way out of our country's agriculture is to support the Turkish farmer, to conduct an agricultural policy based on production efficiency, I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0017par0087	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0018par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture: in about two months we'll be in 2020, but I still say 2018, which our farmers deserve -- 2018 -- the calf support and certified seed support have not been paid. As for the allies, you find money, you reduce mortgage interest, and you don't even pay the farmer's support when you know how much he owes. How can you not be serious? After that, Turkey's agriculture collapses. When we say that, you criticize us very harshly. You say that. Have you ever looked at animals, planted seeds in the field? Why don't you pay for the support the farmer deserves? As for the farmer, you run out of money? Of course, your idea is to make money for the importer. All you know is to reset customs duties, but now you're going to zero out.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0017par0091	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0019par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is writing a military and political history under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In five days, our country has reached an agreement with two of the world's greatest forces, and our rights have once again been riveted in front of the international community. Under the agreements with the United States and Russia, there was no need for a new action to be carried out at this stage except in our current field of action, which was completely blocked and blocked by the terror state that terrorists wanted to establish. As the world's agenda is shaped by Turkey's moves, our heroic nation has once again demonstrated its strength. From October 9th, when Operation Fountain of Peace began, 130 of our women, 2,330 of our citizens applied for voluntary service; this is a very important message to the world. Turkey will never allow a corridor of terror south of its borders, and our fight against terrorism will continue with determination. I salute the General Assembly in the hope that the point at which the Covenant has finally arrived will be good for all the oppressed who connect our nation and hope to Turkey.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0017par0095	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0020par0097	I speak to the Ministry of Agriculture, and the head of the administration: the year is over, the agricultural support is silent, the farmer harvests, sells, sows his new product. The 2020 budget has arrived at the Veteran Assembly, but there's still no word of support for 2019. Or were the funds in the 2019 budget forgotten? Wake up, because of the farmer's debt, he's going to go to jail, he's taking his life, he's running out of production, but we still haven't paid the agricultural benefits that the farmer deserves, and we still haven't determined the amount of production support in 2019. The year is nearing 2020, but the amount of production support for the products the farmer sold has yet to be determined. We expect immediate disclosure of support and payment of dues. Just as we have paid off Ali Aghaoglu, let us pay off the farmers' debts and their dues.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0017par0098	Mr. Kadıgil Milky.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0021par0100	I'm going to talk about one of the perfect examples of the lucky minority created by the AKP, who identified him as a thousand ferli, a multitalent. You know, the IBB, which is actually a cultural heritage, is somehow eliminated from Haydarpaşa and Sirkeci Station's tender, which has only fueled some of them's appetites. Our young Hussain Avni Leader's company gets the contract by eliminating the IBB, because he is not one of the 3.5 million young people in the reality of Turkey as we know it. The Leader becomes the General Manager of the Archers Foundation, where Bilal Erdoğan was a member of the Governing Body when he was just three years ago, and then he establishes a company with $10,000 in capital, and joins a company called Hezarfen, who is 2 years old, and bids 3 times the price of the IBB. More than that, he raises his company's capital to 100 lira in ten days. Let us cut off this admirable story and its dreams, and let us finish with the message of the useless, untalented 16 million: Haydarpaşa belongs to the people, and the court cannot be pursued.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0022par0104	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0023par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. In public institutions, the disabled staff is less than 3%, let alone 3 per cent of the legal obligation. In society, the disabled rate is 6%. I'd like to share with you a message from me here: Mr. Deputy, we're tired of waiting a long time, don't let go. Hear the screams of our friends, who are advancing because of being exposed, neglected, become a drop of water to this fire. We have no other conscience, no other door to trust. You're our only hope, you understand? Only 1,200 disabled teachers couldn't fit into the schools? We've been turned away from every door we've been through. Why should our friends who have been treated for cancer be in need of someone else, or why should they fight to appoint you instead of taking care of your treatment? The disabled Teacher Atama Platform Representative of September Sun. There's no budget cuts in disability appointments, and there's a need for a teacher, so let's do this right now, and I'd like to close this wound once and for all. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0024par0113	Mr. Yilmakaya...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0025par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Young unemployment has taken over, and our hearts are bleeding. In July 2019, the number of unemployed people in 15 and higher years across Turkey reached 4 million 566,000 people in the same period last year. The unemployment rate was usually 13.9%. The unemployment rate in the young population is 27 per cent, indicating that one of the three young ones is unemployed. In particular, in Gaziantep province, jobs have been reduced, unemployment has increased, and our hearts bleed when we see the young unemployed who come to us. As a government, you do not have a step towards fixing this bad economy, unemployment; there has been an increase from 2018 to 2018 in electricity and gas followed by an increase of over 80 per cent. A citizen who pays $100 in bills for living conditions now pays $182. Because of unemployment, citizens can't bring bread to their homes, they can't live, and you're going to increase taxes and raise taxes on the budget deficits, condemning the citizen to more hunger and poverty. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0026par0119	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0027par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, during the day, we were at Kahramanmarash, with our Minister of Environment and Urbanism and the president of TOKI. We've conducted meetings, reviews and events with the participation of all concerned parties in our districts, districts, and neighborhoods, and the work that needs to be done in place of some areas of trouble, and the work that needs to be seen and done. I wish the activities would lead to further development of our province. Also, these days, our heromarash is 6. It is home to the Book and Culture Fair. The fair continues with 250 publishing houses, as many writers and many book lovers as well as the intense interest and interest of our countrymen. As before, I pray that our heromarash, known as the capital of poetry, culture, and literature, contributes to the life of culture and wisdom. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0028par0126	Mr. Karahocagil...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0029par0128	Hail the man who strives to stop the persecution, the tears, the flowing Muslim blood in Syria! Peace be upon the braves who enter Syria to defend their homeland with their lives, by calling it tooth for tooth, blood for blood, and to end the dream of the ironists' supply. Well done. The rest of the country in question is for the honorable members of our Veteran Assembly! Hail to those who stand firm against the tank! Hail mothers, who gave birth to these brave men, and whose hand was kissed! Shame on the traitor, the bloodless! Hail to the four precious parties of the Veteran Assembly! Hail to those who lead the spirit of Çanakkale! Hail all mighty men who defy death! Hail to the warriors who strike against the blow! Woe to the scoundrels who seek our freedom! Peace be upon those who set forth, saying, "My shroud is on my back." Hail to those who cover their bodies with bullets! Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0030par0142	Mr. Aycan, please.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0031par0144	Mr. President, I'd like to point out the electronic cigarette trap. It produces electronic cigarettes, nicotine and aromatic vapors. What's addictive and harmful is nicotine. There are 250 different brands of electronic cigarettes and they sell online. Imports and use of electronic cigarettes must be banned. In other words, obesity has become the most important health issue in our country. Our children also have increased obesity. We need to protect our children from unhealthy, high-calorie, sugary, fat food. Family and school are very important. The implementation of school food, which is planned to be started for this purpose in schools, has been postponed, and the application must be initiated immediately. Health should not be sacrificed to trade. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0032par0148	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0033par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Last Saturday was the 16th anniversary of the death of one of the most important figures in recent history, the wise leader, the first President of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the great struggle and idea man Aliya Izetbegovic. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy to the late Aliya, who had a separate place in the hearts of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, through his leadership and service to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Aliya Izetbegovic, one of the most important Muslim leaders of the 20th century, has never been forgotten his struggle for Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence. The leadership of the Ottoman leader Aliya (Aliya) in the fight against Bosnian Muslims said that the Bosniaks have survived the genocide, and that Europe's most important Islamic society has survived, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0032par0152	Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise now to the group's deputy presidents who are demanding a commitment. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0034par0155	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've received a bitter report today. Three of the same families who were poisoned by smoke in a house in the footman's house lost their lives and four others were taken to the hospital and were taken to the hospital. I pray for God's mercy to our fallen citizens, my condolences to their relatives, and to our wounded brother's immediate healing. We are closely following the earlier agreement with the United States of America, and then the Sochi Covenant last night, as the GOOD PARTY. According to the Sochi Covenant, Turkey has in fact reached an agreement with Russia's Federation President Putin yesterday for a secure area 120km wide between Tel Abyad and Rasulayn on the Syrian border and 32km deep. Russia has previously advocated the protection of the entire border by the Syrian regime as an official position. With yesterday's agreement, Turkey seems to have taken a step back from its stance by accepting the continuation of the safe zone controlled by it for a period of time. While there has been talks about the mission to the Peace Fountain, our Bursa MP Ahmet Kamil Erozan has also explained that we, as a group of good people, stand by this view. The political consequences of each action must also be considered. In the end of each operation, unfortunately, there will be other political facts that you will have to accept. Syria needs a fast, comprehensive, lasting solution. An intimate, constructive, good neighbourly relationship with the sovereignty of Syria, territorial integrity, and political unity should be developed with the results of the Constitutional Commission and then democratic elections and the free will of the Syrian people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At this time, diplomatic relations must be restored without any prerequisite, leaving the power of authority in Syria, creating an endless dialogue for urgent issues on the agenda. A joint co-operation agreement against Terror and Terrorism Organizations, signed on December 21, 2011, should be developed in the interest of Syria, without interference in the internal affairs of any country. When the operation against Syria began, we had already stated that when the Syrian issue first came to the agenda of Turkey, the government, the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of that period, had an opinion: an Assad-free Syria. He was an Assad-free Syrian target based on all that happened to us today. What happened today? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We had to accept millions of refugees. We spent over $40 billion. We've given hundreds of martyrs. Did Assad go where we came from? No, Assad is still there. And it's in its place, getting stronger. Why did we spend so much money? Why did we give up so many martyrs? Why did we take so many refugees, and I can't help but ask the question? Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, unfortunately, 644 of our citizens were killed and 1.966 of our citizens were injured in the Van Ercish-based earthquake that took place eight years ago today. Once again, I ask God's mercy for our lost citizens. How many measures have been taken, how much has been taken to ensure that such suffering never happens again? As we've always said, the government has to focus on this matter. We have to take immediate precautions before we forget the expected great Istanbul earthquake. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0035par0167	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0034par0168	The government must also demonstrate its importance and seriousness of the Haydarpaşa tender for earthquake measures and take necessary steps as soon as possible. I'm celebrating the national holiday of Hungary on October 23rd. I'm sending a load of greetings to the descendants of Attila. On this occasion, we would like to thank both the government of Hungary and the Hungarian people for their support for Operation Peace Fountain, which we have launched against the PKK/YPG. I sincerely hope that the Turkish-Hungarian brotherhood and cooperation from history will continue forever. I salute all of our delegations and deputies.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0036par0172	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0037par0174	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, eight years ago, on 23 October 2011, there were earthquakes based in Van Ercish, and on 9 November 2011, from Van Edremit. In a series of Van earthquakes, 644 of our citizens lost their lives, 1,966 of our citizens were injured, and 252 of our citizens were rescued from the wreckage alive. On the anniversary of the Van quakes, we wish once again the mercy of all our citizens who have lost their lives, our condolences to their relatives. Now we all know that buildings don't cause earthquakes, they cause death. Risk assessments of the possible Istanbul earthquake in particular raise serious anxiety in the community and especially in our citizens living in the region. So far, we care and find it valuable to take measures related to earthquakes and natural disasters. However, it is our common wish that measures that must be taken, including urban transformation activities, should be carried out without delay, regarding the transition from risky structures to secure structures. Mr. President, two days ago, our brother Zechariah Altunok, father of two, was killed in a rocket launcher attack on the Iranian border. We also want to stress that the recent attacks on our land from our eastern borders, especially across the Iranian border, as we pray for God's mercy, his grieving family, and our nation, are remarkable. Recently there have been serious consequences in the fight against terrorism. Our state is in a stable and effective fight against the terrorist organization PKK (PKK). [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the fight against terrorism, the concept of the fight against terrorism, which is now described as entering the swamp of terrorism and draining the swamp, has been successful and has led to very serious consequences. This has not only been effective in the fight against members of the current terrorist organization, but also in the participation of the terrorist organization. According to the statement of Interior Minister Sulejman Soylu. According to the statement of Interior Minister Sulejman Soylu, the number of members of the terrorist organization, mentioned in the past, was limited to 136 in 2018, and 101 in 2019. These figures also reveal Turkey's success in fighting terrorism, not only in fighting terrorists in the field, but also in the effort to eliminate social environments and causes that will help it join the terrorist organization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, I also believe it is necessary to refer to the mothers in Diyarbakir, who were kidnapped and taken to the mountain, who were forced to wait to ensure the return of their children from the terrorist organization. Their waiting, their demands on this matter are quite right, and so far it's a very important picture on behalf of Turkey in the anti-terrorism process. We consider it very precious and want to express our support and support for the struggles of the mothers who were there.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0038par0183	Mr. Gunpowder, I believe you have an alibi.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0039par0185	Mr. President, the economic and political crisis, which the government doesn't accept, which hurts all of us very much, has devastated our suppliers, as it is in every field. A huge increase in feed prices amongst the feeders' largest entries has reached its point of completion. The manufacturers who bought 1 kilogram of carcasin and 1 bag of meat in 2016 say they could buy 1 bag of meat this year with 3 kilograms of carcas this year, and of the 4 animals they feed in the barn, 2 0% of them could only cover the cost of bait, and they didn't even account for the other costs. So obviously, when meat and milk are worthless, when you don't get the support you need, what are our growers going to do with the import-based system when the increasing costs are killing everyone? Unfortunately, by false policies, feedism has been dying in Turkey. I'm saying that we need to find an immediate solution to the cries of the feeders, to help our growers in the face of increasing costs, to abandon agricultural policies based on imports. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0038par0187	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0040par0189	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are vital to a project that will provide a positive contribution to the region's economy, which will relieve regional traffic, prevent fatal accidents due to extreme traffic along the coast. In terms of the region's economy and the comfort of inter-city traffic, it is an essential project for our region, the opening of the Fountain-Transport highway, which is to be launched immediately. Unfortunately, the work that has been asked so far has not been revealed. Our government must take the necessary steps to implement this project, which is important to the region, and the Fountain-Power highway must be opened to the people of the region. This righteous prospect of our countrymen must be met, the process must not be delayed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0041par0193	Mr. Dursun, please.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0042par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 20, 2019, we have the deep regret of burying Private Zechariah Altunok, who was badly injured and killed in the attack by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists in Yaşaşaşıt district of Yaşaşıt on October 20, 2019. I wish him God's mercy, patience and condolences on his family. More sad than that, the father of two children was discharged from police duty on December 24, 2017 and spent sixteen months in prison. There are thousands of KHK victims like this child of ours. First of all, we need to decide: If the KHK people are terrorists, why are they being drafted, and why are they still being treated as terrorists? Now, we have to pay his wife and give her a job near 2 jobs, which we don't even hire her because she's a terrorist while she's alive. How will this contradiction be eliminated? This is between the duties of the House, he says, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0043par0198	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you're making promises, and we're going to have to meet him. But I promise to keep the group's vice presidents waiting, so I'd appreciate it if you'd take the time to consider the demands. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0044par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to begin with our final martyrship in Kayseri, and with him in this operation, and with all the martyrs we've given so far, with mercy and gratitude. October 23, 2011... the anniversary of the 2011 Van earthquake. 604 of our citizens died that day, 4,152 of our citizens were wounded in an earthquake the size of 7.2. At that time, all of Turkey mobilized at the point of immediate encapsulation of the wounds. At the healing point, all our citizens, our public institutions, are doing their part, but even though we're in an earthquake belt and we've survived serious earthquakes in our history, we're obviously not enough at the prequalification point. We all know that a great earthquake awaits the largest metropolis in our country, such as Istanbul. At this point, the local governments and the central administration must coordinate and co-ordinate. We are concerned about the initiative taken by our Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor Ekrem Imamoglu, and we consider that the hand handed to Ankara by Ekrem Imamoğlu should be kept quickly, considering the future and lives of all our citizens living in Istanbul. The budget was transferred to Parliament, and the only man in the world who set his own salary in democracies is the only man in charge of our country, and he set his salary at $74,500 this year and sent it to Parliament. The only man who could raise his salary gave the worker a third in the process he said. They said to the objector, "Allah's right is threefold; what do you object to?" And they said, "He gave the officer four, and Rabia did it." He did not approve of Jehovah's third or national salutation to his own salary, and he raised it by 9%. My raise is $6,750, 3 minimum wage. His salary is 40 minimum wage. The salary is not subject to the officer's pay coefficient, nor is the minimum wage index. He set it at 9 per cent, which means that the pensioner rents the house first, pays for natural gas, electricity, water, and pays for the kitchen expenses, although despite the will of Ataturk [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Once again, we complain to our citizens. Yesterday, on various occasions, he came up with Trump's harsh letter. The AK PARTY group said, "We broke it off, we threw it away." It's raining phone calls from all diplomats to all groups. If you don't know you've torn up the letter, then you've accepted it. You will return it, and you will not accept it, and you will not say, "We threw it out of the basket, and it was in the basket." And you will not say, "When the day comes, we will take it out of the basket." Mr. President has questions about the letter to the President of the Justice and Development Party asking him to answer. In any way, why did you not return this letter, saying, "This is unacceptable." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ▪ How did you digest these expressions when you read them? Why, in what fear, anxiety, and mood did you accept this letter? 3) As you did not immediately return the letter containing insults, you hid it from the public. Why? 4) If the Americans hadn't released this letter to the public, would you have covered it up, kept it quiet? Why? 5) Since you can no longer cover up the letter containing insults, how do you intend to save the nation's honor and respond in an inappropriate manner to enter into the archives of Turkey and the United States? When? 6) It is the constitutional duty of the presidents of the Republic of Turkey to protect the glory and honor of the Republic of Turkey. Do you remember your oath in the presence of 82 million? 7) What do the concepts of the oath mentioned in your oath mean to you? We will continue to repeat these seven questions of our president until an answer to these seven questions is given to this letter, until an answer to these seven questions is given. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0045par0220	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0046par0222	Thank you, my dear President. You know, today is the 8th anniversary of the Van earthquake. In this occasion, I ask forgiveness and mercy for all our citizens, who died in the Van earthquake, and I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Your Holiness, I express our wishes to protect both our Van (Pharaoh) and our 81 provinces from such disasters. Of course, it should also be noted that immediately after that, our government had raised and rebuilt and rebuilt the government in a tremendous way, in a very short period of time. Turkey's power met with its citizen, and in that regard, our people moved on peacefully in their dwellings. Yes, I'd like to discuss a few things about this operation without causing them to deviate from the agenda in simplicity or resent it. After the post-action agreement with the United States of America and after the gains and negotiations with Russia, the agreement will permanently remove all terror elements from our region, allowing Syria to regain its territorial integrity and stability, and putting it in the safe zone, which, hopefully, is Turkey's thesis. The situation in Syria is not only the problem of Syria, or Turkey as its border neighbour, but there is a problem of terrorism in the region, and it is also the problem of the world. During the process, those who did not respond to our calls to the international community did their best to raise the problem, let alone solve it.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0047par0228	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0046par0229	However, at the point of resolving the problems of Turkey and its region, Turkey has shown a clear and decisive attitude and has achieved an effective result. Under the leadership of our President, Turkey's clear stance has destroyed all physical formations and black propaganda against us. Our hero Mehmet-chik has been crowned with diplomatic success at the table. Adeta Ziya Pasha should be the only one who does not behave with Nahh. As John Kemal wrote in a poem dedicated to our heroic army, that storm is the Turkish army. / This is the army that died for you, Lord/ that your name may prevail with the oppressors, because this is the last army of Islam. About the letter yesterday, we visually expressed how the process was observed here. The letter is categorical and rolled up and thrown into the garbage can. In the field, nine days of action, not seven questions, but 700 questions were answered effectively with bombs, drones, and SIHA. There's no better answer than that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir. However, the great success achieved on this field and on this table is the collective success of all of us in the nation and in the state. We must bring together our joy and pride for this victory. I truly thank you, Mr. President, our ministers, our diplomats, our esteemed commanders, our heroic Council, our mighty and noble nation, and to each of them I salute you, I salute you, I salute you, I salute you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0048par0234	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0049par0236	There are two obvious problems with the matter. One of the problems is that no one, except for the president of your party, has ever accepted such an insult to the Republic of Turkey on its own. There's no diplomatic response to Fahrettin Altun without his own testimony. On that day that letter was thrown into the garbage bin, a letter like this arrived, and its place was here. If your communications president shared it, there was another Turkey, another world. Eat that letter, swallow it, shut up for nine days, that's how we threw it when America shared it. We saw it here yesterday from Akbasoğlu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0050par0237	Mr. Ozgur, what is Recep Akdağ's sin? What's his sin?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0049par0238	It's really nothing more than a confession of what kind of weakness is in foreign policy.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0051par0240	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0049par0241	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where we live in a serious country where 82 million are faithfully bound to the Constitution and with civil rights and obligations. No one has anything to say for the soldier there to express his motivation over his own faith. But the Republic of Turkey is a country with a military obligation of over 82 million, going to war, joining the Turkish Cypriot Peace Corps, as well as being a citizen of non-Muslims. So the soldier there speaks of his own motivation through his faith, and no one has anything to say about it. There may be people who have seen the army that way, whose assessments are respected, but in the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, as well as the world of non-Muslim citizens...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0051par0243	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0049par0244	It's my duty to point out that these definitions -- we do for the national unity -- while they have become citizens, like the lions -- have fulfilled their military obligations in the military, as we all have, the day has come, the day has come, the day has come, the martyrs have fallen. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0051par0247	We'd better evaluate it before it gives us an answer. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0052par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't see the need to respond to this completely disconnected assessment with any answers. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0053par0255	Dear MPs, today we are faced with a process in Turkey, and we all bear witness. I've been in politics for many years, and as a friend of yours who knows the area, it's obvious that anyone who betrays the Turkish nation is not going to succeed, because betrayal of this great nation, which has led to justice, compassion, compassion, justice, and justice in the family of humanity will never come to fruition. We all testify together as the people who gave us the will at the division point of Turkey, taking our backs out of this nation's taxes and putting our taxes on the PYD. We see how the PKK/PYD (PYD) who put it in front of us, and drowned the Turkish Armed Forces with the spit of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). We have all testified together as long as their testimony has been repeated in our Parliament, but today we follow it, the PKK/PYD (PYD) who put the will in front of this country's division point. With the American support of the state, with the support of the Russians, we bear witness to the whores of the world's most modern weapons and escapes, killing Turkish soldiers by dropping bombs under stable roads. Our nation is great, 82 million of our citizens are united and united. Let not this nation, truly, this day, give us another chance to speak to these scoundrels who have taken a bullet in our nation's mercy, love, brotherhood. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 23/10/2019 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Ankara MP İbrahim Halil Oral and lawmakers have suggested that on Wednesday (23/10/2019) the parliamentary inquiry of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which has been announced by Turkey's Statistical Agency, the average annual equivalent household income is the lowest available, and that its talks should be held on 23/10/2019 on other proposals to investigate the economic problems of the provinces of Bitlis, Van, Mush and Hakkari, and the districts of Turkey. On behalf of the PARTI Group, I pledge Mr İbrahim Halil Oral to explain the reason for the proposal.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0054par0274	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to explain the grounds for the parliamentary research motion for the recent economic problems of Bitlis, Van, Mush and Hakkari, which have been proposed as a good PARTI group proposal. First, I ask the great God of our 644 citizens who died in the Van Ercish earthquake nine years ago. Honourable MPs, I would like to address you from this bench as a son of Bitlis, Ahlat, and Mush. He hopes and I believe that all of our MPs, especially the district MPs, will be willing to agree with me. I counted four provinces, one of them is Bitlis, my hometown, and the others are Van, Mush and Hakkari. Citizens in these provinces are troubled, helpless and desperate. While security problems, terrorism, and ethnic-based problems may seem to be at the beginning of their problems, the region actually has common problems in common with Turkmen, Yörük, Kurd, Arab. These are poverty, laglessness, unemployment, and inability to make ends meet. We're talking to a lot of Bitlis, Mussy, Van people. When a citizen of the region arrives, they either ask for work, seek help, or explain to them how they lost their existing work through the KHK, the slanders. A palace is being built in my hometown of Ahlat. Although the law is controversial, a palace is being built to represent our state. But with the royal palace, it wants a factory, it wants investment, it wants to get rid of unemployment, it needs employment. We can't just build a palace to show that we value that city, you can't show it. Ahlat wants to see the value he sees in our profession again. Dear lawmakers, last week, with my president, Mrs. Curious Akşener, and our party staff, we visited our local municipality, which is from the city of Mukh. The Mus people have welcomed our president and the well-being party. We've seen that the Mus people's troubles never end. The poverty is gone. Almost only watermelon can grow in that beautiful and fertile land, which has a very temperate climate for agriculture, with Murat River in its midst. As a result of the sale of sugar factories, beet production has gone down, and the tobacco manufacturer in Bitlis and Mush is in chains because of the quota brought into tobacco. If poverty has taken its toll on this paradise-like land, it must put its power hat on its front and think. We, the good party, are prepared to do whatever is on our part, along with our municipalities. According to the results of the TÜİK's 2018-Year Research on the Income and Life Conditions, the average annual equivalent household was the lowest available area of the fert income, in which Van, Mush, Bitlis, Hakkari were within our provinces. According to TÜİK data, the 2018th highest unemployment rate in the region, covering our provinces of Van, Bitlis, Mush and Haqkari, has been found to be at 21.5 per cent. If we want to destroy terror in these areas, strengthen the existence of the state, bring prosperity to our people, as Sheikh Edebali said, let the people live so that the state can live. Members of parliament, one important conclusion here is that in the same data of TÜİK (TİK) we are moving back in time. Bitlis, Van, Mush and Hakkari have been seen to have been in a lower position and ranked last in 2018 than in the other three years. There seems to be some decline here. Precious MPs, a news report and a press release by the Anadolu Agency on a study is a separate comedy. All the positive places in the study are tweezed, reported, and nothing negative has been touched, which is irresponsible.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0055par0284	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0054par0285	Thank you very much. No, poverty does not go away by saying no, friend, no, unemployment doesn't go away by saying no. A member of the ruling party, our friend, said: "There is no crisis, there is no unemployment in Turkey; there are people who don't like work." I can't accept this statement, unemployment data is in the middle, the data we're meeting today is in the middle. Again, there is no. By saying, "There is no poverty, there is no unemployment. " With these thoughts, I ask you to vote positively for our research proposal on behalf of our citizens there for Bitlis, Van, Mush and Hakkari, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0056par0289	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Burhanettin Bulut. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0057par0292	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we find the PARTI's research proposal important, we find it valuable. And the reason is that there are some values that make us people and states noble and noble. One of them is security, and the other is the state's housing of health care, but other than that, the sense of justice, especially for Turkey in recent years, is that all citizens feel the sense of justice. We can look at it legally, we can look at it financially, we can look at it as social justice. Of course, today's topic, in regional terms, includes Bitlis, Van, Hakkari, Muş, in particular, this one, but in general, the situation in Turkey is almost the same everywhere in terms of injustice. Let me give you some numbers, again, in light of TÜİK data: For example, the richest in Turkey, its income is 47 per cent. When you look at it as a fortune, it finds 58 percent, so in 2002, the 38 per cent of the highest income rate is up to 56 per cent in 2018. The picture shows that if the income of 40 percent of the population is down to 17 percent, it also shows that one third of the population is in poverty. In Turkey, when you look at numbers in recent years, all the values that have risen are in the negative table. For example, unemployment found 7 million 364,000 today. Young unemployment, for example, has found 27 per cent of the recent data. For example, the number of debtors on his credit card amounted to 3,610,000. In all of this data, you have information. What I'm going to try to say here is that I'm going to use my time very well to increase the activity of the House in this new era of Congress. So, as I started my remarks, I said that I found the research proposal of the GOOD PARTY valuable because Turkey no longer has a Parliamentary government, there is only one form of governance. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has given us a mandate in the form of governance; this task given to lawmakers is to expose regional differences, poverty, society's problems and find a solution to them. In that sense, to fight poverty, to eliminate regional differences, I'd like all lawmakers to approve this motion for research, and I'd like to offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0056par0295	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I promise Mr. Vahit Kiler. Here you go, Mr. Locker.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0058par0298	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a commitment to a good party proposal. I hereby salute our High Council. Of course, if we look at today, we can only do the evaluation on the economy, but before 2002, when we were in charge of the AK PARTI authorities, especially when we talked about justice -- not just economics -- there were areas of unfair distribution in Turkey; there was an unfair distribution in eastern and southeast health; there was an unfair distribution in education; there was an unfair distribution in transportation and unemployment. But, alhamdulillah... the four problems I've been counting, these unfair distributions, I want to talk about my own city, especially in the four-pronged area. A few moments ago, they said, let's not just build a palace, let's do different things. We've been investing in the region, east and southeast for 17 years. Unsanitary investments have been made. Let me just give you an example of Bitlis, my dear brothers and sisters: we came into office in 2002. There were four ambulances in Bitlis, a population of 350,000, and we are serving in 41 ambulances today. The total number of beds worth 350,000 inhabitants is 205; today there is a Bitlis, who serves with the medical army, which has reached 1,000 beds. The number of ICUs is zero, see, we don't have 350,000 populations and intensive care services, and we have a health care system that serves today with 134 beds of intensive care. In the same way, when the number of attendings was 6, today 153, I'm giving it to you in official numbers. Today, we have a health care system in Bitlis district with 483 medical armies, where the number of physicians was a total of 25 -- dear brothers, see, we have fellow physicians among us. Likewise, when the dental unit was four, today it's 48; it's 12 times. The dialysis device, think of a city, but unfortunately, the dialysis patient only goes to Diyarbakir to receive dialysis services, either to Van. Or the great city is coming to Ankara. It's 1,500 kilometers from Ta Bitlis, and Ankara is entering dialysis. Today, Bitlis serves all of his districts with 54 dialysis devices. Not only does the Presidential Chamber have an office, but they also have services, and they need to be seen. Likewise, of course, Mr. Ibrahim Halil, our friend, our fellow citizen, but an educator, especially as an educational MP until 1999-2002, when I was a member of Bitlis Congress, let me tell you about Bitlis's situation in education.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0059par0303	Blessed are you, Bitlis. There is nothing wrong with you!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0058par0305	The number of schools, see, 408, today is 720. The total number of classrooms, my dear brothers and sisters, which are considered worthy of the 350,000 inhabitants of Bitlis, is 1,822, and we have 5,210 classes today.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0060par0306	Bitlis is Istanbul!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0058par0307	The total number of teachers was 2,500, and today it is 5,950; it has tripled to 1. Our children study in classes of 70, today in classes of 18 and 20. We are no longer speaking today with the problems in transportation, the problems in education, the problems in health, the values of our governments and our President's instructions. Yeah, we know the problem, we have problems in the economy, we have jobs. We know the problem, we have the solution, not the research commission... We've known for 17 years how the PKK terrorist organization has been in the way of every investor we've brought in in particular in the field of employment, the problem is there. But now, in the name of God, we crush their heads one by one. Those private investors who came in, how they threatened businessmen who wanted to bring in investments in Bitlis. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0061par0311	You've delivered your message, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0062par0312	Bitlis are watching you, aren't they?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0063par0313	Everything's fine, you send walnuts, walnuts!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0064par0314	I hope there's honey and walnuts, we'll send them. We know how they threaten each investor when they come in, why they threaten each other, how they prevent factories to be built so that young people don't get jobs, so that they can find easy materials... now, alhamdulillah, with all our power, with all our power, the head of the terrorist organization there will be crushed one by one, head will be crushed until there's one last moment left, and hopefully, people will be mobilised to invest there now. In particular, investors from Istanbul, our citizens in large cities are now in the east, southeastern, looking for places to build textile workshops to create jobs. Hopefully, we'll solve the problem of employment, which is the only problem left. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With our President's strength and instructions, we will build factories, hopefully, and we will make these investments in jobs, especially in which the young population is now busy in the east, in terms of employment, and we will solve this problem. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0065par0320	Here you go, Mr. Halil Oral.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0066par0323	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. Mr. Vahit Bey probably doesn't know anything about the TİK data.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0067par0325	There is, isn't there...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0066par0326	We respect scientific, scientific data; I respect as an educator, and I expect you to respect me as a merchant. We'd like Bitlis not to lose his population. The number of MPs fell from 4 to 3. Instead of increasing employment in Bitlis, you reduced it. Fair talk was an oncology hospital, but unfortunately you canceled it.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0067par0327	You don't know, you don't know.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0066par0328	It's obvious who didn't know. I wish you'd vote yes for this research, that's what I'm sorry about. You don't live in Bitlis, but in Istanbul, so you don't know about it.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0068par0331	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0069par0333	Mr. President, this group proposal we gave you was about the poverty in Mush, Bitlis, Hakkari, and Van. But what a contrast it was that Bitlis's richest MP got up, he spoke of the poverty in Bitlis; it was an oxymoron. So it's an oxymoron to talk about the poverty of Bitlis, the richest of Bitlis. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Other than that, I was with Mr. Akshener last week in Mush. We had three municipalities there, sat down with our mayors, chatted. Look, the problem is, you're partisans, you're not serving. The mayors who go there to tell public institutions about the problems of the nation face only one thing: if you go to the AK PARTY, all these services will come, but as long as you're in the GOOD PARTY -- you're already willing to do this -- don't expect any help from us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0070par0338	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0069par0339	All of the citizens there are citizens of the Republic of Turkey, who have met in the common citizenship denominator, taxpaying, military service, and voting for the GOOD PARTI will not stop them from getting service from the state. Don't replace those people, don't alienate them, don't keep them from being loyal to the Republic of Turkey, stop being partisans. It's east and southeast where you're supposed to be at least partisans. I assure you, the people there are very sensitive about this. Your abandonment of partisanism in this matter will be enough to make the people there happy. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0070par0341	Dear Private...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0071par0343	Mr. President, I listened carefully to Mr. Locker, he left two things, he's sloppy about two things. First: ruling parties in Turkey have a responsibility not to create a period of time. It shows a great deal of weakness in power, creating an era. Second, he abandoned a new sensibilities, abandoned the spirit of the alliance. Mr. Kiler, since you took over, he left you with those very bad health investments. I swear, there are no representatives of the DSP and the ANAPP. In Parliament, the National Movement Party is here. Osman Durmi is watching, and my party is probably waiting for me to defend my rights against Vahit Kiler. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0072par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0073par0347	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0072par0349	Thank you, Mr. Special. We, of course, have considered it because we, the 57th Reich, did not think that the issue was only intended for the actions of the 57th Government.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0074par0351	Come on, you'll all go all the way to the Inön.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0072par0352	No, that's where they start, but you know. That's a lot of references to that period. During the 57th Government, the National Movement Party served its country, its nation, with a sense of patriotism, with a genuine sincerity, in health care, in the ministries of its own. I see no point in reminiscing the events of Turkey during the 57th Reich. We just remembered the earthquake. At a time when one of history's largest earthquakes took place, many economic difficulties and international manipulations took place, he demonstrated the ability to survive Turkey's longest-term coalition and to conduct it with great determination and also with great dignity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0075par0357	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0072par0358	In this regard, the Justice and Development Party can make an assessment between the past and today as it describes its own power, but we have the means to express our actions in any environment, anywhere, in the 57th Government. We have nothing to be ashamed of or bored about in any way. At this point, investments in health care are also available in government records, and that's what we say when it comes to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0076par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0077par0361	Mr. Vahit, you said what you were going to say.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0078par0362	He'll probably make a correction.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0077par0363	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0079par0365	Dear President, thank you. Of course, when I was talking about investments in Bitlis, in particular, until about 80 years, 2002, since the republic was founded, I talked about total investments, not a period. It's 55 governments... I've given you the total number of investments that were made before us, and I've given you the last 17 years, which is the most powerful Republican People's Party at the time, so please take it upon yourself. I especially want to address the Deputy Director of the Good Party. Yeah, well, I don't know who's rich like you, to be honest. The richest of all, they say. But I have a strange home in Bitlis, and I have a rich heart. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've never made human distinctions in Bitlis for 17 years, only one difference: if the PKK has committed treason, if it's working with a terrorist organization, we've always been against it, we've always built a wall against it, but on the other hand, we've been equal to everyone who stands by its flag, its state.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0080par0371	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0081par0372	Mr. Lütfü, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0080par0374	I'm not going to talk about houses, but one thing I'd like to talk about is that one of the mayors you discriminated against at Bitlis is right now, so go to the AK PARTY, and don't expect us to help you when you're in PARTI. One of the mayors you call...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0082par0375	Whoever's lying is lying. We don't get mayors from any parties, we don't accept them, we don't accept them.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0080par0376	If you'll excuse me, I'll finish. He was mayor of the Justice and Development Party last semester, a friend who was nominated and elected from us this semester. So none of the mayors who are proud to be part of the terrorist organizations you're talking about can cross our shores. For we have not sat with any of them in Dolmabahce, nor have we spoken in Oslo, nor have we spoken with Kandil, nor have we bargained in Imra; that is our concern. Thank you for your kindness, thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0083par0380	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0084par0382	Mr. President, it just got worse. First of all, there's injustice and ignorance. How is that unfair? It's not fair to him, he said, until we were worthy of Bitlis, all governments are responsible. He said, "This is what you've seen worthy of the MHP of the 57th government." He said, "This is what you've seen better than what you've seen." He also said, "This is what we've done to Demirel and to Özal. We've done to Ecevit to Ecevit and to Inönu and to Ataturk. It's a bad language, but you know what's worse? Now, when the Republican People's Party boasts about the republic's liberation, its organization and its transition to democracy, it works for you, and if something bad happens, it comes for you during the single party period. You say we all did it together? In 1946, we moved to multiparty life, from 1950 to 1960, led the Democratic Party, and from that day, there were four and a half years of CHP power. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If there's any consistency at your party... We've all built the Republic together, we've done all the work. Of course, it works for you, another one, when there's a problem with the republic, there's no two drunkards, and you attack it because it's not there, and if you look at it as your president or group vice presidents say in every polemics, in the multiparty period, four and a half years later, except for the first four years. You're saying you're most of them. You're saying that all the leaders of the centre-right deserve this much. You're saying that you're attacking State Gardener, Özal, Demirel, while you're telling us the four and a half years in sixty years or fifty years. We're complaining about this language, particularly Bitlis, to the people you voted for. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0085par0387	My final promise, Mr. Akbasoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0086par0390	Mr. President, thank you very much. There are really unnecessary polemics being created by accepting what is not said in its own way, by taking out a set of digits to prepare the infrastructure to say a word, but we have to respond to them. We'll all be together again in a week's time, let's hope for our 90-six-year-old republic. We're making a comparison.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0087par0393	We're still alive, we're still alive today.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0086par0394	The anniversary, the anniversary of October 29th, the republic...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0087par0395	Thank you, it's now, or we're living today.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0086par0396	Look, the anniversary... you have to get it right first.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0087par0397	If you're telling the truth, we'll get it right. You've added it, you've corrected it, you've done it right.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0088par0398	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0086par0399	When you misunderstand, when you want to misunderstand the 96th anniversary... look, this is very important, I'm standing on it for you: understand what I'm saying, not what you want to understand, but what we say and what we say.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0087par0400	I gave him a chance to fix it right now.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0086par0401	It's very important to him, so I'm going to say it over and over again. Let's get the papers out, I've spent the 96th anniversary, and you know that October 29th is the anniversary of our republic, right? So a week later...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0087par0403	I sent you a history book, I'll send it to you. It's my job to give you a history book.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0086par0404	We don't teach history, we make history. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE!] You already see how we write, keep watching, keep watching, keep watching our president. [Cheers and applause from good parties!] As a result, on October 29th, hopefully... we have been in power for sixteen, seventeen years in the period of the republic of ninety-six years. It's a record, a reflection of the will of the nation. Let's look at airports, hospitals, classrooms, gyms in 80 years; let's look at what's been done in 15 or 16 years; we've done it in a good way. We're here to serve our nation, we don't separate any of our municipalities; they're all earmarked from the Ministry of Interior, from the Bank of Provinces. Hopefully next week, on the 96th anniversary of our republic, we'll all live together in the glory of being crowned with victory, and we'll all cut the ribbons of one of the world's largest libraries together. We, not wardrobe republicans, as we true Republicans, hope that in our nation's service, we will show our consciousness that you will not cross the race; that's the point. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE!]
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0089par0407	Well, thank you, Mr. Akbasoglu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it would be a great pleasure and thanks to me if you would go to Ahlat, your family, during a summer vacation or something. The heart of the Turkish nation lies there.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0090par0409	I also recommend Hizan, and Hizan is good.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0089par0410	In that regard, Bitlis is worthy of any service. I believe that everyone has a desire, a thrill, to serve in it. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 23/10/2019 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. İzmir MP Atila Sertel and his friends have submitted a parliamentary inquiry motion issued by the Press Card Commission on 21/10/2019 to determine the measures taken for the survival of newspapers, the reasons for the rejection of journalists, the economic conditions of the press sector, and the reasons for their application to get a card (1278 rows). lu) has been proposed to take their talks ahead of other proposals and to meet on Wednesday (23/10/2019). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Atila Sertel. Here you go, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0091par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, here, of course, there's no way to tell the AKP Group, some of them in the garden, the issues, because they don't listen, they don't understand, they don't understand, if they understand. They're looking at the vice president's hand, and the hand's up just like it's up. Last semester, Naci Bostancı tried to scratch his head by mistake, and suddenly the whole group gave him, and we were surprised, and they asked for him again. Now, I believe they won't listen to the media's problems in Turkey, and I know I won't get any results on behalf of the Turkish press. However, we've submitted this research motion. Why did we give it to him? Turkey is widely known -- 10 of which have been called "national" in the past period -- with local newspapers, 622 of which are local, and 422 of which are covered by governorship in total 1,106 newspapers. More than 15,000 people are employed in this 1,106 newspapers -- asgari -- as an idea worker -- are eating bread there. The unemployment rate in the press sector has risen to over 30 per cent during AKP's very proud period, and the number of journalists who have been unemployed for the past decade has sadly exceeded 10,000. Euros, dollars, and paper, more molds. In the past, journalists, those children, with newspapers, write to the newspaper. They shout, "The same children are sinking, sinking." And they really can't write anymore, they're sinking. Only allies, feed media are happy because they're opening the phone to the bank's executives. Send us about a million dollars. The money transfers through the bank immediately, and an enormous amount of money is being sent to newspapers that are bought by unread by government agencies. This is so unfair. So today, let's sign a principle to solve the problems of these media and find out what these problems are, and form a joint research group from the EC PARTI, from the MHP, from the Party of Great Unity -- one person from the friend, from the Republican People's Party, from the HDP Party, whoever wants to enter, and let's work together on this commission and bring this problem to the agenda. Now, friends, there's also a problem with press cards, which I ask Mr. Vice President Fuat Oktay, who says, "There is no application for a rejected press card." The same person - Fuat Oktay -- Omar Fethi Gürer has lost the press card in the last five years. He says 3,804 journalists have lost the press card in the last five years. How do you process journalists' press cards? When I was President of the Federation of Journalists of Turkey, as a friend of yours who was on those boards when I was President of the Izmir Journalists Society, I served for six years on the Press Card Commission. I'll give you an example: Abdurrahman Dilipak was a politically distant friend of ours, on the part of the idea, but when the press card keeps coming up, I say it as a person who advocates giving Dilpak a press card and journalism. My insides are burning. Who are you to cancel a journalist's press pass? My insides are burning. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, in İzmir, a newspaper called "The First Sound" is published. Before that, there was a newspaper -- a newspaper published in İzmir, whose name I won't name -- who reported that newspaper as, and canceled the press card of all the employees of that newspaper. Now, I'm looking at that canceling commission, and you know who's in that commission, you guys, who's in charge of the commission that keeps giving out the press card? Look, this is Fetullah Gulen, and this is the lady of the press card commission, hand to hand. Where? In Pennsylvania. Not once, but twice. This lady went to Pennsylvania twice...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0092par0438	Pick it up, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0091par0439	I will, but there's no way to put it together in five minutes, Mr. President. I mean, we're trying to get it together, and there's really nothing to recover from. This lady is now on that commission, along with the SETA people, deciding who's a journalist and who's not a journalist and who's not. Brother, you went and... Master, since we knew you too late, you're a great man. Give me your hand, let me kiss your hand. How does a person so lowly as to say, "You're a journalist?" How does he cancel the press card? Then, I ask the AK PARTY Group: Are you flirting with Fetullah Gulen? Are you fighting? What are these people doing in these institutions? When you're rich, no political uncle stays or stays in prison. The owner of the largest institution in İzmir has been released, the richest one has been returned to the factory, and the conscience aches. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll give you another example, Mr. President. I'm finishing, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0093par0445	It's very deep, Mr. Atila.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0091par0446	If you'll excuse me, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0093par0447	Here you go, one more minute.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0091par0448	One more minute, I'm done. Now, there's a journalist, and Bank takes out millions of dollars in loans from Asia, and he buys villas in Bosphorus; and he defends the AK PARTI on TV every night. There's a journalist, he's preaching allegiance to Fetullah Gulen, he's sitting hand-to-hand, he's entering the Press Card Commission. Then, you get up, poor, got a job, got into a newspaper, and then you cancel your person's press card. Shame on you! It's a real shame, it really hurts. Let's look into it: why did who lose the press card? What is the problem with the press and journalists in Turkey? Let's investigate; let's get friends from every party, non-group. Please, just once... The deputy head of the group has come out, don't look at the vice president's hand, and don't look at his assistant's hand, look at your conscience, listen to your conscience for once, listen for once. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) Be free. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0094par0455	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Mr. Huseyin Örs. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0095par0458	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak on behalf of the People's Republican People's Party's group proposal on behalf of the Fine Party Group. I salute you all with the utmost respect. I'd like to start by saying that a strong local press who has solved their problems is very important to the development of democracy in our country. Among the most important complaints of today's economic woes are the fact that the local press has not been able to get enough of the official ads, commercial ads and advertising, the difficulty of providing paper, which is the paper's raw substance, and the state does not support the local press enough. Dear lawmakers, the average price of a newspaper in the early 2000s was 25 cents on the dollar when the EC PARTY came to power, but an average of 10 cents on the dollar was left to run from selling a newspaper, and the distribution company received the five cents. I mean, even the paper sale could be signed up for local newspapers. Let's look at the situation now: the average cost of a newspaper is 90 cents today, and the price of a newspaper is 100 cents today, so $1.25 goes to the distribution company. So every newspaper he sells a local newspaper costs 15 cents and 90 cents from a newspaper he can't sell. It's just a matter of paper and printing, staff and other expenses are not included. So, how did he get here? What did AK PARTY do with power? They privatized all the paper mills. And our businessmen who bought the factories built villas instead of building new paper mills. It's cheaper to bring paper from the outside than to produce it. It's called importing, it's opened up, it's come, it's gone, the dollar's gone, and now the local press is dying. The newspaper, which employs 15, reduced the number of jobs to ten, to the one that employs ten. Dear lawmakers, local journalism in the EC PARTI administration has not only failed in terms of employment, it has also ended in journalism. But I remember very well, when the AK PARTY came to power, it was against the national press, the local press was supporting it. Unfortunately, the AK PARTY forgot about the local press that brought itself to power. Now, thanks to the AK PARTY friends, they'll say: "We've increased the price of official advertising and we'll continue to increase it." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm so sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0096par0465	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0095par0466	The minimum wage increases every year; the SEC premium increases in taxes; it no longer saves the price of the paper. If they want friends from the EC PARTY, they can set up a Turkish-wide commission and go around the local press. They think the local press has a pool. The local press pool is local advertising. And thanks to you, there's no more advertising, because the firms are dying. All sectors have collapsed. The newspapers in Tripoli are like 16 pages and national newspapers we know. I used to see ads on every page, and now I can't see a commercial. What can be done here? A kind of loan for local media can be thought of, it can be done through COSGEB, it can be thought of as a loan that could be life-threatening for two years or three years without interest newspapers, or the local press is dying. He says the most important pillar or cradle of democracy is the local press, and I hope that pole doesn't get wiped out. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0096par0469	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Balıkesir MP Mustafa Canbey. Here you go, Mr. Canbey.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0097par0472	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our nation. The proposal includes yellow press cards issued to journalists and some allegations concerning newspapers that have received official ads again. These allegations do not reflect the truth, but it is clear to whom the press card will be given, as stated in the Yellow Press Card Charter. While the number of people carrying press cards in the newspapers today is 3,211, the issue includes only those carrying press cards in the newspapers that the institution has issued official ads and ads. Other than that, the owners and employees of newspapers, private radios and televisions and news agencies are not included in this figure; including these, there will be over 15,000 yellow press cards. So as there is no anomaly, Mr. Sertel, who has been president of the Society for many years, knows this fact very well. Of course, there are certain rules about getting a press card. Press cards are organised regardless of the names and political views of media outlets of which all members of the press have worked, which carry the conditions in the regulation and complete the application assessment procedures. As it is alleged, there is no embargo, no list, by the President of Communication, but dear friends, there is an exception that is related to the security of our country, the fight against terrorism. And at the point of counterterrorism, our government is doing what's necessary. The allegations regarding the evaluation of the Press Card Commission and the cards do not reflect the truth. The Press Card Commission was formed by the Communication Presidency on December 14, 2018, December 30625, according to the provisions of Article 19 of the Press Card Charter, which was published and entered into effect in Article 30625. The Commission includes nine members selected from representatives of media organisations such as Communication Presidency, various associations, trade unions and press card holders. So it's not true, dear friends, that the new Press Card Regulation has been pushed out of the press card process by trade union, association and so on. The approval of the members of the Commission and the cancellation of the press cards are not mentioned, but the cancellations are carried out under Article 29 of the regulation. There is no other requirement for a press card cancellation, except under the conditions specified in the article. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just one more minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0098par0480	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0097par0481	In the new system, the President of Communication has done important work on press cards, and the old cards have been renewed and distributed to the rightful owners and continue to be distributed. In addition, journalists who have been unemployed for any reason have been allowed to carry press cards again during this period, with a free press card application, allowing them to carry press cards. As the EC PARTI government, we have not been indifferent to the problems of the press sector as well as in all parts of the country, we have done the necessary interventions, we have distributed millions of dollars of resources into our newspapers, and we continue to distribute them. The basic inputs of the written press, especially in paper, have actually increased a little lately -- because it's based on tattoos -- but, dear friends, you know why, we're not going through a very normal time. As Trump himself said, an economic intervention has been done in our country, and foreign currency prices have risen, and there is a situation that stems from it. We're trying to round him up by providing our press with the necessary support. Through the press ads, in 2018, [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have another minute?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0099par0486	It's a deep issue, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0097par0487	It's over.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0099par0488	You said what you said, my friend.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0097par0489	Well, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0100par0491	Mr. President, when speaking on the stand, İzmir MP Atila Sertel, who spoke on behalf of our group, listed what she had said and said that there was nothing to be criticised about what Atila Sertel had criticised. He needs to fix it as he is.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0099par0492	I'll give you my word on that.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0100par0493	But Mr. President, he made the mistake from the stand, and the Civil Code gave him the right to answer from the 69 podiums.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0099par0494	Look, Mr. Atila agrees. Here, Mr. Atila, I promise you in your place.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0101par0496	It's got to be the bench.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0102par0497	Mr. President, he needs to answer from the bench for two minutes, so let's not violate the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0101par0498	Mr. President, because he claims I twisted it, or else...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0103par0499	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0101par0503	I don't know about this guy's profession, but to tell him that I'm twisting these things, I think he's got some information about the press business, but he's not. Look, we're asking Mr. Fuat Oktay, the Vice President, and we're saying, "Did you cancel the press cards?" The answer is: "Yes." He says, he gives us a clear number, and we also cancel the press card of 3.804 journalists. Let's investigate his motives, why did you cancel it, who canceled it? Let's agree on that. Couldn't get together for 13 months, the Press Cards Commission. Then from SETA, I said, they filled up the people I just showed your picture to. You also know SETA, an organization that plugs journalists, it's an organization that informs journalists on other parts and plugs them with their résumés. My dear friend, I will give it to you if you will, even though so many people have applied from Universal to the daily Green Banaz to the daily Aegean Telegraph, 9 September to the Trade Journal, they have not received their card. And at this point, when you judge a person, you look back on your own past. You've worked in the newspaper. It's your problem if a person standing hand-to-hand in front of a local newspaper doesn't give him a card. Take a look at this, take a look at that organization, how it was founded, who built it? Why did you build it? Look, there's the Association of Journalists of Turkey in Istanbul, Turkey's largest profession. The Federation of Journalists of Turkey is Turkey's largest trade organisation. İzmir Journalists Society, Ankara Journalists Society, Turkish Journalists Union... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President. Mr. President, let me finish this.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0104par0509	He can't, he can't, Brother Athila. Get him on the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0101par0511	Let's get him on the record. The Union of Journalists of Turkey, from a Press Cards Commission founded by press trade organisations, you took informants, informants, former associates, you made an organization. I'm telling you, it's your shame, so put your shame away. Put this away, and then we'll talk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] But vote positive for this research motion, vote once. Let's get together, who's gonna convince who? I mean, for that... Part of the AK PARTY group came back from the garden, provided the majority. Let's do that.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0105par0520	We're taking a vote.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0106par0521	Wait a minute, Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0107par0522	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0108par0523	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0107par0524	Mr. President, look, he has a right to an answer.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0109par0525	But the roll call started.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0107par0526	Well, the answer is, sir, we have the rights to answer because he's our friend who's being teased first, and then he's picking on our group.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0109par0527	According to the procedure, the work that's already started... [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] Request roll call.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit01spe0110par0531	Mr. Gürer, Mr. Şevkin, Mr. Şülbül, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Özer, Mr. Bayer, Mr. Sertül, Mr. Hakverdi, Mr. Küncü, Mr. Keven, Mr. Ilhan, Mr. Celebrity, Mr. Yilmakkaya, Mr. Çakırözer, Mr. Budak, Mr. Kadıgil. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0110par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Canbey, please.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0111par0015	Dear friends, the speaker who just spoke on behalf of the CHP has stated that he does not know who I am. Of course, I know him, I know the 9 September newspaper, I know the Izmir Journalists Society, and I know he's the head of the Izmir Journalists Society, but he's so interested in the problems of the profession that he doesn't know the Deputy Director General. I just want to remind him of that. I was vice president of the press ad for three years...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0112par0016	You're not a professional. I've been a journalist for 15 years, 15 years. Now, you can't just talk and deal with the problems of journalists. I don't know you because we're dealing with the president.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0113par0019	And I'd also like to say that the secretary has just told reporters that no yellow press cards have been issued. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, for the record at the meeting on July 24th -- all 671 press members have been given a yellow press pass. There's not a single person who hasn't been given.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0112par0023	Thirteen months later...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0114par0024	According to the decision taken, we are moving on to the part of the agenda of the law proposals and from the Commissions to work. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal 88, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with Konya MP Ziya Altunyaldız and the Commission for Information and Technology Report of the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology Report of 85 Congressmans to Change Customs Law. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 104 rows. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. The first word on the entire proposal is for the Good PARTY Group, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0115par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group to make a amendment to the Customs Law. I salute the High Council. As you may recall, a draft of a new customs law in line with the Union's Customs Code, which the European Union implemented in 2016, was presented in the first quarter of this year. The opinion has been passed on, but since then, there has been no improvement in the draft. In fact, the new draft of the customs law had even been assessed as a result of the decline in relations with the European Union and the upgrade of the Customs Union. As all these developments took place, the government's proposed amendment to the Customs Law was referred to parliament, accepted by the Commission, and came to General Assembly. Although we generally consider this proposal for the law, which envisions a change in the Customs Law, as we say in almost every law proposal, I would like to say once again that it is necessary for the opposition parties and the relevant NGOs to come to an end with their opinions, proposals, and supports. Mr. President, when we look at the law proposal in general, we see that it does not have a comprehensive content, such as the drafting of the new customs law that had previously been on the agenda, but rather a narrowly comprehensive law proposal for sentences. On one hand, criminal sanctions are increased, and on the other hand, some fines are reduced. Do you have any idea what it's like for us to have a reduced sentence, whether we want to or not, how we're going to avoid the increase in trafficking? Customs smuggling is one of the biggest problems this country has had in years. Little things make big things, don't forget. Haven't you seen any contraband in shop windows or street streets? Or didn't you think that when you buy a product or something that's far below market price, how do you sell it at this price? For example, the government, which trusts smokers to complete its budget deficit, raises cigarettes daily. These raises never reduce smokers, but they make cigarette smugglers rich. Half the price sold at grocery stores in Turkey is now sold illegally. So this increased customs tax led to cigarette smuggling, which didn't stop smokers from smoking, especially in this economic difficulty, people in this economic distress, who have been smoking themselves to forget their troubles, which is even worse, because it's increased a little bit.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0116par0044	They say cigarettes are forbidden, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0115par0045	Get out of the parliament and go to the alleys of Kızılay. See if that view is widespread throughout Turkey. I'd like to give you an example of international transportation in our country. You know, in order to do international transport, you have to have a B1 authorization; you have to have at least 150 seats; you have to have a capital structure of at least $100,000, but that's not the case. The men, with panelvan-type Uber-style vehicles, spend Bulgaria with people who don't know each other, as if they were related. On the way back, that vehicle is entering Turkey with other people, with illegal products, with the same license plate. No one asks them, who are you, where are you going, and what have you brought with you? As if this smuggling was not enough with an organized 40-50 vehicle, our citizens with B1 warrants, taxpayers, even if the seats are empty, are doing damage. Think of all the contraband you see in those small vans in Turkey. Just last year, customs revealed over $3 billion in smuggling. Think of what they've done with a lot of blanks, and at least $3 billion in contraband, and there's goods that go to Turkey, and I'm telling you at best. You'll see the undetected smuggling rate when you go outside and get out of your car. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Minister of Trade Mr. Ruzar Pekcan, recently made a statement. In preventing trafficking in customs, we add another one to high-tech investments and projects to increase the activity in reducing informality. He stressed that a high-tech technical infrastructure was established in the Ministry of Trade to conduct customs controls in a way that does not slow down the speed of international trade, to combat illegal trade in the most efficient way. Let's hope this new system is an app that will prevent smuggling. But remember, you can't reduce the demand for smuggling and illegal goods without getting in the way of its sale and trade; you can't control sales and streets, especially on the Internet. Every precaution that's taken soon becomes dysfunctional. Dear friends, we're discussing the already prepared Customs Law, and I think it's appropriate to talk about tax revenues, or rather I'd like to talk about the government's expectation of customs tax revenues. The other day, it appeared to the press that the government is expecting $73.5 billion in collections of customs tax revenues over the next three years. According to the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal, it exceeds $21 billion per 2020, according to expectations of rejections and returns and local government shares, given the cost of import taxes being collected, the expectations of imports, the changes to the exchange rate. The revenues are expected to reach $24 billion in 2021, and 27 billion in 2022. I want us to get back to reality, let's face it. Look, in our country today, due to the economic crisis, taxes can't be paid, our people can't pay their debts. Take a look at how much tax collection has been made in the first nine months of this year by the tax office being issued a declaration. The tax revenues in nine months amounted to $680,635,000, and the collection is just 485 million, so about 75 per cent. I won't go into the pencil and pencil details of these, but I want to say that more than 70 per cent of the taxes collected in Turkey are collected from indirect taxes. Today, taxes cannot be collected in Turkey. Why? Because our people are unemployed. As unemployment increases, people's spending is reduced, and when spending is reduced, the government's taxes are reduced, so the budget deficit is growing substantially. Our chairman, Coral Akşener, mentioned in his speech at yesterday's group meeting, and I find it useful to repeat, to emphasize: If people are unemployed in this country, if there is no production, if the banks are in foreign hands, even the most strategic institutions of the state have been delivered to other countries, your back is bent in politics and diplomacy. We have over 8 million unemployed citizens today with 1 million 100,000 college graduates. The unemployment rate in our working age has doubled, and unemployment in our cities has been increasing for 16 months in a row. In the last two months alone, 2 million more of our citizens have been unemployed. Young unemployment rose to 27.1 per cent in July 2018, with 19.90 per cent in July 2019. Of every 100 young people you meet today in the halls of the House, in the streets, in the neighborhood, in the market, 27 are unemployed. The young woman's unemployment is even worse, and 41 of every 100 women in urban areas are unemployed today, with 33 of every 100 young women unemployed. I know these don't touch much when you're talking about young people's unemployment. Because I see that almost a lot of politicians' freshly graduated children have been assigned high wages in the House. This is unfairly disrupting the competition between young people against the youth on the street, while increasing the nation's anger towards Parliament. They say we can't get a job for minimum wage while the children of the MPs are being put to work in parliament, in municipalities with honey salaries. In Turkey, unemployment remains the worst social injury. Right now, and in the future, Turkey's most important problem is unemployment. The future problems of Turkey, young people and women cannot be solved with palliative measures, temporary and curvature of employment styles, with ISKUR resources being poured into incentives that do not create jobs. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is not producing. The chimneys of the factories go out one by one. As an industrialist, I regret to inform you that I no longer have any employment. I've told you this before, I'm the MP from Marseilles, I've come from the Bigeli Industrial Room, I've come from the OSB administration. When I became a congressman in 2011, the easiest job for me was to get a job with someone who applied. Because when we phoned any factory, there were people looking for jobs, and there were people looking for workers, and I didn't have much trouble getting them to meet. But right now, they don't produce 70 per cent of businesses in Hosheli, and all over Turkey, and those who don't, they hire workers, and they're all looking for you. You guys can't do anything. Because no factory in your area is producing properly.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0117par0053	We're looking for you. You're not hiring one.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0115par0054	Yes, I'd call Mr. Tahsin, Reverend, there's a fellow worker, he's applying. I'd say he's hiring too, but we're not building the factory of Tahsin Bey or any other factory in that area, including my own factory. Not producing is two ways: one, increase in costs due to increased currencies. You know what the second one is? You're going to produce, it's very difficult to get the money for the goods you're selling. You're billing, and your billing client sends you a concerto instead of paying 15 days later. So I'm having trouble paying this money, so you'll have to wait a little bit. How long is that going to take? Five years. It's impossible to produce in such an environment. By prioritizing investments, by encouraging them, Turkey must quickly switch to a model based on production and efficiency, an economic model based on production, not concrete, but production. It's not just industrial production, it's agricultural production. Farm production is the first step in resolving the current employment. Last week we were in Mush. Our mayor in the city of Mush, had a very beautiful saying: "Every field is a factory. " He said, "It is indeed. If agriculture is truly encouraged, subsidies are serious, rightfully distributed in favour of the farmer, each field is a factory in Anatolia. We can solve unemployment, employment, and contribute to the country's production. The income from agricultural products is actually the most important resource in the country's development. The subsidies in agriculture must be significantly increased, and the crops that have been harvested should seriously apply state subsidies, so that people can grow, harvest, harvest, harvest, grow, and live for that year, and eat for that year. I keep telling you, the subsidies he's going to give the farmer won't hurt this state. With the subsidies the government gives the farmer, the farmer doesn't go and gamble in Las Vegas, Miami doesn't buy an apartment, he doesn't buy a boat in Bodrum. He marries his child, changes his furniture, builds his house, so he spends all his money in this country. As soon as he spends it, you automatically return 35 per cent or 40 per cent of it in various ways as taxes. You're taking back 40 liras of every $100 you've already given, the subsidies you've already given, as tax. So, you're not doing this, what are you doing? We import wheat, import seeds, import onions. In the treasury, we spend savings in the central bank on importing agricultural goods. The most imports in Turkey after oil are in agricultural products. If you distribute very little of the foreign currency -- look, I don't mean all of it -- into subsidies to farmers -- this farmer will be comfortable and you'll have jobs in his place, and production will be domestic production. I won't give you wheat, I won't give you oil in any diplomatic distress the day after tomorrow." he does not press it. I remember the year 1978, the oil lines. The main reason for those oil tails was that Turkey couldn't produce oil. Unable to produce oil, without currency, an oil line formed in Turkey. If you don't have a change, you'll be starving right now. If Turkey's currency ends now, people will eat each other, I assure you. We import meat, import wheat, import onions, import oil. What haven't we imported? From the moment the exchange is over, the whole country is hungry, everyone's hungry. Taking into account this, it's one of the most important issues that governments have to do to develop this as a business model, actually as a model of development. Turkey has the necessary resources, as long as we put production at the center of the economy and quality at the center of production. We put concrete at the center of all of this, put roads at the center of all of this. It's nice to make the road, of course it's comfortable, but can I tell you something? During a conversation with the head of a private bank, he said: "The road developers earn the most money." I said, "Why can't you measure the bottom of the road?" he said. ▪ They make a lot of money. That's why we give them so much credit." he said. Gentlemen, if a production-based economic model had been developed instead of depositing money on the road, concrete, land, this 17-year-old power you've always defended, you've always talked about, Turkey would have traveled a mile. Currently, Turkey has been nothing more than a country that has buried its central bank resources in concrete. It's also a coincidence that the 2019 budget's only falling pen is investment expenses, isn't it? The Entity Fund, which is filled with supporting staffs, is again buying constructions by fellow businessmen without customers. So the whole thing with Turkey is over, and we're moving the asset fund to reduce the risks of the bankrupting contractors? The children of this land tomorrow the day after tomorrow... you're always saying there's a bill. Don't think it's only on the other side, there's an account in this world. Now, you may not realize it very well, you're on trial, you're on the phone to any judge you want, you're making any decisions you want, but I'd like to remind you that the account on the other side will be seen the day after tomorrow when this opportunity is gone. I invite you to reconsider. You should spend money on infrastructure projects that will develop trade, our COBIs to open new markets, COBI support programmes. See, then you'll see how business is growing. See how business opportunities arise for our citizens as the corporations gain more. I wish you the best of this bill. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0118par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0119par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0120par0065	Mr. Special, do you want a word?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0118par0066	Yes, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0120par0067	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0118par0070	Mr. President, we've moved on to the interviews of an important law proposal. We talked about it yesterday, and the Constitutional Court says: "Meclis must ensure that there are enough meetings in all business and transactions." Of course, it's in opposition, and it's in the ruling party to ensure that. But we can do that in the roll call process, which is before the vote, and those who split up like freckles during the negotiations go in and vote like the Chinese army during the vote. That's not the right approach.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0121par0072	Where are you, where are you, where is CHP? There's no CHP.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0118par0073	We're trying to fulfill the responsibility to run the House as carefully as possible.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0122par0074	So there's only 18 of you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0118par0075	But the Justice and Development Party Group is 224 people in the vote and 18 people in the negotiation are not.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0122par0076	Look behind you, behind you, how many are there? Free, look back, look how many of you are.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0118par0077	Sir, it's the ruling party's responsibility to run the House.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0122par0079	There's no gentleman here, Parliament; you're paid, you're paid; you're coming, you're coming!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0123par0080	Are we getting paid from you?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0124par0081	What are you getting?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0122par0082	It's not just power, it's you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0125par0083	Shut up! Shut up!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0126par0084	Congressman, let's not talk mutually; your Group President wants a word.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0122par0085	Sir, they're acting too.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0127par0086	The deputy doesn't know, is power represented in Parliament with 24 people?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0122par0087	And you (O dear Prophet Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him) are a trustee, and you are a trustee. Are you not a trustee? You should come, you should come, I should come.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0128par0088	This is your group president, friends.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0129par0089	Now, Mr. President, this is the approach of a representative of a political movement that perceives democracy as a formal issue and tries to discredit the House by doing so. It is the responsibility of the ruling party to ensure the meeting of this House is sufficient. We have a control responsibility, so it's obvious how it's going to be done. If you can't do it, you can go, people will fill those seats instead of filling it.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0122par0091	Look back, look back, there's the rest of you!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0129par0092	That's why people don't give you jobs. Besides, our alliance partner spoke, and we all listened very carefully; your alliance partner will speak, and there are 16 of you in the hall. I don't believe it! You got to be a little careful with this stuff. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0131par0096	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0098	Thank you, my dear President. First of all, I would like to say, Mr. Deputy President of the Group, who has addressed the bench, that Turkey has come to $170 billion export from $36 billion; $170 billion in exports; and now we export processed agricultural products related to agriculture, and we export more than 10 times as much.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0132par0100	No, man, you don't know that stuff. For God's sake, you don't know those things; she's not like that, believe me; I wish it were like that.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0101	At the same time, Turkey had $236 billion in non-nationals, and 16 years later, we raised it to over $800 billion.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0132par0102	Look at him, what's the rate of imports to meet exports?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0103	Loud and clear. I think these samples are enough.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0133par0105	What's the unemployment number?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0134par0106	Make it a double road.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0107	Secondly, look in the mirror first, what the Deputy President of the CHP Group has just said. In fact, parliament is where the opposition speaks...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0135par0108	We're here.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0109	...but look at your number in the House, look at your percentage.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0135par0110	You take care of that!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0111	Look at your own ratio first. It's obvious we're all here. Dear friends, look, all our friends are here.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0136par0113	Where?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0114	Working with his constituents, you know that. It's clear that over 200 of our deputies were just here. And where's the rest of you?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0137par0115	It's all here.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0116	Dear friends, they're not all here. It can zoom in on the cameras. You want a roll call with 20 people...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0137par0117	We will.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0118	...you're looking back, there's three of you left.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0137par0119	Where are the three left?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0130par0120	Yesterday, there were three of you. Therefore, let those who bring criticism correct themselves first. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0138par0122	Mr. Recep tells you to come in. The President says, you don't listen to the President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0139par0123	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0140par0124	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0141par0125	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0140par0127	Mr. President, now, Mr. Group Vice President has added another one to his mistakes with history. I can tolerate your failures in economics because he understands less than economics, he's normal; he doesn't know much about these things as a lawyer. But I want to say one thing: I wish what you're saying is true, and I want it, too. I'm a citizen of this country, I'm a Turkish nationalist. I want Turkey to always be in the best places, but the truth isn't. Look, can I tell you something? Do you know who beat you on March 31st? Onions were eaten, onions. Rest assured, it was the onion that beat you on March 31st. Onion fell into a black market, it started selling in order in a grocery store, and on March 31st, you were eaten by onions. There are no onions in Turkey, no onions, that's the problem.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0142par0129	With your misinformation, you led these people on onions. Your fate is too great.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0143par0130	Mr. President, it's 60 grams of onions... and people who can't eat it just because they stink. Let go of the onions! They're pouring it this year, too.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0140par0131	It is true that exports have increased in Turkey, but imports have also increased. If you look at the import rate of exports, you'll understand what I'm saying. Take a good look at those numbers. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0144par0133	Why don't you look at those numbers and look at the numbers we gave you? Your numbers are right, our numbers are wrong?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0145par0134	So the opposition doesn't weigh as much as an onion.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0140par0135	That's all you know, that's all!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0145par0136	The opposition doesn't weigh as much as an onion.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0140par0137	You only know how to take it! You only know how to get it out of the city.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0145par0138	Tell me, tell me, it's fun!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0146par0139	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0147par0141	Mr. President, once again, this ruling party has the responsibility to bring at least 200 MPs to the House. The opposition party's responsibilities are clear with 5, 15, 20 MPs, but if I'm the ruling party's deputy leader, I'll see how many lawmakers have signed this law. Your 86 MPs have signed under the law, 86. They don't follow the law they signed. What can I tell you? What more can I say?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0148par0143	What's happened to you two days? You've been asking for a roll call every ten minutes for two days. You're filling up HDP's absence.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0149par0145	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0150par0146	Don't be rude! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0151par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0152par0148	Mr. Akbasoglu, wait a minute... Congressmans, our nation already follows and appreciates the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so they're making an assessment. There's not much to say about that. I believe the presidents are following. They're always taking him into account when there's lists and stuff going on. Let's not get ahead of ourselves here.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0153par0150	They don't listen to their president, they don't.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0154par0151	He is the President of the Republic of Turkey; he is not the President of the Republic of Turkey. The President of Turkey is the President of Turkey, not the President of the Republic of Turkey. Disrespectful bastard!
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0152par0152	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0155par0154	Thank you, my dear President. Indeed, when the opposition is unable to find serious criticism to say, it is simply trying to create an agenda through polemics and false information and slander. I'm now returning to him the style of the Deputy Director of the Good Party, so I'm offering his approach to ignorance and other matters only under his own level and his own knowledge. The numbers that I'm giving you are the numbers that our whole nation lives in, that we know and appreciate, that make us in power. The people speak, and the rest is nothing but idle talk and idle talk. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0156par0159	I swear to God, you've lost to an onion.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0157par0160	Where are your 86 signed men? The signature is honor; he'll come here, he'll follow.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0155par0161	There's no need for delusions.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0158par0162	Yes, Mr. Mehmet Göker.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0159par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. It's been eight years since the Van earthquake of 6.7. I ask God's mercy for the 644 lives we've lost. On this occasion, we have learned that the earthquake is a painful fact of our country, and that the most damaged in these earthquakes are the buildings of public enterprises. And I'd like to present to the attention of the Minister of Health that the Burdur State Hospital in my district has been scientifically decomposed, yet no new hospital has been built. Because we've done it before the local elections, we'll do it. At the place of the building and the business where the signs are hung, there's no operation at the moment, the tender's been cancelled, and they've removed the sign. I'm calling to the Minister of Health: This is a matter of life, so please take care of it, Burdur. He needs a hospital immediately.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0160par0168	Mr. Arkaz...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0161par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Thrace, with its air, water, land, and people, is one of the most valuable parts of Europe. About 20 per cent of our country's population lives in Thrace. There are 3 provinces, 3 seas, 3 mountains, 3 forests, 3 universities. Three provinces have only one stream, Ergene. The fertile land fed by this stream was one of Turkey's most important collapse basins, even Europe. The teenager is no more. The stream became a fluid, and the young man ran out of running water. The Ergene basin, which used to be a water mill, which provided for Turkey's need for rice, was destroyed for unplanned construction. If the teenager is to be cleaned up, we need to protect his resources first. Thrace should not be wasted in Turkey's only region of Europe. I salute the General Assembly. Blessed is he who says he is Turkish.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0162par0177	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Esin Kara. Here you go, Mr. Kara.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0163par0180	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of all of the proposals for amendments to Customs Law 104. I salute our Veteran Assembly. I wish Allah's mercy to Turan Ilteber Yalçın, the precious son of our Vice President Edip Semih Yalçın, who was lost in an accident last week. Maybe not like a mother, a father, a wife, a brother, but like a friend, we're hurt. My Lord will give patience to his family. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs of the great Turkish nation: The flag is the daughter-in-law of the motherland, I've dedicated this life to being a Turk, Mother. I took the oath when I was twelve, I've dedicated this life to Turkishism, Mother. I will take the head of a man who takes the head of the land, which is a square mile [783,562 km] of the great Turkish nation. He has once again proved to the world that the hero Turkish soldier is not joking, that he has no land to give, that he has reserved a square foot for the traitor, that he has a square foot for every terrorist, that he is under the ground; that he is not in the thousands of trucks of military ammunition, but in the heart of the faithful heart of the heroic Turkish soldier. May Almighty God grant victory to the great Turkish state, the great Turkish nation, the great Turkish army until the end of the day. The sword of the Turkish army is sharp and blessed. From here, I salute all our heroes, Mehmet, who served in Operation Peace Fountain. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Since our proposed law is related to the Customs Act, on May 27, 1980, I remember our Minister of Customs and Tekel Gün Sazak, our brother's mercy and gratitude, who had been betrayed by the Dev-Sol militants in his coup and smuggling. Mr. President, regulations have been made concerning the first amendment of the law proposal and the duration of which it can remain in the customs area, which has been approved by customs at the temporary storage area of the arrival customs administration, and which is carried from one place to another in accordance with the rules of the transit regime. It has been taken into consideration of the financial responsibility of the real person responsible for being subject to the transit regime, added to Article 24458's Article 86, as well as the fact that the actual responsibility to the customs administration has been carried out under the Law on Trafficking and Anti-Trafficking. Under Article 3 of the proposal, Article 167 (Defense Industry) has been added to Article 167, which may have been issued earlier and may have been removed from the customs tax due to the commitment of the Defence Industry Undersecretary to the Presidential Office. Under Article 4 of the proposal, arrangements have been made for the removal of the property. The 5th article of the proposal has been extended by the rights of the dissolution of the property, which is held in Article 179, to continue customs operations. At the same time, it has not been granted the right to take advantage of such ease for the property to be passed on to the public. Under Article 6 of the proposal, the right to apply within a year of the release and extradition of the amount entrusted to its owner, as well as the release date. Under Article 7 of the proposal, it has been reduced to 120 per cent of the amount in which the law should be guaranteed to pay customs taxes and other amma-receives under Article 202. The 8th article of the proposal has been arranged for the amount of time that is valid, if the extra collection is due to the obligation or in other cases, in the repayment of collectable tariffs and delay hikes, depending on customs taxes and their payment. The number of tardinesss is based on the number of interest rates set according to Law 6183. Under Article 9 of the proposal, conditions for being an assistant customs consultant have been revised, and under Act 3713 there is a condition not to be convicted of crimes under the scope of the fight against terrorism. The 10th article of the proposal has been decided that if the property is not found, its property will be passed on to the public. Again, the provision for administrative sanctions has been decided that there will be no administrative fines or interest if the duty is misexplained by the customs administration. In case the administration misexplains in writing, we believe that the previous punishment would lead to victims, while we think it would be more careful and more careful when customs workers do their duty so as not to encounter the crisis. Article 11 of the proposal, Article 4458 and Article 234 of the Law (2) were ordered to act under customs control, and due to the processing regime and full immunity of the temporary import regime, as a result of the examination and inspection or hand-over, it has been decided that if the differences specified in Article 234 will be fined for half the tax difference in half the amount of the tax difference if the Article (1) determines the differences specified in the article. In the event the statement is corrected, the sentence shall be imposed at 10 per cent before the assessment of the customs administration. The 12th article of the proposal has been made about the transactions caused by tax loss. The difference is four times more administrative fines than customs tax, as well as customs tax, if the overall regulator determines that imports are banned through administrative procedures. Again, administrative fines have been issued for importing documents that must be submitted to customs administrations and information that replaces these documents, which will be cut in the absence of them. If the import of the item is reported to be admissible by the document or information found appropriate or that the audit carried out by the relevant institution and organisation is a positive result, the 241st article shall be fined according to the (1)th joke. Although the export of the property depends on the license, permit, fitness document or information that is required to be given to the customs administration, or the notification that it has been issued, or that it has been submitted as a document or information, the customs value of the property will be fined by up to one percent of its administrative fines. In order for such measures not to turn into abuse for this reduced sentence to encourage increased exports, the measures must be taken in a maximum manner. Since there is no document or information, it has been deemed appropriate to transfer the property from private property within 30 days, directly to the third country with the appropriate opinion of the relevant institution or organisation, at the request of the person in charge of the non-employable property. During this time, it has been decided that the value of the property which has been discovered, which has not been found after the handover, will be passed on to the customs authorities for the removal of or dispossession of the property from the owner of the sale or expenses of the property that is not returned or exported, will be passed on to the public. Again, in the matter, the fines brought to the Turkish customs area and imposed on the transit regime for transport to the arrival customs administration have been sentenced in the event of the control or examination of non-free movement of property. Prior to the detection of these differences, it is based on the ten per cent of the fines calculated in the event the statement owner regretfully reported it himself. In the case of the proposal's 13th article, the fact that the property is clearly different from the control and examination of the customs, the antrepo regime, and is identified without need of analysis, technical examination or research, the sum of the different object of the customs taxes is subject to 2 times the amount of other property of the customs tax, if the object is higher than the sum of its customs taxes. The 14th clause of the proposal, in violation of the processing regime and the temporary import regime and provisions of the processing regime under customs, is twice the customs value of the property; in violations of the regime for special use, which is temporarily imported by full exemption, there will be a quarter of the amount of administrative fine imposed on customs taxes. While provisions regarding the process regime and the processing regime under Customs control have been violated, the regime has ruled that the increase of import property -- including its first state or operational state -- has not been removed from customs custody in violation of the legislation, as much as the total administrative fine of interest, as determined by Law 6183, has been imposed by the date of the declaration on customs taxes and the regime. Except for special vehicles imported temporarily, with the exception of the temporary import regime, it has been decided that if the imports are not subject to any other transaction or use of the property approved by customs during the duration of the period of its importation regime and the duration of the declaration concerning the regime will be fined by the amount of administrative fine at the amount of time determined by Law 6183 until the date of the registration date. The (1)th joke (c) and (d) of the item specified in thebents has been sentenced to administrative fines if it is not subject to any other processing or use approved by customs within 60 days of the notification date, as well as customs duties. The 15th article of the proposal is determined to be 8 times the punishments in the (1)th joke, provided the information and documents demanded in writing according to Article 11 and the documents which should be kept under Article 13 shall not be submitted during customs control for five years. Under Article 16 of the proposal, the basis for the right to a plea or to a plea to be agreed on by customs authorities is the right to a plea, and the application of the delay interest, which will be calculated as part of the agreement until the appeal is met. Under Article 17 of the proposal, there are provisions that the permission documents of customs advisers and customs assistants will be taken until prosecution of those who have been prosecuted under Law 3713 have been suspended for six months at the most for a measure required by Ministry inspectors and Customs and Foreign Trade Regional Directors. With the 18th and 19th amendments of the proposal, the General Manager, the Deputy Director of Customs, the Deputy Director of the Office, and the Head of Trafficking and Intelligence of the Central and Country Organization, the District Chief, Section Chief and Customs Protection Officer are also sentenced to be able to use it in retirement, as well as to be able to use it in retirement, provided it is limited to -1 of the titled personnel. The 20th and 21st articles of the proposal are executive and executive clauses. I'd like to point out that we welcome any steps to increase exports, preventing trafficking. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have repeatedly addressed the problems of free accountants and sworn financial advisors on the stand of our great House. On October 15, 2019, our Treasury and Finance Minister issued Circus 118 of Tax Usual Law. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for hearing our voices. These circuses have been very welcome in our professional community, and we're happy to hear it. However, the circus has its flaws. In the circus, seven days have been added to our notices if the person himself, his wife, his child, his or her mother, or his or her wife's or his brother's brother die within a period of seven days. Yes, this seven-day extension is sufficient time, but there is no difference between eight days and seven days before the declaration is granted. Our request is: Yes, it is very important that when we make a statement, if our relatives die in the first degree, they will be judged within that month, not only seven days. Again, there are shortcomings in our circus. In these circuses, only the death of relatives in the first degree or of sworn financial advisors was taken as a motive; the state of severe illness or the state of birth of a female professional was not taken as an obvious cause. Imagine you're making a statement in your office, you're a female financial advisor, and on the last day of the declaration, you went to the birth, you failed to approve your statements, and your taxpayers will face punishment again. Look, there's something wrong with the circus. Now, five days before the declaration is filled, imagine that you had a heart attack in your office, and you've been admitted to intensive care, and if you die within these five days, your charges will not be punished. But if you open your eyes at the hospital after the term of the declaration is over, I'm sorry, your taxpayers are grounded. Here, on behalf of our colleagues for the circuses, Mr. Secretary, we would like to ask that these circuses be taken as a result of a severe illness, as well as the birth of a female professional. At the same time, I assure you, no professional will take advantage of this because we expect our statements to be confirmed in our offices immediately. Again, one request from our Minister is that, just as a judicial reform has been done, a financial reform is given to all of our colleagues who have worked for 15 years as a member of the profession, green passports; again, to give us the right to intermediary in trade and tax courts; again, we expect the higher value of addition tax to be reduced to 8 percent, as in lawyers, or the introduction of free occupational financial advisors, due to this conflict between the tax and the income tax; again, we expect an action to be resolved immediately, due to our problems due to the collection and the dissolution. Before I finish my speech, I'd like to say a word from our leader, Dr. State Gardener: "The eyes of those who can't keep up with the forward moves in our case are always behind us, and they landed at the first station, and they fell in the first ditch. I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0164par0222	Mr. Utku, you asked for a promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0165par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, I visited Günzi district of Eskişehir. In the district, most public institutions, including the subsidiary, have either been served or have not been served. In the county, everyone's acting on their duties except the National Education Directorate. I have a trustee, he does his internship, he does his job; my governor's editor is a deputy; he doesn't have a manager; he doesn't have a manager; he walks with power of agriculture; he walks with power; he doesn't have a head of the population; he doesn't have a police department; he doesn't have a national property manager; he's got an officer who comes in from Eskişehir province one day a week. There are no imams in Ayvallı and the gazebo, one of the largest villages of our province; only a new imam has been appointed, and to perform his next assignment. There's a hospital, no obstetricians, and you have to go to Poland for births. My dear friends, the county I mentioned...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0166par0230	Here you go, Mr. Fendoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0167par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Our legendary, epic veterans, who have made history in the fight against terror, are the warriors who don't know the horrors of our national unity and unity. It is inevitable for everyone to act with sensitivity to the solution of our veterans' current problems, to take responsibility for the campaign of conscience. Our disability veterans and veterans with a 90 per cent or more disability rate are benefiting from the purchase of a disabled vehicle. This, however, leads to injustice among our veterans. The right to the WTV exemption granted to our families should also be recognised to our disability veterans as well as to the positive discrimination to be made, and should be applied to all military and duty clients regardless of the rate of disability. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0168par0238	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0169par0241	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Law Proposal to Change Customs Law 104. My dear lady friend, who spoke before me, in particular about the law before me, has made a very good statement, which means she's summing up matter. So I would rather have an X-ray taken of Turkey's point of origin than the Customs Law for the last 17 years. The economy was going to fly. They said they couldn't fly the economy, but they blew inflation. In our beautiful country, our identities, our view of the world may be different, but we want to live together in peace under our flag. Turkey is not well managed today. For 17 years, those who ruled Turkey alone left the country facing a ball of problems. Political power has become unresolved. In the referendum, the economy will fly if it comes out. Where we come from, the economy's on the line. With the EC PARTY coming to power in 2002, Turkey began to decline in many different areas on the international scale, unfortunately. When we evaluate the prestigious indexes that publish countries' rankings in economics, democracy, secularism, rule of law, fundamental rights and freedoms, foreign policy, human rights, gender equality and education every year, these data show where the EC PARTI has brought our country around the world. I couldn't count on the number one program, but a new economic program has been announced. Prices are rising after each program, unemployment is rising after each program, new increases after each program are coming to the door. The AKP can't manage the economy well, but it's a skill to brag about inflated, distorted figures. The economy is the people's table, the economy is the people's peace, but neither the onions nor the peace that our people are going to put on the table are left, unfortunately. Sadly, the AKP continues to burden the people in order to make someone rich. The AKP's economic policies continue to be rich, richer, poorer, poorer. The AKP economy is an inflated balloon created by false rhetoric, by false spring, and this balloon has already exploded. The real economy, the raises in our people's pockets, the unemployment of young people, the poverty of our citizens. The AKP, which created its supporters from the media to the economy everywhere, continued to ride on the backs of citizens with tax burdens and inflation, turning fuel stations, highways, bridge crossings into tax offices. We pay taxes on the bridge we didn't cross, the tunnel we didn't cross, the airport we didn't go to, the hospital we didn't go to, just to make AKP supporters rich. Given the situation our country has been in in for 17 years, confidence in our country's economy has left its place to be heard. The farmer can't get paid for the sweat of his forehead, the tradesman can't afford it, the industrialist, the exporter can't afford it, and it's a pity that our young people are afraid of what they're going to do with their future, how they're going to build a life. Unfortunately, the public's distrust of those who run the state is increasing day by day. Today, everyone, from industry to manufacturer, student to worker, farmer to journalist, academic, is concerned about the future. In a country where their constitutional freedom is restricted, people struggle in despair to save the day without debt, to bring home the bread. Look, on July 3, 2019, there is no increase in transition from the bridges of your own aide, Akit. There is an ad called "The Bridges of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror" and there will be no increase in transit fees on those highways by the end of the year. So, what happened to the truth? After the state-run highway and bridge crossing fees were said not to increase until the end of the year, they said it was time to hit the road again. The next day, they raised the bridges by 20%. From me to the citizen. Sit down, please, stay where you are. Don't go down the road, don't believe it. A hundred and ten days have passed, and the bridge has increased its highway crossings. In 2023, you want us to believe that we will be the world's largest economy. Well, do you really believe that? In the country where inflation is 9 per cent, you've given a 20 per cent increase to bridges, highways, postal fees; either the inflation you're talking about is not right, or you've really exaggerated at the increases you've made. If you look at the media, our economy's been booming, there's been growth. Why don't we see this growth? The only growth we see is at prices and raises. To illustrate: 60 percent to the electricity, 52 percent to the natural gas, 25% to the fuel, 60% to the drink, 60 percent to the cigarette -- and by the way, you've made all the evening chemists -- 32 per cent to the tea, 40 per cent to the sugar, 25 percent to the food and cleaning products, and there's only people on the road, and there's only those on the way, and I'm not talking about the motor transportation tax that's going to come up 22.5% from New Year. In September 2018, you announced inflation at 24.56 per cent, and in September 2019, you said 9.26 a year later. Well, sir, there's been a drop in inflation, and there's been a 15 percent drop in inflation. Are there any citizens outside the TİK who feel this decline? It's the only thing that's going down in TIC numbers. Excuse me, there's one person I shouldn't confuse; this is Army AKP Mayor Hilmi Bey, who noticed the fall. What did he do? The spokesman looked into it and found: "The salary of Hilmi Güler, the mayor of the army, raised a discussion of the $250,000 salary of Hilmi Güler. Responding to the massacre of workers in the military municipality, Mehmet Ozturk has issued a transcript of the salaries of AKP MP Hilmi Guler. The president, who was paid close to $250,000 from six different places, fired the workers who had a salary of $2,400 lira. Here, the president's salary is $14,000, the president's salary is $15,000, the ORBEL Board of Directors' salary is $10,000, the Turkish Board's membership salary is 20,000 euros, the salary of the Superonline Board of Directors is 10,000 euros, the salary of the President's Board of China is $20,000. Friends, a friend's advice to you: Don't make fun of our minds, stop making fun of citizens, stop living in wastefulness and luxury, stop importing everything, stop victimizing the manufacturer; otherwise, as in the last two elections, the citizen will give up on you, the AKP, and tell me, this is your inevitable end. My fellow lawmakers, see, the citizen pays $320 this year for the electricity he paid $200 last year, and this year he pays $450 for the gas he paid $100 last year. Despite all this, you're trying to convince people that inflation is still 9%. Of course, the world is jealous of us, and when you look in the mirror, some things look very different. The citizen's debt to banks and financial institutions increased to $540 billion, increased 22 billion more than last month, increased 22 billion a month. The truth is, our country is in debt. You've sold everything, you've borrowed the world's debt, the rate of debt has increased to 62 per cent, we owe 62 per cent of the national income. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, you've sunk the country into a complete debt, and unfortunately, you're not the only one on this sinking ship, we're the only 82 million citizens! That's why we're crying, our rebellion; we're going down together. It's almost time for this captain to change who sank the ship. [[Applause from CHP rows]] At this point, we can't solve the problem by sweeping under the carpet with daily dressing measures. There's a big swamp in the middle, and if you can't find a solution by killing the flies over the swamp, we need to dry this swamp together. A comprehensive economic programme to restore trust in the country must be put forth immediately. For a stronger Turkey, we need a new development programme that can produce education, law, publicist, social development, social justice and equality. I only solve the problem alone. To act with understanding is to throw the country off a cliff. You may not know everything, you may consult those who know, and together we can come up with a solution. One of the most important things to do is to rebuild the integrity system in the state. The Central Bank must be independent. Today, an independent decision cannot be made because of political authority. We need a primary production planning policy. We can only grow stronger by producing. Today Turkey has become a total consumer society. Today there's a Turkey that doesn't produce in agriculture, industry and in all areas. We must correct our foreign policy. We've stayed on the road that leads to zero problems, friends. Seventeen years of black painting created an aggressive foreign policy. There's a black painting, and the back of this black painting, unfortunately, is a failure. In 2002, when we had no problems with our neighbors, there was almost not a single country where we didn't have problems. We have to put the harvest aside. We've come from zero problems to just trouble in foreign policy. Why would a foreign citizen come to a country where rights and freedoms are averted? Why would the investor come? Why would he invest? We must end the economy of waste immediately. The government must begin saving before itself. The luxury of car rule in the public must be terminated first. If they're really determined to fix the economy, they should end the waste starting with the palace, or the dark days are waiting for us. Private planes must be sold. The government has no military, no police, no trust in them... and the task of special guards must be terminated. They've collected taxes, privatised the state's cement, sugar, tobacco, tobacco factories, all of the petrochemistry facilities, but they haven't been able to correct the economy again; they've cut Turkey out of production. They became importers of living animals, wheat, onions, potatoes, seeds. As for the problem of unemployment, which is our main concern, the AKP's power failed in its fight against unemployment, which left 82 million people in need of onion. Our jobless number, in its broad definition, exceeds 8 million. In the last year alone, the number of unemployed has increased by 1 million and 21,000. Inflation exploded, and the kitchens are on fire. Not enough, they turned Turkey into a semi-open prison; we can't talk about democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of speech in a country where journalists, writers, lawyers, lawmakers and innocent citizens are arrested. We have problems in many areas from education to agriculture, universities to foreign policy. The other important thing is that I said unemployment; yes, our young people are unemployed. Again, one of the four young people who want to work is unfortunately unable to find work in Turkey. According to TİK figures, the number of unemployed citizens increased by 1,11,000 people a year, reaching 4 million 157,000 people. However, the number of our real unemployed increased by 1,282,000 people a year to 7 million 622. What is remarkable, however, is that the annual increase in the number of official unemployed has occurred in over 1 million people every month for the past six months; notice this. Turkey did not even experience such a situation in the 2009 global crisis, when the economy narrowed down 4.7 per cent. On the other hand, 870,000 of our citizens have lost their jobs in the past year. The number of people who lost their jobs in agriculture in the last year was 307,000, and the number of people who lost their jobs in the industry was 123,000, while the number of people who lost their jobs in the construction industry in the same period was 538,000. The last 16 months in agriculture, the last 14 months in construction, and the industry has been losing jobs for the past six months. Seventeen years ago, there was no such unemployment, and 17 years ago, there was no such injustice. In 17 years, unfortunately, we've been here. Now, to the arrogant letter of the president of the United States in foreign policy and the next one, of course. You know, in the matter of Brother Brunson, President Erdogan came out and said that as long as this poor man is on this mission, he can't have this terrorist. He used these statements. Then the dollar went past 7,20 TL, and immediately after that, whatever happened, Brunson was immediately evacuated, packed, and the poor remained silent when he went to America. If Trump has recently done something that I consider crossing borders with my great and unprecedented wisdom, I will destroy the Turkish economy. I've done it before. He used his expressions. Those who ruled the country remained silent for a long time. Why doesn't the President of the United States speak as we used to? Why don't those who call out for it make no noise against the threat? Two weeks ago, you raised the world to admire the American Embassy's official Twitter account, and you didn't even show half that reaction. Here's a suggestion: close the figirlik, call the messenger, give him a note, cancel the passenger plane order, and suspend military contracts. Well, if you're so full of it, why don't you put it in practice? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, the late Bulent Ecevit, whom you criticised when it arrived, saw 10 times the pressure and closed down American bases in Operation Cyprus in 1974. Ecevit then wrote nationalism not on the street walls, but on the land of Cyprus, on the sea beds of the Aegean.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0170par0269	There is also one on the east side of Firat.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0169par0270	Dear friends, the Court has issued an audit report on the cost of 2018 of the Presidential Chamber. The start-up grant was $845m, adding to its expenses, using a budget of $1 billion,648m,678 million a year from public sources. Next year's daily expenditure is $8,638,000, monthly costs 259 million, 155,000 lira; the expenditure of Ashliah. Ashliye's one-day spending is equivalent to 4,276 minimum wage, which is the equivalent of 4,276 people for the month. I care about that a lot, guys. Another thing -- because I was getting close to the end of my talk -- was that the government had predicted that inflation would be 8.5% by the end of 2020, offering officers and civil servants 8 per cent, 4 per cent and 4 per cent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me a minute?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0171par0274	All right, have a minute.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0169par0275	But we see that Mr. President's salary has been raised to 81,250 liras a month, so he's got a raise of 7,000 liras a month. To put it simply, I can only say this as Tofik Fikret said. Eat, my lords, and eat until this table is full, and when it is full, eat until it is broken. My respects to all of you, my friends.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0171par0278	The talks for the groups are complete. Mr. Haydar Akar will speak first on behalf of the entire proposal. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0172par0282	Mr. President, we're discussing the proposed law on the amendments to Customs Law 4458. Before we get to him, Mr. AKP Group Deputy -- I was watching it on TV -- shouted out loud, saying export numbers as if he wanted to make his voice to the palace, but didn't say the import numbers. So I got the data from the Ministry of Commerce. If you'd like to shout at each other, let's discuss it together, and let's review what our imports and exports are all about, and I think it's very easy to see the state of the country that it's made of. I'm cutting because there are more important things. Now, let's see what we expected from this law. I joined the Industrial Commission for the first time, I'm a new member; when I went to the Commission, I think the parties will come, exporters will come, importers will come, customs advisors will come, we'll talk about it, what they want, and I thought we'd review it because we're talking about a amendment to a law with 248 clauses except temporary clauses. But I've learned that this bill was brought by three people, a fellow MP in the House, but three others are the people who organized it, cooked it, prepared it, gave it to you, signed it to the Commission, and brought it to the Commission. Two of these three are constantly mentioned in practices related to this law, as well as in the past. Again, we're talking about materials, and I looked at them, and who's there? There's the former Minister, there's the Customs Minister, there's the former Minister. Who's there? There's the Deputy Minister, the current Deputy Minister, and there are bureaucrats. I just asked them a question about a substance. The previous text of the matter and the current text have changed a word, and they have changed only one word; instead of an application, they have said "actions." I wondered, why did you put the word "actions" in place of this reference? I asked a question. But unfortunately, if Mr. Elitaş were here, he would have confirmed me...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0173par0286	I'm here... I'm here...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0172par0287	Oh, there he is, Mr. Elitaş. For ten minutes, fifteen minutes, Elitaş was unable to answer that question, and neither did I; and even the bureaucrats of the Commission, including the former Minister, Mr. Elitaş brushed - correct me if I say so wrong - you have not studied your course. It was so obvious that they weren't working, which was consistent with what I just said because someone had prepared it, cooked it, and brought it to the House. Now, in fact, this Customs Law must be changed from its foundation. Why? On May 1, 2016, the European Union -- and we are subject to the European Union's Customs Law, and we have a customs agreement -- made a change under the name of the customs code, and made it necessary for member states to comply until 31 December 2020. In fact, the Ministry, which didn't stop, worked on it; they've collected the sides of it that I've just counted, revised it 30 times, but they haven't been able to bring this Customs Law here. There were other things that happened in between, while he was being revised, unfortunately, they brought in 20 articles -- two of which is the executive clause, 18 of which -- a subject that only covers penalties and presented it to the Parliamentary Commission as an offer of law. Of course, none of the demands mentioned in this customs code are present in the law proposal we're discussing. Who has demands? There are demands of TİM (TİM) and TOBB (TİMB) here. You will change the European Union's demands in 2016. None of them are in it. But it's not the first time we've seen this scenario, my friends, it's the first time we've seen this scenario; it's on the same Customs Law in 2013. In the previous transactions carried out in customs, if there is a misdemeanor, if there is a fraud, if there is a fraud, if there is a fraud, there are fines in prison according to the Anti-Trafficking Act, while in 2013, economic punishment for economic crime was called a fine for the inside of the Customs Law.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0174par0291	Do you have Metin Ash?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0172par0292	There's that, there's that. They called it a fine, but they didn't stop, so this time they saved him. We know who survived, we know they're going to jail. Don't ask me that, in fact, if you look at them, they're very close to you, they're people who do some activities in ports and customs, they're even friends of yours who served as MPs; we know they're involved in the smuggling business of gold smuggling, I'm guessing, but if you're wondering, please look into them. Now, when you say economic punishment for economic crime, you say, "Is he going to pay his debts in prison, pay his fines in prison?" On the other hand, thousands of people who write checks today face prison sentences, and you don't call them economic punishment. Now, if you have a businessman to save, I know you'll do it from the check, but I think you care more about them because there are more smugglers to save, I think they're being brought in as a demand to get out of the fines. Now, when you examine the European Union's customs acquisitor, there is no punishment, but we see that people who have been pardoned for some reasons, such as ours, or the lack of information, face enormous sanctions in the European Union. There, they accept the form of a declaration, but they never let them do it again in the European Union. Now, if we're really going to make a change in Customs Law, here's the law you've revised 30 times, and I say we all work this out together in the Commission with common sense and solve the problems of all parties. There is another issue here: Those who passed this law, those who had sanctioned the Anti-Trafficking Law in the past, oppose the establishment of a customs consultant's room. In the interim 6th article of this law, the chamber can be established. The customs advisors have been unable to set up a room for 20 years. You know why they can't? That's because of the personal whims and personal disputes of the people who brought you this bill to the House. Now, customs consultants do 90% of the foreign trade. These people are bridges between public and private. They can be customs consultants through three years of internships and three separate exams, but like doctors, they have a room demand, just like the other rooms that have a relationship between the public and private, but even though it's in the law, the law doesn't apply and the room demands aren't met. There is another issue: the authorized position of responsibility, which is called the South Korean model. In Turkey, more than 500 companies make their customs transactions in their territory, while the factory is in the factory area, and the warehouse is in the storage area or in the industrial area; imports and exports go directly into their own warehouses, importing and exporting products directly from their own warehouses; it is not subject to any control. He's been checked out before, and they've given the firm control over what customs guards are supposed to do with a change of regulations. The firm can get any auditer from inside or outside -- there is no standard here -- without any criteria, such as this audit document. They put 20 percent here, and in 100 statements, they have to check 20 statements. Now, think about it, I own a business, I deal in imports and exports, I've made 100 statements, and I say check 20 statements from my 100 statements to the engineer, the technician, the mechanic, or the flat officer, or the white collar, that I employ for 3,000 liras. Now, fellas, are you kidding me? Is there a man who can do that? Is there a father-in-law in Turkey who would describe a negative statement or declare a negative statement against his own employer in over 82 million? I'm asking you, I don't think so. If you have such a father-in-law, you can make such laws, such regulations. Basically, if this law proposal becomes legal, we'll discuss the trafficking in Turkey, the injustice in Turkey, the negativeness we talk about every day at the customs gates. More like smuggling -- a friend of mine just gave another example of smoking -- is that you're going to make sure that the products produced by Europe are sold in the country for nothing, because of the illegal smoking in the country -- because of your tax dollars, and because of the indirect tax you put in the country -- are going to make sure that the products produced by Europe are sold in the country without any benefits, and it really means that I don't think it's right, and I give you all a lot of love.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0175par0301	On behalf of him, the second speaker is Mr. Ziya Altunyaldiz.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0176par0303	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I salute our great nation and all our citizens who are watching us on their screens. First, 85 of our friends and I offered a change in the Customs Law. The content of the proposal, its scope, is fully prepared to respond to needs. In fact, I've had a hard time understanding what the speaker just said. The people involved in foreign trade in the Republic of Turkey are people who are in commercial and testing operations in the Republic of Turkey. In fact, the owners are both members of either the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchange Association or the Turkish Exporters' Assembly. He said: "I wonder if the demands for change were the demands of the TOBB and the TIM." In his own mind, we'd appreciate it if he could tell us who he wants us to bring in changes, not business. Because we are here to answer the needs of the Republic of Turkey; we are here to ensure that the Republic of Turkey, as it was yesterday, will be developed as a country that produces, exports, creates value, creates prosperity. For him, you must provide for the needs of businesses and the merchants. With 85 of our friends, yes, as you said, we met with representatives of the TOBBB and TEMP, and we spoke one by one.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0177par0306	84 have no idea of any part of the proposal.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0176par0307	We've discussed the full public administration, and we've made a proposal today that will respond to needs, first to our Commission and then to the General Assembly's discretion. With the compliments of the General Assembly, I hope that this offer will be legalized, and I sincerely thank all our friends who support the offer. Dear friends, customs administrations were envisioned or evaluated more as a collection and conservation unit in the 1980s. At the point where we came in today, especially at the end of the 2000s, the supply chain became one of the main elements of security, one of the main profiles. Because the world went to a point that marked significant success in supply chains. I'd like to pass on to you a study by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Why is the supply chain so important? A commercial transaction means that about 30 sides, 40-50 documents, 200 different data and 60-70 per cent of all information and documents require at least one time confirmation. In addition, according to an OECD (OECD) study, 15 per cent of the costs in the world's trade constitute customs transactions. Here is the customs process, which, in fact, is more than just the area where things enter and exit, are directly affecting people's economic activities, decisions and whether they invest or not in the country, whether they see our country as a commercial centre in a global sense or not. In fact, not only that, dear friends; when we look at the data of the World Bank, 50 percent of the global market comes from foreign trade, between 50 per cent and 60 per cent of the global market. Then trade is the source of wealth and production. Trade is an attractive force. As you all know, if you can't market it, if you can't sell it, your production may not be worth much, so you have to integrate with production, supply, marketing, export. That's why we've continued our work with an understanding that modernizes customs, makes customs the quickest and easiest to operate, from yesterday to today, and that's what our understanding today is about, dear friends. Again, valuable friends, exports and imports were mentioned. Exports and import numbers are open to the public, so I don't think there's gonna be a lot of changes to remember it or not.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0178par0311	Tell your group's deputy president, your group's deputy president.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0176par0312	Look, Turkey has raised exports of $31 billion in the 2000s to $168 billion as of last year. Yeah, do we want to do more? We do. Can we do it? We'll do it. That's why we're modernizing customs regimes, so we're making customs more fast and easier to process, so we're making trading contractors a solution partner with customs, my dear friends. Let me tell you nine months of imports and exports so that I don't have to break you down: exports are 132.5 billion dollars, imports are 153.9 billion dollars, imports are going up. According to the previous period, imports have dropped 15.3 per cent, and exports have increased by 3 per cent, so there's no bread you can get out of here.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0178par0315	Yeah, tell that to the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0179par0316	There's no production, there's no production. There's no production in Turkey when imports are down.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0176par0317	Dear friends, now, the Ministry of Commerce is acting with an understanding of what it has done from yesterday to today, particularly with digitalization of customs administration and transactions, which, together with IT, is trying to put more and more on the system. What do I mean? If you create a system, you can watch it, if you create a system, if you create a system, you become transparent, if you create a system, you predict the consequences. So with the systems that we've uncovered from yesterday to today, we've implemented paper-free customs projects, and on the other hand, we've electronically transferred all foreign trade transactions. We've also brought confidence to the citizen, our business, by moving exports from our designated exporters you've criticised.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0178par0318	I'm not criticizing, I'm saying it's not controlled. I'm not criticizing.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0176par0319	You don't trust our businesses, but we trust our businesses to the fullest. But trust, control, trust will never rule out inspection. That's why we both trust and control. So we're digitizing the systems so we can see who's doing what through the system. Dear friends, with containers and port tracking systems, we can also see where the stuff is, how long it's waiting and how long it's lost at the processing point, or how long it's won. On the other hand, along with pre-existing customs, we've started and implemented all of the raw materials and half of the goods imported specifically for exports, to begin customs operations and to transfer them to the production sites from the moment they arrived. On the other hand, dear friends, with the proposal of the law, we've brought an approach that monitors exports more and prioritizes it, and we've tried to find the balance between punishment and verb, in particular. The goal of punishment, you know, is to reform, and the goal of punishment is to make practice better, so we've actually proportionate with punishment. So, especially as a result of the use of public power, we are obliged to pay interest in the return of missing or over-paid taxes to the business world. So instead of courting our citizens, we've decided to compromise, or rather compromise, to allow businesses to go to compromise before or after the appeal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear President, allow me to finish.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0180par0325	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0176par0326	Thank you. So, dear friends, today, like yesterday, Turkey continues its axis, which produces, exports, employs, grows with trade and production. And I thank you all now for your support in enforcing this bill, and I sincerely thank all my friends who contributed in preparation. Once again, I salute our coven.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0181par0331	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll continue from the stand.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0182par0332	I promise you, Mr. Haydar, it's late.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0181par0333	Okay. Thank you. I'd like to start with a question for our friend speaking on behalf of the AKP Group: there's a 10 per cent mention, and I'm very curious to know who they're talking about. I'd be happy if they'd answer that question. By removing the words I didn't say or the things I wanted to say from the context, it's like I'm against authorized people, against the establishment. What I wanted to say was that he was just out of control, and in order to get that control, I'm saying that the customs consultants you didn't give the definition of a room should be granted a licensed CPA status, and that should be checked out. We're talking 500 companies, Turkey's largest exporters and importers. I'm saying you need to control these things. Then let's set everything free, so no one checks anything. This can happen not only in imports or exports or customs, but also in all areas. Then there'll be no need for this House, so let's do it our way.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0183par0340	Mr. Lütfü, do you have a statement, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0184par0341	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0183par0342	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0184par0344	Mr. President, I've just been listening to the data on imports and exports, and since he's from the profession, I think he knows these things very well. There should be a reduction in import numbers. Production in Turkey is a production with a lot of imported input materials. I mean, we're not thrilled about the number of downfalls in this import, Congressman. The decline of import input figures is a sign that production has also fallen in Turkey. If you look at the number of productions in Turkey, it is possible that you will get this result. So in order to argue that the economy is good, you have to have no idea what these numbers are. You know where people's economy starts? It doesn't start in your imports or exports; it starts in the pot, ends in the pot, the economy of the citizen. Do you know what an onion increase is from 2018 to 2019? 326 percent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0183par0347	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0184par0348	That's 403 percent in eggplant, 120 percent in tomato. So our exports jumped, and the other one exploded. The pot was empty. The citizen is interested in this, and he never, ever listens to your numbers on the floor. If you can answer that, my friend, we've done this, this, this. If you're saying that the citizen will listen very well. But you're wrong if you think you're out there doing a flip on the numbers and blinding the citizen. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0183par0353	Members of parliament, the whole proposal will now be asked and answered for 20 minutes. Ten minutes of this time will be used for questions, while the remaining time will be used for answers. Umit Yilmaz Bey... Ayþe Sibel Ersoy, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0185par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week our suffering was great, and our brother, Ilteber Turan Yalçın, had his prayer today, and his place is in heaven. In October, the World Health Organization calls breast cancer the awareness bear year after year, it is necessary to create awareness of breast cancer and draw attention to the type of cancer that causes many deaths. Despite increasing cases of breast cancer in both the world and Turkey with awareness campaigns, early diagnosis shows that mortality rates have declined. At the beginning of unchangeable risk factors, there are reasons for being a woman, for getting old. I suggest that all our women from here take the necessary precautions against the disease and maintain control. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0186par0361	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0187par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. The government has no limit on the collection of what I can take from whom as the economy worsens. A raise after a raise is not enough, but 3 million, 300,000 people are said to have been blocked due to loans, taxes, and bonus debt, and e-accession is stated to have been seized without notification. Niğde is looking for a tradesman: they have blocked my existence because of my debt, but my wealth is greater than my debt, and they have tied my hands, he says. Because thousands of people's bonds are blocked for their check, the bond is protested and is blacklisted for failing to pay the check. Banks are a wall for victims. The government must address the problems caused by tax, credit, and bonus debt. A tradesman, a farmer, a student who owes a loan is an act with a debt clamp. Retired, disabled, laborer, officer is in trouble for a living. Small-income people are miserable with unemployed people. The arrangements for these matters must be made. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0188par0365	Mr. Unsal...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0189par0366	Thank you, Mayor. The situation of the economy continues to twist the back of the citizen. Pockets are empty, lockers are empty, safes are empty, but you're a citizen. There's a fire in the kitchen, everything's expensive. We're in winter, but natural gas and electric bills are not handled. While citizens have to save everything to get by, instead of reducing waste and waste in the state, it's a record-breaking record. Among the institutions that have been saving the presidency, there is a structure called emancipation funds, friends. This reserve grant, which was 7.3 billion for 2018, increased 8 times in the president's savings and increased to 56.6 billion dollars. When millions of people struggle with poverty, with living problems, that's not how resources are spent, if that's not what it's a big disease. For 17 years, poverty will end. Will it, unfortunately, be the end of the road?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0190par0369	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0191par0370	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear President, this question is actually for the Speaker of Parliament, but I mean, I'd appreciate it if you'd answer by proxy. After the parliamentary system, the Prime Minister's office was abolished, removed. I'm going to count the names of three members of the Prime Minister's office -- who have come to me allegedly -- who have been transferred from Prime Minister to Parliament to Parliament -- who have not been in Parliament until now, and who has even received overtime. From these people, Salim Gürbuz, Ali Ataseven, Ayhan Köseömür, Ali Ataseven, is said to have been deposited regularly in his account at $759 a.m. as an overtime fee, although he did not show up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Alas, it's a sin, and we'd be happy and happy to have this matter investigated. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0192par0376	Mr. Serker...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0193par0377	Thank you, Mr. President. Another budget time, and with every law you bring in, you won't be able to get enough money out of people's pockets, you know, and now there's budget law coming in, who knows what we're going to face. As Izmir MP, it is my duty to announce the voice of İzmir. Don't forget Izmir, which you've almost forgotten in the last few years, and you haven't heard his voice. Let it be known that whoever forgets Izmir (Izmir) has forgotten Turkey. İzmir's rooms, associations, industrialists, tradesmen, tourists, farmers, are expected to be heard. In Izmir, children are left outside the carry-on educational system. The industrialists can't find people. The port of İzmir is expected to increase its capacity. Ancient cities want to be brought to history and tourism; tourism businesses want to keep foreign tourists in İzmir, and they wait.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0192par0380	Mr. Ünver...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0194par0381	Our farmer, who was forced to sell his corn during the harvest at a price of $1,150, which was announced by the Ministry during the harvest, is facing a new challenge in the free market for around a thousand liras. A short time ago, it was announced that the TMO had made the necessary preparations and that all the corn produced would be taken, and now in Karaman and his districts, except for the Ayrancı warehouse, there was no TMO storage or licensed private warehouse, and therefore no corn purchases were made. Karaman's Farm Room announced a week ago that there were 350-400,000 tons of corn on the property. Its capacity is 40,000 tons, at the same distance as the Ayranian warehouse, which continues to buy, and the Hotamish licensed warehouse, 60km away. Will that capacity be enough to buy all the corn our farmer has? Yesterday, we'll buy all the corn from our farmer. Where are those who call it today? Where's the office, where's the farmer's black-day friend in the past, and where's the Department of Agriculture? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0192par0383	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0195par0384	Mr. President, the seven-year requirement for the direct transfer of senior officers who were added to the law, 6663 and 3269, which was adopted last year, has victimised many of our young people who have resigned from the army without having completed seven years. In particular, those who have the right to transfer to the state office on the basis of two years of military service on the day they left being an expert sergeant, under the scope of the law's prior date, have been completely scythed upon the rights of the sergeants of specialists. Expert sergeants who have lost their right to state office due to the law are not allowed to work because of the need for experience in the private sector. We're waiting for the Cabinet to listen to the voice of the victimized sergeants. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0192par0386	Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0196par0387	Thank you, Mr. President. The meeting our miners had with the Department of Energy has been resuscitated again. The ministry said that by the end of this year, the mine workers who submitted the petition would pay their compensation in the first six months of 2020, but this is not the solution our workers wanted. Our workers want to be paid their dues by the end of the year 2019, they don't want to hang around any longer, they don't want to be put on hold, they don't want installments and protocols, our workers are now waiting for a concrete and clear step. Please, pay our miners for their hard work and sweat.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0192par0389	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0197par0390	In 2018, the import of seeds is 178 million 833,000 liras, our exports are 151 million, 691,000 liras, but how much is paid for the types produced in our country after their seed imports? Again, do you have a recording system like this? In addition, the right of our disabled citizens to work is guaranteed by the Constitution and by law. The unemployment rate for disabled youths is 80 percent. In this context, what is the public employment quota for disabled citizens in 2019? What test score are you going to do on public staff purchases? When are you going to take the disabled public staff test? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0198par0393	Mr. Özer...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0199par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. Şükrü Cengiz, a 19-year-old patient with DMD, is being taken to Antalya Medical School with a respiratory complaint. Without an empty bed, he's being transferred to Special Antalya OFM Hospital, taken to intensive care. Her mother, Saadet Hanım, repeatedly tells the officials that her muscular son did not turn up in bed. Thirty days go by, praise gets served, and then it's bad. Allegedly, because he was unable to return for 30 days, the young man lying flat on his back sustained injuries to the feet, legs, hips, and backs of the head. These wounds are treated without local anesthesia, and the young man is unconscious. After that, Antalya is being treated at Ataturk Hospital. His mother is complaining to the D.A. and the Ministry of Health about a private hospital that wrongly tortured a disabled child. This application to our disabled citizen is not possible. This claim must be investigated immediately, and it must be investigated.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0198par0396	Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0200par0397	Mr. President, 2019 has been an unfortunate year for the Army and Giresun. Natural disasters, hails and floods have caused a serious loss to our farmers, beekeepers, and other agricultural workers. Mr. Finance Minister, I'm here to tell you that the postponement of farmers and beekeeper debts to Turkey's Agriculture Bank and the People's Bank would be a good thing for the two cities, and I thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0198par0399	Mr. Commission... SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGI COMMINATION PRESIDENT MUSTAFA LITAS (PLAY) Mr. President, I thank you. I haven't had the opportunity before, but first, we've learned that the son of Mr. Semikh Yalçın, Vice President of the National Movement Party, is deceased. I wish our young man God's mercy, my condolences to Semih Yalçın, and I wish to express that I share the sufferings of the entire National Movement Party community. On the other hand, 11 of our MPs asked questions. In these questions, we have asked technical friends if there are any questions about our law? We have yet to come up with a question. But some questions are surely followed by Ministry officials, government, cabinet officials, bureaucrats, who either send us the answers about them, or share them directly with the MPs. As a matter of fact, I'd like to express my thanks to the political party groups in the process of getting this proposal, and I'd like to express my thanks to the political group's deputy leaders. At the same time, our esteemed congresswoman friends, who are members of our Commission, have contributed greatly with constructive criticism. After the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, when the new year of legislature entered, let's make a subcommittee in our Commission on Wednesday, and call the parties on the main Commission on Thursday. We came to that conclusion within the framework of the meeting with our fellow commissioners. But on Wednesday, it is 14 p.m., in honor of the agreement made by the group's deputy leaders of the political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the same day, we were obliged to hold a subcommittee meeting at 00, 00, at 4:00 p.m. as the main meeting of the Commission. But I see now that the questions of our 10 fellow lawmakers are not about the text of the law, but about their criticism. This is an indication that our Commission's opposition with its power has really contributed to the fact that they have worked very hard on this law proposal. I'm here again to thank 26 Commissioners, including myself, with their opposition to power. I'd like to express that one of the most important features of this proposal is that our fellow signatories in the 1st and 2nd row come from the kitchen. The first signee, Ziya Bey, who just spoke, was an undersecretary, one of our best-known technocratic friends, who will reveal the expectations of NGOs and public opinion in the import regime, how the birth defects can be prevented. I'd like to say that the result of a work he's done with his previous experience to overcome the obstacles of importation and the people who are trading through it. And may I also say that our dear brother Ziya Altunyaldiz was at a meeting abroad. We will discuss it in the Commission on Thursday. When we announced it to him on Wednesday, when the group made this meeting on Wednesday as a result of the decision made by our acting presidents, Mr. Ziya unfortunately failed to make the meeting with the law proposal. Our fellow signator in the 2nd place has done his duty to the Ministry of Customs and Trade, Mr. Bkent Tüfenkci. The fact that he is a friend of ours, who, of his own free will, made the ministry, has signed the second signifies that the proposal of the law has been carefully studied. When we examine Mr. Haydar's opposition here, they say it's not about the information of 86 of our fellow MPs, but, you know, the kitchens of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are commissions. Our fellow commissioners... Mr. Haydar is our new Commissioner, and I congratulate him and wish him well. By the way, I'd like to welcome back our current Denizli MP Kazim Asslan Bey. He was a valued member of our commission, a friend of ours, who we enjoyed working with, whose criticism, his contributions, his constructive criticism, who we thought had contributed a great deal to us. We hope and hope that our long working friend, our dear friend, our dear brother Haydar Akar Bey will technically complete and replace him, but there is no way to replace Kazim Arslan. I cherish him again. God rest his soul. Dear friends, look, here, the Commission is the key. In the commission -- our other parliamentary friends read the law proposal and -- our dear friends who are preparing for it in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are looking for supporters. In fact, in this system, in the presidential system, that's where it's supposed to be.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0201par0409	Mayor, come to the questions. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMISION Answer the questions, we asked questions. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVILS, INFORMATION, AND TEKNOLOJI COMMINATION PRESIDENT OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF SANAYI, FOR example, one of the questions, said our friend, the Izmir MP, said. How can we forget Izmir (Izmir)? How can we forget Izmir (Izmir)? Izmir is where we put the enemy into the sea. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For example, a friend of ours brought up something about the mining business. I don't know if this is about Soma. What are you talking about? Is this about our friend, Mr. Beko?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0202par0415	Yeah. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVILS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMI
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0201par0417	Mr. President, I've told you the current imports, exports. I said, "Royalty, do you know how much the right to reformer's fee is being paid, do you have any information, registering systems?" SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI ENEGIES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMI REGENT OF THE COMMISSION If you'll excuse me, you're not talking to other friends about it. I didn't have the right to intervene, not the president or myself. Allow me to express my feelings here as Commissioner, and when it comes time to answer them. I haven't seen a member of the Republican People's Party group or any other party group that's uncomfortable with this conversation, not from the good PARTI, not from the National Party. Our friends, technical friends, will investigate the question you're asking about theroyalty, if it has anything to do with our matter. The question you're asking is not about the Customs Act. If you talk to your Group Vice President -- Mr. Haydar knows the business very well -- you'll be asked about issues under the Civil Code, and you'll be answered about him. And as a former Deputy Director of the Group, I feel I have the right to express it myself. If this is about Soma miners, I don't think Mr. Ahmet is here...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0203par0420	I'm here. I'm not talking about Mr. Vehbi, I'm not talking about Mr. Ahmet Akin. He's here, too.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0204par0423	I'm here. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TECHLOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT MUSTAFA LITAS, YES. During a meeting we had with them in Antalya, Ahmet Vehbi Bey called me on the phone -- thank you to him -- he said: "There is such a thing, can you help us with this matter?" We have two Manisa MPs, one is Mr. Erkan Akçay, deputy leader of the National Movement Party, one is Mr. Free Private, who, in the process, was a member of the group, while I was Deputy Director of the Group, and we were very cautious about that. They brought it up in the General Assembly. Our Group Deputy Director friends have said they'll look into it, they'll look into it. Look, my dear friends, the point is that since this is an individual right, you have friends who are lawyers, who don't say, "Don't pay," but because each of them is an individual application, which I shared with Vehbi Bey, which I shared with Ahmet Akin Bey -- let's speed up this part of the individual application. We believe they're right. We have stated that these compensations must be paid at once, and that we have expressed our intention in order to speed up the appeals and appeals, as the ministry believes they were right in the process. I'm guessing Ahmet Akin Bey has spoken to Mr. President and has shared the matter with Mr. President, and he approves me. I hope, I hope, that if this process, the legal process is expedited, those people, those brothers, our fellow miners who are despoiling jobs, they will receive severance and tip-off compensations as soon as possible. As lawmakers, we shouldn't be looking at this with our political identities. We feel that they are the rights of our fellow workers, and together we must strive to remove what is the legal obstacle to them. TKI has already paid off some of our friends, but the Court's audit... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGI COMMINATION
tbmm-2019-10-23sit02spe0205par0429	The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGI COMMINATION I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0205par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 104. The commission is in place. Mr. Sun, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0206par0007	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have learned with great regret that this morning, the fire was fired in a house in the village of Elmaldere. The father, who lived in the house, at 32 years old, and at the age of nine, and his children, Mohammed Nurkan, six years old, Mohammed Furkan, and 3 years old, were deeply grieved. To the deceased family members, I offer the grace of God, and my condolences to their relatives, and to all our fellow servants. I wish immediate healing to the mother, Jasmine Yasar, who was treated at the Butler Training and Research Hospital. May my Lord preserve our beloved nation from such sufferings. On the other hand, we have recently learned with regret that the son of Deputy President Semih Yalçın has lost his son. I ask the deceased for His mercy.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0207par0011	Mr. Beko...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0208par0013	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs couldn't hide the state of the citizen, not even the figures in the make-up of the TÜİK. According to 2018 income and living conditions research, 53 million citizens in our 80 million country are struggling to pay their housing costs, 48 million citizens. 47 million of our citizens can't afford a week away from home. 26 million citizens can't put a pot of meat on their table every two days. 24 million of our citizens are barely living, unable to provide for their basic human needs. 15 million of our citizens are having trouble warming up their homes during the cold winter, and unfortunately, they spend the winter under blankets. If 20 million people work below the hunger line, there's no way they can retire at 65. I'm afraid we have 8.5 million citizens who have graduated from college...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0207par0018	We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 10. Mr. Ahmet Kamil Erozan will speak on behalf of the Good PARTY Group on the first part of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Erozan.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0209par0023	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as expected of me, I will not discuss this proposal of the law. You can't expect anything else from me anyway, so I'm going to read what I know as I did in the past. For once, I want you to note that everything I have to say has to do with the political front of this Syrian crisis. I've drawn it three times, and I'd like to say it has something to do with his political front. You could say the military part was a success within the designated area. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of Defense announced last night that its purpose was achieved, that the M4 Road was reached, that the operation was successfully completed. We're all pleased with that, but in this operation, and in the beginning of this crisis, I wish our children, our martyrs, our mothers, and the veterans, our immediate healing. If you'll excuse me, I'll start with Trump's letter. You said, of course, we tore up Trump's letter. Maybe not, I'm not sure, but my curiosity is not about Trump's letter, but about the letter that you threw away, what did you do with it? Would you mind taking out a copy of the letter? If you can't get it out, maybe we will. So please dig through that garbage, there's another piece of paper in there, please find it. Why am I saying this? I'm afraid that's a shame about your scheme. But in this democracy, everything had to be transparent, and we expected you to share it with us. Why am I saying this? On October 14th, Mr. Hulusi Akar came to visit us, informed us of the military front of the business, although this letter, which came from October 9th, October 14th, did not mention such a letter to us. On October 16th, Mr. Sergeant appeared before the public -- this is the nation -- he told them all about the political front, he didn't mention the letter, he didn't mention the appendix. If you threw it away, why didn't Hulusi Akar or Mr. Sergeant come to us with such a dirty letter, we tore it up? Although maybe he'd get points from us in class. So the issues that you're hiding, whether you want to or not, cause serious questions about the effectiveness of the politics you're running. I made a few points after Mr. Sergeant gave his speech here. I'm going to read you a paragraph from the transcripts. I said, "When you came to the north curb of M4 Black Road, the operation was successful." Even if you say, "What will happen to the 65,000-strong PYD/YPG army on the south sidewalk of the road?" The political consequences of every action must also be considered. Even if you can't say it today, unfortunately, there will be other political facts that you'll have to accept, which the citizen will answer to you in the chest. That's what I'm asking. I'm asking you today. Those who wish can answer. My second sentence, from the same session: I wish you'd never used troops called the Syrian Army or the Syrian National Army. Do you know what the U.S. Secretary of Defense said yesterday? The Syrian National Army used by Turkey has committed war crimes, he said. He didn't finish the sentence there either. He said the Republic of Turkey is responsible for using this army. You may not have deserved it, but I told you I wish you hadn't. On that day, I remembered Ihsan Sabri Ragalangil. I said: "If you are invited to an important dinner in the Middle East, if your name is not on the guest list, your name may be on the menu!" I was referring to the meeting between Pence and Mr. Erdogan when I said this, but we had the same thing last night when Putin and Erdogan were at a meeting, and unfortunately, he was at dinner again, and you gave us the same situation once again. Again, what did I say? ▪ Russia didn't miss the opportunity, what did she do? He convinced the YPG/PYD, turned the security zone into a security pocket, unleashed Assad's forces on us, trying to force us into contact with Assad, as if by squeezing us into a pocket. In the coming days, we will see how well you have done. I said so, and I said so in the 16th. We saw this last night, and I'm not a fortune teller, and I'm not a fortune-teller, but it's coming at us in person, and you don't notice it; I can't blame you, of course, you're in the legislature here, where there's an executive body that has to be dealt with. I'm going to move on to another side of the business, and again, I said on the 16th: "Because our heads are back again, we are sure that tomorrow will return as we have heard from power today. " How did we get back? One night with Russia, one evening with America... I don't know what we're playing, we couldn't figure out the name of this game. Again, again, I said, "If we had done the opposite of what the AK PARTY has done so far, it would have already been solved." I mean, I've just said, it's a citizen who's going to be asking for his bill." I said, "There's no need to wait until the polls," but the citizen on the street asks us: "Why did we do this?" You're not going to give us the answer, you're going to give us the power, you're going to give us the answer. Again, in this agreement of last night, I say, "I agree," but there's another understanding in it, the Adana Covenant. Everyone refers to the Adana Covenant, which has a large amount of money, and forgets that the text we call the Adana Covenant is related to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK); one. Two, one-sided. Three, you didn't sign this, you signed another power, you signed the treaty in 2010. I told you then and again: the more you say the Covenant to Adana, the more he puts the main thing in front of you, the more he says, "The Covenant of Adana was the key to another world, another problem, so come with you, please, let us go through the text signed by Mr. Davutoglu and Mr. President. Didn't you look at the text? Everyone read the text last night, so let me not go into too many details, and I'll point out a few points. Putin and Mr. Erdogan spoke before his statement. You've never heard the word "YPG" out of Putin's mouth, you've never heard the word "YPG" as a terrorist, he said "YPG" as a terrorist, he didn't say anything else, but he never said "YPG" as a terrorist. Where's the Separatist movement? It's in the Basque region, it's in the Catalan region; there's no terrorism there. He put us in that position last night. I'm sorry, some of you are talking about an ambitious victory, and I accept the military victory, you're talking about a political victory, but it's not a political victory. You, unfortunately, tell us that we broke the game. You're being tricked, and I don't know if you realize that you're politically dressed and tied up today. I share my observations with you. We were all here last night, Mr. Putin and Mr. Erdogan were in there negotiating to solve this problem and at the same time the Russian Federation Deputy Foreign Minister made a statement in Moscow. What did he say? We believe that Operation Peace Fountain, which was launched by Turkey in northeast Syria, has violated the territorial integrity of Syria. So you're talking to a man inside, he's saying something different in Moscow, he's not saying anything different, he's doing what he's being given. I mean, there's apple sugar on one side, there's a stick on the other. We'd expect you to feel that. I'd like to mention one last thing. All of this is unfortunately a variety of elements of power's failure in the field of foreign policy or diplomacy. We, of course, as the opposition, are trying to inform you as we speak on this stand -- perhaps you can't see, read -- while we're trying to inform the person on the street, and in that information, we established a diplomacy school as a party. Good news, we'll take those who don't have a degree. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0210par0036	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Baki Simsek will speak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0211par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group in the year 2019, year of the Third Amendment to Customs Law 104. I hereby salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Grand Assembly. The proposal organises the implementation of the customs law's procedures and penalties on administrative fines based on the economic conditions of today, the improvement of administrative fines for importers and exporters to reduce the financial burden of importers and exporters, the extension of the effective regret mechanism for those who violate customs legislation without being detected by the administration, and the reduction of the fines of those within this scope, and the removal of customs administration's taxes by 20 per cent from customs procedures. We view the whole law as a nationalist movement party. Of course, I'd like to share with you some of the problems that occur in practice, especially in exports and imports. In the 1990s, Mersin was declared a free zone, and Antalya was declared a tourist zone. But in the free zone, in a region where free trade can normally be done, there's been no change in the sense that it's wanted. Mersin faces many problems with the free zone. First of all, many companies who trade in the free zone have been allowed to stay on the shoreline and have many problems with their licenses, the fact that many of the operators here have property, and that they can't use them in mortgages, guarantees, and at the same time many problems in trade. In recent years, what we've brought up from this podium is particularly about the fuel industry, the automation system and the camera system in the main distributors' warehouses, because it wasn't built in the main distribution firms, even though it was built years ago. Resolved the part about the fuel. However, the same problem with the LPG is currently ongoing in the fuel industry. Main distribution companies do not have an automation system or camera system for the LPG. Despite being in distributors, it can also be used negatively by people who are unfairly profitable, trafficking in some way, or not paying their taxes properly, harming the state. You can see it when you're traveling through any oil station. Between oil stations, the exit is normally in the same place. It has to come out of the ATASH, or Izmir, Alayaka, in different places, in the same conditions, but when an official institution tenders, we see that some distribution companies can bid on prices at much lower than the price of fuel output in ATASH. The industry where the biggest smuggling is fuel, and these are no longer done with horses, donkeys as in the past, which are done by ships or by smuggling through oil pipelines in some way. The effective struggle with this is... because the industry that really pays the most unfairly is the fuel industry. Of course, we also have serious problems with the licenses of the fuel stations. Get out of Ankara, until Adana, you're facing an oil station one step at a time. Normally, there's supposed to be an oil station within a mile of the city, 10 kilometers from the city, but how come the trade county departments are licensed to oil stations 100 meters, 200 meters apart? Some from the past, we call it an acquish, but we're still seeing a lot of new oil stations open. The audit must be increased. Again, there are also serious difficulties in exporting from Mersin, Antalya, to Iraq. Iraq has its own customs tax, its own way of putting a ban on it. At certain times, Turkey's age of vegetables in particular puts up to $300 per ton of customs tax on fruit exports, but the entry of the same product from Iran is customs-free, and indirectly, products from other Turkish Republics or other countries can enter Iraq in the same way. Surely the ministry must fight to resolve these problems in imports and exports by making the necessary talks about trade with Iraq -- because most of exports in our region are based on Iraq. Customs taxes removed at certain times in imports, as in garlic imports, sometimes some firms can stay alert and go from here and create the necessary infrastructure on the day the law comes out and place trucks on our borders. There's always a flow of information, information leaks, and some people are able to make unfair profits because of this distress in Turkey. In previous years, DFI support for exports from our region has been removed, unfortunately. The DFI support given to the exporter for up to $100 per ton, then $200, then $100, then $50, is now unknown, there is no DFI support. So, especially in the citrus industry, this was a situation that was in the best interest of exporters and producers. There's a serious expectation at this point, and there's a serious problem. And there must be certain arrangements for that. Of course, in the final part of my talk, I would like to share with you a major problem in Mersin. Of course, the election was won by Mersin Metropolitan Municipality Republican People's Party. In the course of the election, we all have the obligation to respect these consequences, but we will now defend the rights of the workers to the city of Mersin, to the workers of the city, to the workers of the city, to the rights of the workers; and we will not lay down any man who is in charge of his bread, or his work. We promise honor, honor. The city, which received votes from the nation, unfortunately, is now hundreds -- these numbers are expressed by hundreds -- is firing our people today, putting them out of their way. And the way he lets people go is that they first say: "Your performance is low." They find a new device, they measure the performance of people. They investigate people who have never eaten a report in their life, who are not late for work, who are on duty every day, and then one day later, you've been terminated with a cell phone message. You have been laid off without compensation. There is a notice being made. Of course, these people are going to trial, the trial process will probably take months, but since the trial process is going on, there's no way they can get another job, there's no way they can get another job. Hundreds of people, some of them, are Anamur I'm calling from here to Mr. Home Secretary and the Minister of Labor. These workers are expected to be sent to Mersin to end the massacre of workers in Mersin. Do they really lack performance, or do they not come to work, or do they have other problems? They are being investigated for a decision and they are expected to be brought back to these people's jobs immediately -- not to late justice, not to justice -- as soon as possible. Yeah, well, with the subcontractor's law, the law was supposed to protect the rights of these workers, but unfortunately, right now, the mayor is taking advantage of the gap in the law, and without anyone being asked anything, a cell phone message puts people out of business. I demand that all political parties from here be with every worker in Mersin, who struggles for bread -- no politics of bread.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0212par0053	Are there fewer endings with the KHK?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0211par0054	We're not saying this for politics. There are other CHP municipalities, and there are places where we don't see the same practice, but see this drama in Mersin. Yesterday it happened like this, the next day it happened like this, and the last town hall did it, and whoever did it was wrong. No one can explain playing with the bread of a man who's paid 2,000 lira. There's no way anyone can explain this to the people of Mersin or the Turkish people. I demand that the rights of these workers be maintained. Sometimes we can also see examples of: they're employed during the MHP period, they're removed politically -- there's no other reason -- and then they're investigated, and maybe they're not MHP, but they're involved during the MHP period, but they're then brought in from CHP, and they're able to go back to what they were doing a week ago in the same municipality. They're all documented by us. There's chips, there's mobbing, there's pressure, there's labor. I'm waiting for all of you to support me, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0213par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0214par0059	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0213par0062	Mr. President, the issue is sensitive, the issue is as sensitive as the fact that 15 or 20 people are being fired routinely a week at the Silifke Municipality, which the MPP is receiving. It's as sensitive as the issue of the MHP City Hall at Manisa Metropolitan Municipality, which drives 1,400 people from their homes to two-and-a-half hours, implements a mobbing, forces them to resign, and sacks all of them. In 2014, when MHP received Mersin Metropolitan Municipality, you were hired in the previous term. There are discharges from every party, political opinion, performance assessment, and past-term ATM officers from tens of thousands of employees of Mersin Metropolitan Municipality, as sensitive as the situation of 2,600 workers who were fired.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0214par0064	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0213par0065	Now, we're making an open offer to my very dear Regent -- our human relationships are good with him -- obviously: If the National Movement Party approves a group proposal tomorrow, and let's investigate with the Parliament's hands the layoffs from municipalities all over Turkey. Let's go to Manisa Grandville, where I'm a victim. Let's hear 1,400 people cry. Let's go to Mersin, where the mayor of MHP is from, where the scream comes from. (CHP cheers) Let Parliament handle this. Otherwise it's raining, and 15 in Silifke are throwing every week, and you tell Manisa Grand City. Look, you don't get any results from me, you don't get black politics. We insist: "Come, you don't bring the motion -- you don't bring the group proposal, you don't speak in group suggestions -- I will speak at your group proposal, unconditional support. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll have Congress look into it tomorrow.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0215par0070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0216par0071	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0215par0073	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, of course, the workers who were laid off in Turkey after the March 31st municipal elections, each party has made complaints about this with a sense of responsibility for their own municipality or for the workers who were removed after the loss of a municipality, and at this point we have expressed these complaints. Mr. Mersin MP Baki Simsek Bey is referring to events at Mersin Metropolitan Municipality. At this point, without any political party distinction, he has expressed that this issue is an important challenge, and I don't think anyone will object to that. Everyone knows the financial difficulties that the municipalities are facing. In this regard, there is no possibility that a single voice could be mentioned in any city in Turkey, if there are situations in which an ATM officer or in which such work is being done. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You guys did some evaluations on the last Manisa. That's what we've learned in Manisa, that there are some changes in places, but you said that this could be a situation for municipal workers in Manisa, with no political party distinctions here. But we're saying that this happened without any political party distinctions, and our Congressman has made such a complaint about Mersin. In this regard, each political party makes such a statement regarding the municipality at its own level of responsibility, which is worth investigating, worth being interested in, should be dealt with and avoid some possible injustices. Otherwise, under normal circumstances, of course, we already have sufficient regulations in our Employment Law in connection with these wrongfully laid off workers.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0217par0079	Pack it up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0215par0080	According to this, they've also started the extradition process legally, and all of the people who've been removed are related to this, and the law will rule. So it will be considered whether these dissolutions are a valid annulment, if they're a right-doing annulment, but the heart wants the political mechanism to develop certain possibilities in the early years without the need for the law. All we're saying is we're saying it, we're saying it, we're asking it, we're asking it. I think it's our duty to get the attention of our municipalities at this point. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0217par0082	Mr. Yılim is asking us for a letter from Us as the Servant Congressman. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0218par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm afraid it's Bane's headquarters, Appledere District 1. A painful incident took place on Çelikhan Street. Almost an entire family burned to death. Bornt Yasar, 32, 9 years old Nurkan, 6 years old Furkan, and our three - year - old Nur daughter, unfortunately, died in an undetermined fire. 27-year-old mother Jasmine Yasar is currently in intensive care in our state hospital. I wish the mother a speedy recovery first. May God have mercy on those who die, my condolences to your relatives, to the whole family. We share their pain, and I wish your mother's health would be better for the whole family as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0219par0091	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akın will speak. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0220par0094	Mr. President, I've been promised by the law that envisions amendments to the current Customs Law. I salute your high council. Members of parliament, Minister of Commerce Mr. Rusar Pekcan announced in September that our exports took place at $15 billion 220 million and we broke the highest September export record in the history of the republic. Now, dear friends, it's a record, it's good news, we're used to it now, but under record or good news, there's always some misinformation or disaster. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary here, but we can't see the minister here in this new system, it's very difficult for us to reach the minister, the ruling MPs can't, but I'll call from here right now so that the Assembly can hear the voice of the nation and answer these questions. Now, while calculating export numbers, what criteria are based on? That's question one. Second: Antrepo declaration and transit trade declaration are included in exports? Third, domestic sales are added to export numbers? The goods delivered to the State Department of Defense are considered exports? How and what criteria do you use customs codes in your statistical data? How much of our exports are from imports? For example, how and how is this reflected in export numbers, if you edit them with bolts and nuts that you import and send them abroad again? What needs to be noted, dear friends, is how much of the raw material and input of the goods produced for an export transaction is imported from abroad. Is the introduction of cheap labor effective in export numbers? For example, are energy used in production in the countries that generate energy the same as expense pens in energy-dependent countries? The answers to these questions will show us how accurate or how accurate the export numbers are -- in the public language -- are. (CHEERING) So we're waiting for those answers from Mr. Secretary. Also, speaking of energy, I'd like to talk about a few things right now. Dear friends, look, we are an incredibly dependent country in energy. In 2002, when we were 67 percent addicts, we are now 77 percent addicts. So while the whole world struggles to reduce its addiction, we have the opposite revision. We'll make it cheap. You say, it's getting expensive. We'll nationalize it. You say, it's alienating. You even told this nation about nuclear being national and domestic. Dear friends, even the bolts of nuclear power plants are not native. For God's sake, what I'm asking you to do for him -- and it's not cheap -- you guarantee buying for $12.35, and then you say, "This electricity is going to be cheap, it's going to be national, it's going to be domestic." I mean, it's basically making fun of people's minds here. We have the graces of the good God; we have the renewable energy, we have the wind, we have the sun. God didn't spare us. Let's support this. In homes, in factories, people will have to pay for the energy they consume. Mr. President, our Commissioner is being careful and sensitive about this matter. I hope, and I expect, that this will be increased further in the future, and this will become more common. Now, yesterday, we made an offer for natural gas here, and the bottom line was that 100 lira would pay 75 lira a month to pay for natural gas. But unfortunately, both our friends from the National Movement Party and the AK PARTY have not approved. Now, dear friends, while we're fighting for the nation, lowering taxes or doing favors for others, you've seen a lot of time here, lowering people's $100 bill for $25. That's why I'm reporting you from here to our nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Second, now, in two years, you've raised 126 percent to industry, agricultural watering, trade houses, electricity - both shameful and sinful. You guys, go around the industrialists, you're walking around, and they're definitely telling you. They can't pay their debts, they can't pay their bills. Mr. Secretary's leaving, he says we did it. What is it? New Economy Plan. And that's a complete deception. It says: "Inflation has landed in one household. For God's sake, inflation has fallen." You say, "You explain numbers to yourself, you give them a raise all the time." Take the bag, go out to the market, see inflation; it's that simple. Those inflation numbers you're throwing and holding are never accurate. In just one year, electricity has increased by nearly 70 percent, natural gas by 55 percent, food products by 50 percent, fuel by 35 percent. He can't produce an industrialist, but you're saying inflation has fallen. Dear friends, we all know that as citizens of the Turkish state, we're all sons, we're with our tradesmen, but without Esnaf, we've learned the phrase, we've been taught this. The tradesman is a mess right now. We travel our tradesmen all the time. I myself see in Balıkesir, you see in your own provinces; literally, the shop closes its doors. Look, in the first nine months of this year, 80,769 businesses have been closed. Now put yourself in this shop. You come out on television with pink paintings, no pink paintings, sir, no YEP. These are the ones, but my citizen in Balıkesir is crying blood. What about him? Your YEP, or your false reports, inflation, deception, are not filling my fellow citizens' nets. So you need to be there for these people, for our people. Every chance you get, you say: "We are with the farmer. " You are with him during election times. We're literally always with our farmer, our shopkeeper, clearly. (CHEERING) Look, we're walking the farmers, dear friends. Balıkesir is just an example. Our villages are empty. The people there are longing for their grandchildren, only the elderly are left; they can't produce, they can't make their milk, they're not worth anything. All he does is go out and borrow money. So we took care of the farmer. Let's not read the story. But let's actually be united, let's be together -- look, all the parties here together -- fight like lions to make the farmer the peasant, the peasant the master of the nation. There's no politics on the farmer's bread. If they win, we'll grow up together. Look, just this, friends: In 2008, there were 1,17,000 farmers, and in 2018 there were 697 thousand farmers. Now think for God's sake, why did these people quit? Man who breeds is the victor, and he who earns, he shall win from the earth. 40%, you've finished the farmer. Right now, 40 percent of farming has dropped. This data is all your own data, the data that's been published. That's where we're getting it, and I'll tell you right on top of it. The simplest is diesel. In 2002, my brother, the farmer in Balıkesir, received the diesel for $1.9. What's he doing now? Look, $6.50. Indeed, in this country, trades, farms, industry, production, magic, magic, magic in its true sense. It's all coming down on you; our farmer can't produce it, he can't sell it, he can't sell it, he can't afford it, and what do they do? Here, sir, records, sir, good news, good economies, one-digit inflation... Dear friends, what I'm asking you to do is, clearly, I'm telling you, the AK PARTY has been cut off from the nation. That's what we see in the field. So why don't you guys warm up and go for a walk? Look, livestock is dead, farming's over, the trade's over, the feeder can't win, the milkmaker can't win, he's rioting. What's he doing? He can't produce farmers, he can't shut down trades, he can't produce industry; the worker, the officer, the pensioner, he's miserable. We raised the worker, the officer, the pension by 15 percent... they're delusional. They say: "There is no such thing. " But you glue up 70 percent of the increase to those brothers. What's going to happen now? How are these people supposed to do magic and afford it? Furthermore, according to you, according to the EC PARTY, the economy will grow by 5% each year. Friends, with so much misery, with so much economic difficulty, for God's sake, you can't run this country with a dick. Let me be clear, what's said about you is that the tradesman, the artist, he's a passenger, Abbas, he won't stop. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0221par0120	The talks for the groups are complete. Mr. Cetin Osman Budak will speak first on behalf of the first part of the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0222par0124	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We had a long talk today about customs, but there wasn't much to do with customs, and there wasn't much to do with customs. As a result, the current legislation will be completely reset on 31 December 2020. I want to understand why this law came today, and I expect you to explain it, and I'm listening very carefully, but I don't understand anything. Just a few changes, and with that change, what are we reducing here? Punishments. We don't know whose punishment we're reducing. I mean, it's like a delivery to an address, and that's the whole agenda of the House today. But in the coming months, we're going to talk about these customs regulations. We know there's a lot of work coming into the ministries, especially the Ministry of Commerce, and we don't know the details. He's been here 30 times, gone 30 times, and no one knows what preparation is. Now, there are so many serious problems in customs. For example, iron exports are performed in exports of fruits and vegetables. It is so slow that last month the customs are held for four or five days at the Edirne Customs Gate -- one container, one truck of goods -- from Balıkesir last month -- the condition of the farmer -- mentioned by our MP just now. I'm burned, Allah is looking for us; we're trying to reach someone, an officer; we can't reach the authority; after a week and ten days there, the product is garbage. There have been so many complaints from my constituency, Antalya, that there have been enormous problems with Tangalina, oranges, tomato exports because of the incredibly slow processing of customs. While we should be discussing these things, we're working on a reduction of three or five sentences, a reduction of the sentence; it's impossible to understand. Now, of course, when you say "gümrük" you need to highlight a number of foreign trade issues. Our Konya MP, who was just speaking about foreign trade, was an undersecretary of the past period, he is a bureaucrat, he is well aware of the issues, he knows how low the increase in exports, the increase in exports is when it's been looked at over the past few years; there has been an increase of about 3 per cent. Our Balıkesir MP just asked a series of questions about these export increases, and there are no answers to those questions. Import's down 17 percent. We turn around, we look at all the industries, from every sector to industry stocks, the stocks have melted, so our industrial companies have continued to sell until they've had their stocks reduced to zero. Now, starting next month, starting from next month, he's going to import for exports, so between goods, machinery, capital investment, he's going to import them so he can export them because we're addicted to imports. In particular, I'd like to say that our export numbers are around $1.6-1.7 per kilogram, so we don't have high-tech exports. We're almost importing all of this, and those tiny differences there, they're worth so much money that we're a foreign currency poor country. Now, foreign investors don't come to Turkey, foreign investors don't come to Turkey to invest directly, hot money doesn't come to Turkey, so interest is too high, and interest is not invested with these interest rates. Oh, yeah? As a matter of fact, is it? No, the truth is, people don't feel safe. The economy is something that's very skittish, and so is the investor, and so is the money, and it's very skittish, and when you touch it, it flies away. Look, in the coming days, the IMF and the World Bank have a repeat meeting every year. It happens in the second half of October, and in the second half of October, all countries that are part of the world join in at the level of the economy minister and at the level of the central bank. Turkey has been joining people at this level for more than 50 years. This year, neither our Finance Minister goes to America, Washington, nor our President of the Central Bank. The president of the Central Bank, former Vice President of the People's Bank. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our current Minister, Berat Colonel, is Minister of Finance in charge of state banks. We've been following the press lately, wondering why these ministers aren't going to Washington. So why doesn't the United States of America, Washington, when we need so much investment, go to our Finance Minister and the President of the Central Bank? Look, it's been represented at this level for 50 years, Turkey. What does it matter? All the investors in the world come there, they're looking for investments, governments go there, where they tell the 2020 perspectives of their own country, 2021 perspectives, investments, investors. But unfortunately, even though we're members of the IMF and the World Bank this year, we're not represented there. When this country needs so much investment, when we have about 8 million unemployed, I'm wondering: Why don't we join, why don't we join, what level of participation did we have there? I'm waiting for you to answer for me. Thank you for listening. My respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0223par0136	The second speaker on behalf of Mr. Huseyin Örs.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0224par0137	We're not taking advantage of our rights, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0223par0138	There is no demand for an answer. There are demands of words according to 60. Mr. Gaytancioğlu... Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0225par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the 211 Turkish Armed Forces Civil Service Act, the majors are subject to the same group and status as the other senior officers, the colonels and colonels, but the authorities are unable to receive compensation, and they carry out the same duties as the colonel and commander-in-chief, and their authorities are battalion fleet commanders. This has caused some disquiet among majors in the same group and status, causing serious financial problems. It is necessary for our commanders to take part in the 5th severance of the Armed Forces Act, in order to ensure that the salary hierarchy of Turkish Armed Forces is more equitable. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0226par0147	Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0227par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Trade Minister and Labour Minister: Do you have a study in which you can't repay your debt in time and can't get a loan due to the blacklist problem to give us a record pardon for our tradesmen and artists? Do you have a premium debt to take advantage of health care, a study to resolve the time issue? Do you have a job in order to be given the right to a back-to-back service period for our tradesmen who are unaware of or have no means to pay back the debt? Given the shortness of the working hours and the rate of bankruptcy of the tradesmen and artists, do you have a study to make sure that the number of premiums paid by 4/A/A/A-insurancers is equal to the number of days? Do you have a study in which you can't open the workplace on the days of their sickness, and you can't afford to give out temporary employment allowances for the time when our tradesmen and artists are resting? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0228par0156	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0229par0158	Mr. President, our heads of agricultural rooms in Adana, Saudi Arabia, have announced that after the murder of journalist Cemal Spoonçı who was killed at the Istanbul consulate, the narcissist sent from Adana to wait for 15 days at the customs gate due to analysis. Our head of the room, in analysis of the normal import customs labs, in which the Saudi Arabia administration slows down after the murder of Cemal Spoonçı, sends Turkish products to Riyad. Because of the civil war in Syria, the narcissistic products sent by Hatay on ships from the port of Alexander reach the Port of Cide Harbor in ten or fifteen days. Adding that fifteen-day analysis period, the total is a month's wait, and there's a loss of fire. Containers full of products are currently on hold. Analyses in citrus products were being sent to Turkey in 2017 to Saudi Arabia, and now the manufacturer is being devastated? Does the government have a plan to solve this problem, will you make any attempt?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0228par0159	Mr. Serker...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0230par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you: The 18th article of the Law Proposal for Changes in the Customs Law that we have discussed opens the way for all customs workers, especially customs guards, to continue carrying weapons that already exist in their retirement lives. I'd like to ask you how accurate it would be for customs officials to have weapons in a place like Customs, although, in some cases, it's normal to have them. As it is a serious problem in our country, don't you think it will cause abuse for those who have left their state duties and returned to civilian life?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0228par0163	You can't...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0231par0165	Mr. President, a biomass power plant and waste-burning plant is planned at the location of Bodac village, a natural wonder in the district of Gökçebey, Zonguldak Province. As is known in biomass power plants, all kinds of waste -- chicken manure, sewage waste, free waste, industrial waste, car tires -- is being burned into the ground, air, and water. As Zonguldak people, we will not allow a natural paradise like Gökçebey County to be turned into an imported waste hell.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0228par0166	Mr. Erel...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0232par0168	Mr. President, the number of middle-school-educated nurses, especially over 120,000, is impatiently expected to be appointed for public personnel. The Health Department hasn't made any statement about it. Again, our teachers who look forward to appointing nearly 700,000 are also demanding and demanding that the number of appointments be at least 100,000. I'm passing on wishes and demands of these young people to the concerned ministers here. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0233par0172	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0234par0174	Mr. President, there's been a huge injustice to the rights of salary and equity among the workers who do the same work under the House's roof. There is a serious pay difference among workers with the same staff and 4/B/B as those who have been permanently employed from subcontractors, as well as in matters such as food, transportation, clothing. For example, regular workers who have already been paid less than their workmates pay about twice as much for the same meal. It is also important and priority to improve the quality of business clothes and business shoes for all of our workers, both the routine of the House and all of ours, who have been working all day long, doing all of our requests with a smile. I would like to call on the Speakership to correct the rights and working conditions of our workers with an equal wage for equal employment.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0235par0180	Interviews on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on the first article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. Article 52 of Customs Law No. 4458, dated 1-27/10/999, is redesigned as follows. Articles 41 to 50 are applied to non-free movement of objects from one place to another in the Turkish Customs Area, which is provided to the customs administration as part of a transit regime. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Yasin Ozturk İbrahim Halil Oral Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ankara MP İbrahim Halil Oral wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0236par0197	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on the 1st Amendment to Customs Law 104. I salute your high council. Congressmans, success in international relations means continuing the victories in the square behind the desk. The agreements reached with the United States and Russia are a win to clear the area of our first goal in Operation Fountain of Peace, but this process has been a scene of diplomaticly unacceptable events. While we praised our children, our grandchildren, we told them that Ottoman sadrazam was equal to the Archduke of Austria. With this diplomatic superiority, we'd have the pride of being a great state. Now, how do we explain to our children that the vice president and the president of the United States are sitting equally at the head of a table? Yesterday, Israel and the lower seat crisis were resolved with apology after it was too late. How will it be solved now? Mr. President, we'll see about that disgusting letter later. What kind of work is that? In domestic politics, there's not a single word of this to be said to our President, there's no treason, there's nothing to be said to be done. On the one hand, if there is success, the status of equality in Trump's words, his letter, and the photo of understanding is a diplomatic defeat. You must read and learn the political stance of Ismet Pasha, who did not sit in the low chair shown to him as he entered the Lausanne talks and did not start the negotiations until he had rectified the insult. Precious MPs, in Istanbul, in the face of millions, the cultural and historical values of our nation, such as Haydarpaşa and Sirkeci, are officially being taken in a row. The tender was launched for the use of the station in cultural and art activities. First, the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality was not asked to tender. Mr. Imamoglu tried to make the tender and succeeded. This time, the companies of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality were not invited to negotiate. Now, Mr. Imamoglu is taking the matter to court on behalf of 16 million Istanbulers. I'd like to ask: If Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality were in the AK PARTY today, would we be dealing with such matters at all?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0237par0201	It's not possible again. Don't ask.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0236par0202	But we have to ask on behalf of everyone. Honourable MPs, a similar incident took place in Ankara. We had historical buildings on the property of the station in Ankara. One morning, we woke up, and the posters of the University of Medipol were on top of the buildings. I'd also like to address Mr. Fahrettin Koca. Instead of trying to build a building at your own university, your own hospital, please give me a license to make sure that LÖSEV, which is set up in our district of Lakebaş, is 400 beds. It's embarrassing, hurtful, defamatory and hurtful to the state of the Republic of Turkey that you try to block out services there and shut down buildings for yourself. Members of parliament, those who are trying to take Ankara Station from our nation, are now trying to take Haydarpaşa and Sirkeci Gars in Istanbul. These cultural and historical values can't be traced back to anyone. I invite the planners to return from reason and error, to listen to the voice of their conscience and to say, "Stop! Stop! Congressmans, border is honor. Our economic boundaries are our customs and customs practices. It is our duty to protect these borders. In this context, the proposal for the Customs Law is generally positive, but it seems that while various consultation mechanisms have been activated while drafting the proposal, the sector representatives who have been doing business with customs in the first place have not received sufficient opinions. The proposal is more the size of a narrow-scale law that sums up punishments and uncertainty than a comprehensive customs arrangement expected. I hope the shortcomings of the bill will be discussed and corrected during the General Assembly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up. Respected lawmakers, we must not forget our customs officers who have arranged our customs and order. On this occasion, during the terrible terrorist attack at Ataturk Airport in 2016, I am confining Hope Sakaroglu and all customs guard martyrs who were a hero and martyr of one terrorist. Our customs guards have had demands and struggles regarding their rights for some time now, and we should listen to them. We need to make improvements to our rights, staff status, service compensations, and transfer status, and hand over our rights to these heroic personnel who protect our boundaries in customs. Mr. President, thank you. With these feelings, I salute you and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0238par0214	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the non-existent statement of the 1st Amendment to Customs Law be changed in the form of the undisclosed. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Adana MP Müzeyyen Sevkin wants to talk about the motion. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0239par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 1st Amendment to the Customs Law. I salute you all. Respected lawmakers, if you look at the overall proposal of the Customs Law presented to the General Assembly as 20 articles, unfortunately the view of the relevant sectors has been unintended, unintended, and has been brought to the attention of bureaucrats. In the new system, there will be more clear solutions to the needs of citizens who will be prepared and discussed directly by lawmakers, not by the ministry's hands, but by a new system called the Customs Law. It is also seen that a system called the new system does not have healthy results, but does not provide a solution to the problems of the citizens. When drafting a proposal for the law, importing and exporting companies, relevant associations, should be given the opinion of the components related to the issues. Sector representatives have informed us that they have learned from the opposition of the law proposal. According to the Ministry of Commerce's data, the total export of 2018 is $168.1 billion, while imports are 223.1 billion. Unfortunately, in this proposal of the law, we see that there is no study for exports to meet imports. Second, reductions in fines also show a shortage of punishments, which are used as an invitation to smuggling. Again, there is uncertainty in the proposal of the law, which has not been defined by a clear line of good faith or ulterior motives. Dear lawmakers are aware that measures for the prevention of security and trafficking in domestic and international transit on Article 1 are insufficient and are open to abuse. For example, there is still no clarity as to why the first - grade port of Mersin imports were moved to Urbana, although it was included in the press. Dear lawmakers, of course, there's a lot to be said about customs, our valued deputies have passed on, but I'd like to give you a few examples over Adana. In Turkey, in agriculture, the farmer's debt to public and private banks is worth a total of 107 billion Turkish liras; when we look at the Adana special, we see that the debt is $4.4 billion Turkish dollars. Dear lawmakers, in return of these loans, there have been 2 per cent losses in the past period, while the current rate is 6 per cent; it is difficult, farmer. As it is known, there was a 70-80 per cent loss in the narcissist in Adana, due to last year's rains and poyraz, and another 30 per cent loss in cotton. Dear lawmakers, you know, because our farmers can't pay their debts, unfortunately, new loans have to be opened next year, and these loans have to be delayed by the Agriculture Bank for at least two years, and interest rates have to be lowered, and loans need to be provided by the farmer again next year. I'd like to talk about a proverb: they cut the farmer's belly open, and 40 came out next year, so, you know, farmers have to think about next year, my dear brothers. Yes, again, this has been increased to 16 per cent due to the economic crisis, while public banks subsidize the farmer over 10 per cent indicator interest. A improvement in commercial loans has increased to 13 per cent, but the farmer is still receiving indicator interest from 16 per cent. Farmers expect this interest to be reduced as well. Dear lawmakers, we can't find money for the farmer, but unfortunately there are 115 thousand vehicles in the public, so the number of government vehicles is 115 thousand. How many friends are they in France? There are only 2,000 authorities in France, whose facial measurement is similar to ours, with 26,000 authorities in Italy. So this government or this administration -- let's call it government, because now there is no government -- can also pay the farmer to delay the farmer's interest. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0240par0245	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0239par0246	Dear MPs, again, I'd like to talk about the district of Aladağ, Adana. The mine is a town with potential; we have a town with 1.5 billion tons of chrome reserves, and since it can't get enough of the incentives, it's a pity that the miners in the sector are unable to pay a salary right now after the recent increase in energy. There are no attendings at the hospital in this town, which is worth adding. Because the village roads were out of order and you had to shut down village schools and move to school, our daughters from those village schools died in the fire in Aladağ. Dear MPs, both the forest village and the mining sector must be supported in our district of Aladağ. Those of you who say, "Don't you have to find work for college graduates?" Those who say, "Don't your husband work for a woman who's looking for a job?" They have to produce resources. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish that these resources would be properly assessed within the scope of budget negotiations. I wish to create these resources for pensioners, non-assigned teachers and farmers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0241par0252	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 2nd article, which I shall have read and process according to the order of the violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and re-organise Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Changes in the Common Customs Law in the following way. The following joke was added to Article 86 of the Law 2-4458 after the 2nd joke. Three. When a customs obligation is born under Articles 183 and 184, it is financially responsible for the property subject to the actual responsible transit regime. In the case of the customs administration, under Law 5607, it is considered whether or not the actual responsibility for determining the responsibility of the person responsible is involved in the processing of the verb. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. To talk about the motion, Iconian MP Fahrettin Yoshüstüs. Here you go, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0242par0268	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you with respect and love. I'd like to express my opinion on the proposal for a amendment to the Customs Law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to start by explaining to you the statement of an employee who served in customs who served as head of Human Resources. He says this is not the kind of brother who's run for Human Resources: the management style is not the kind of person who cares about the heart and soul of the staff in the Customs and who is trying to improve it. I want to continue to talk about this important assessment. When the current law proposal is passed and enforced, nearly 20,000 customs employees will start implementing these legislation, but come to the point that customs workers have not been asked a question about this law -- their communities, their unions, their institutions -- they haven't been given an opinion, so what do you think about this arrangement? No one has said, nor have anything serious been brought in here about the problems of customs workers. It is known that those who serve in customs are restless and unhappy, not getting what they deserve. It is not possible for an institution whose employees are restless and unhappy to provide a qualified service. We all know customs are the face of a state. Every negativity in customs has a negative effect on our country's image. Dear lawmakers -- also expressed here -- all customs procedures go through the backs of these 20,000 employees during a period when our foreign trade volume is approaching $400 billion a year. In the 17-year-old AK PARTY administration, customs workers have unfortunately been taken back from their current rights. Can you imagine, after they go to customs and do the customs work, the companies will deposit money on behalf of customs? These coins used to be distributed to all personnel, and then our AK PARTY power -- thanks to our government -- comes a lot to the authorities. They said, "They transferred 50 percent of these revenues into the treasury, and so, unfortunately, customs workers were taken further back. Now, when it comes to customs workers, nobody thinks like a normal civil servant. These are our brothers, our sixty-three-hour-a-week employees, who serve at the gates 24/7. These people are the ones who don't get what they deserve in return for working day and night. Today our customs doors lack technical equipment. There's no part of our mobile x-ray devices. In some places there are no alternatives to established x-ray devices. Why am I saying this? When this x-ray device breaks down at a customs gate, the alternative is that there are no backups, so there are piles in the customs doors, and our citizen's services are failing, and so are our employees' psychology. Dear lawmakers, especially terror and smuggling abuses at customs doors in our Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions have devastated dozens of our customs workers in recent years. In 2015, the PKK terror organization -- as you know -- was haunting our customs workers, kidnapped our brothers, and from time to time, customs workers, particularly the Habur Customs Gate, were attacked collectively. Unfortunately, in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, where we have many customs doors, the customs gates for the people have created a revenue portal in the cities where the customs gates are.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0243par0277	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0242par0278	However, an organization that would remove the way this revenue gate was formed was not built by the Ministry. Especially because of the entrances to the time of the shift change, he's been trafficked, and the officers who arrested the smugglers have been punished from time to time. What's the reason? Because of the extraordinary use of the active ethnic structure in the region. At the customs gates, we lack housing in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia. Most of our officers who go to East and Southeast Anatolia are unable to take their families, but our Ministry of Commerce, under the new name of our region, has neither been contributing economically to these areas, nor reducing the five-district system to 3 ▪ and allowing them to offer a peaceful, safe service by staying in these areas for less time or by encouraging employees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course we have a lot to say. Hopefully, in chapter two, I'll rephrase the customs workers' problems from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0244par0284	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Change in Customs Law, we propose and propose that the statement be changed in the form of. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Yıldız Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Manisa MP Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Bakırlıoğlu.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0245par0299	Dear President, I have made a commitment to the 2nd Amendment to the Customs Law. I salute the General Assembly. The clause envisions regulation in Article 86 of the Customs Law. Customs are the doors that allow local trade to meet international trade. Customs implementation policies therefore affect many sectors directly, leading to the agricultural sector. Last year, I told you about the damage the olive oil from this bench has done to our manufacturer. As you may recall, during the most active period of olive season last year, the Agricultural Credit Co-ops were authorized to import olive oil from the Afrin region, which led to a tragic decline in oil and olive prices. The decision-making Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Bekir Pakdemirli claimed that only 5,000 tons of olive oil would come in on the matter, that so much oil would not affect the market. We talked about the opposite, that 5,000 tons of oil would have a negative impact on the market. Dear lawmakers, olive prices are directly related to oil prices, especially in season when olives are abundant. The price of oil affects oily olive prices and oily olive prices affect olive prices. That's exactly what happened last season. It affected oil, olive oil and olive prices from Afrin (Afrin) and caused our farmer to have a very bad season, crushed under increasing costs. During the process, we submitted several questions to the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the General Directorate of Free Zones and the Agriculture Loan Co-ops. We asked how much olive oil came from Afrin, what the cost was, how much more olive oil would come, and we couldn't find any healthy information. At first, we will bring 5,000 tons of oil. The Minister of Agriculture, who said, "How much oil will you bring?" could not answer the question. The same question was answered by the Agricultural Loan Co-ops. So it wasn't like the Minister of Agriculture told the public, there's no limit, there's no limit, there's no limit, as long as there's oil in Afrin, as long as we get customers for this oil. And when that happened, and it was said that there was more than 5,000 tons of oil in the market, we started asking these organizations the same questions over and over again. Finally, Agriculture Credit Co-operatives admitted they brought 26,000 tons of olive oil with export record last season, 26,000 tons! Where are 5,000 tons, 26,000 tons? More than five times. You have to ask the Minister of Agriculture, who says 5,000 tons of olive oil doesn't spoil the market. Does the import of 26,000 tons of olive oil affect the market? I'm going to import 5,000 tons of oil, even if it's exported. It's going to affect the domestic market. Importing 26,000 tons of olive oil, even if it's exported, will blow the market. That's exactly what happened last year. The prices dropped at the beginning of last season didn't move for long, so our farmer had to sell his product below its cost. The same scenario began this season because there are no rules, no quotas, no limits. We asked the Agricultural Loan Co-operatives if they would bring oil from Afrin this year. The same conditions include importing olive oil during the 2019-2020 season. We have received the answer. 26,000 tons of imported oil has been exported, so 3,000 tons of oil is currently in storage, but this oil is not in storage, it is alleged to have been put on the inside market, which is a very serious claim. Dear lawmakers, this practice does not comply with any customs regime. This oil is on special leave. The worst part is, Afrin olive oil is alleged to be sold as Turkish oil. No quotas, no limits, no rules, no inspections. How much oil are you bringing? Answer: No matter how much oil there is in Afrin, it is not incompatible with the state's seriousness, it is not sustainable. Look, oil prices for 20 liras at the beginning of the season are dropping again. The Orhangazi Agriculture Room cost the olives. According to this research, the costs increased by 45 percent last year. One kilogram of olives costs $4.35. The manufacturer doesn't know how much support he's getting yet. Increased costs, reduced prices, devastated the manufacturer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish? Why is the oil coming from Afrin, under all these circumstances? And how much more oil will there be? We don't know the answers to these questions. Dear lawmakers, there are serious allegations and accusations about the oil from Afrin. In short, the situation we're in right now is unacceptable, and we don't accept it. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0246par0313	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the third article, which I shall have read and process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency (3) of Article 167 of Article 167 of the Law No. 3-4458 has been added to the declaration following the declaration. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Muhammet Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate because we don't have enough majority, Mr. President. Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0247par0328	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Council, and our beloved nation. In the year of the 100th anniversary of the foundation of our Veteran Assembly, I believe we will do sincere work on what our nation is looking forward to finding a solution. Besides, I'll make it easy for our heroes on duty abroad and abroad, and I wish them luck, God help them. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the third amendment to the Customs Law. With change, customs taxes are granted exemptions to importing goods into our country for national defence and domestic security. So, so far, the imports in this context have been exempted from customs tax? Why was this material needed? In advance of the presidential government system, the National Defence Ministry's Undersecretary of the Defence Industry is taking advantage of the exemption, but there have been doubts as to whether the Defence Industry presidency, which was created after the system change, is taking advantage of the same exemption. The issue of the bet is that the Defence Industry President is also recognised and able to address the reservations. As a matter of fact, the new system gives us much different kinds of hesitations. The new government system challenges unnecessary confusion. This system, presented with the promise of reducing bureaucracy, is, frankly, confronting us with a brand-new bureaucratic riddle. Let alone this new structure, even if we have the ideal presidential system, the integration of both our institutions and bureaucratic structure, the reflex of our nation, at best, is possible at the end of a maximum of 20 years. In today's world, where technology is faster than the flow of time, a 20-year period opens up the difference between us and developed countries. In order to improve the quality of our legislature, we must quickly ensure that the government system, which we're in, is to maintain the dignity of our parliament, and to prevent it from defunctioning our Parliament, is to be transferred to the improved parliamentary system that we've had a hundred and fifty years of experience. Furthermore, drafting and overseeing law proposals and conducting audit activities is a practical new practice for us lawmakers to establish two main tasks, while the execution is determined by Parliamentary studies. We are faced with situations where we will have no knowledge without the necessary steps to monitor the law-making process. In the commissions, the ruling-opportunity parties are united, we can't work in accordance with the interests of our nation. A parliamentary game is being played in front of our eyes. Dear lawmakers, it is only fair that the imports of our national defence are brought to our country without duty, which has been in effect for a very reasonable and long period of time, but you do agree that it is more necessary, effective, and important to ensure our national security. On the other hand, it is important to consider whether our state institutions, which need to import the items, have a specific plan on which countries need their products or different foreign companies offer their products at different prices and choose their preferences with their persuasive abilities. In this regard, sharing their preferences with transparency and the creation of standards will also prevent our institutions from being undermined. It is also necessary to ensure that technical information be discussed in our Parliament, such as who will determine the criteria for imports, whether imports will be carried out by the state or by the private sector. However, the need for domestic production should be encouraged and preferably supported by facilitating measures for the creation of a competitive industry. We, as the legislature, should provide the equality of opportunity that our industrialists and entrepreneurs could need to achieve these ideas. On the other hand, when we say our defense industry, we learn that Sakarya Tank Paletin, one of the lifebloods of our defense industry, was put into privatisation program for 25 years, off the radar. And unfortunately, we're transferring the operating status of this factory, which sees the most important work of the defence industry, to a private company that is financed by a foreign country, free of the guarantee of our state, which we have no doubt will last for a full period of time. If we see that this foreign country, supposedly friendly to our country with romantic thoughts, has reached agreements with countries across the border from our country to seek natural gas and drilling in the Eastern Mediterranean, we will be able to understand how grave a mistake we have made again. At the end of my words, I would like to point out that in other cities affected by cold winter conditions, like Erzurum and Erzurum, where I am a MP, our captors will have great difficulty in using natural gas and electricity at exorbitant prices, perhaps they will not be able to use it. I'd like to ask that this year's Supreme Assembly consider my proposal for the natural gas used by our most affected cities in the past legislature. In the cold winter days, I salute our General Assembly, saying that it would be cruel for our people to be forced to live on more lopsided circumstances rather than on the 21st century terms.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0248par0341	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the word "also change" from the expression of the third article of the Law on Customs shall be changed in the form of a statement. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Yıldız Turan Aydoğan Aydın Özer Mahir Polat Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate because we don't have sufficient majority. It's Izmir MP Mahir Polat who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0249par0356	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise regarding the change in the current Customs Law. Sir, when the Customs Law change began to be discussed, it was very exciting for customs consultants, customs officials, and foreign traders who worked in the sector, but when the proposal came to the commissions, we faced a huge gap in the proposal, and there was only a number of provisions for the punishment, but it was about making a new law that could solve the problems of legislation that the customs had been waiting for day-to-day. We can raise problems under three topics: We can address problems for customs counselors, customs officers, and foreign traders who work there. What do foreign traders want? They want fast, quickly exporting goods without waiting too long in customs, importing them, but today's legislation won't allow it. On the road, a person may experience a sudden change, a notice, serious problems with his possessions. Customs laws have become very complicated because of the work being done on behalf of many institutions, which is also very complicated for the Turkish Institute of Standards, as well as customs for the Ministry of Health, so the legislation is very complicated. We did Law 4458, followed by regulations, followed by notifications, and they were constantly tried to expand with special notifications, generalizations, explaining, explaining. To give you an example, we're taking out the 2016/12 notice on the process regime, and then we're trying to manage customs with about 150 generalities, savings. There's a lot of variations in the proposal here, and they're available for error. Again, given the problems with customs advisors, there are room laws that have been blocked three times by the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey. So far, we're saying that the customs consultants' room laws haven't been passed, that the government is in fact in charge, and that they need to get them out as soon as possible, and we're waiting. Again, customs advisors have a problem with minimum wage. Customs consultants get crushed year after year by year by increased inflation, and their criminal action regarding their transactions is not parallel, but much heavier. Again, the customs advisors are having trouble with the exam. People study four years of college, do their internships, take exams, become assistant customs consultants, take a test that no freelancer has ever been subjected to, only three times in their life. There's no such thing as financial advisors or lawyers. Again, from Law 1615 to Law 4458, in terms of officials who worked in customs, the senior officers, the managers, the vice principals, and the vice principals, were able to obtain documents as customs advisors, and Law 4458 narrowed it down in Law 4458, bringing it as a favourable retirement to the senior officials of the current Ministry of Commerce. This needs to be reconsidered. Again, customs inspectors have expectations. What are they? Being the long-awaited customs expert. Again, customs guards, which are one of the four important law enforcement forces, carry weapons, but have no gun compensation. Although many of these friends are graduates and graduates, they are lower than the additional indicators of civil servants at other public institutions, in secondary school and high school. Another inequality is on customs officers' salaries. Customs officers who receive the least salary from the state are paid around $2,600, and they have no chance of surviving if they don't have travel and overtime. Once again, when the income tax is being calculated over their salaries, the other officers will be cut off from their jobs, which are entitled to their labors in the calculation, and they will again be subject to the arbitrary application of State Officers Act 657, and they will not be able to benefit from leave of illness and excuses. We said at first that he was about to enter the 11th Development Plan, the room code of the customs advisors, but, unfortunately, again, he didn't come as a result of the pressure of the TOBB, so we have to bring him in as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, we have to make a more understandable, simpler, more modern customs law during this legislature. I'm saying that if we don't, we'll have every day of trouble managing customs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0250par0371	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0251par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0250par0374	There are two motions on Article 4; I will act according to the order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and re-organise Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in the Common Customs Law in the following way. The first joke (I) of Article 177 of Law 4-4458 (MADDE 4-4458) was redesigned as follows. "l) The first joke (a) and (c) bents of Article 235 (a), the third joke (c) and the fifth joke (c) of the article (c) mentioned in the hand of the article (c) and the item mentioned in Article 237 and the item mentioned in the third and sixth jokes of Article 237 Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ankara MP Senol Sunat wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0252par0388	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARDI Group to salute the High Council. Yes, it has changed 47 times since the Customs Act took effect 31 times, when we also evaluated the 16 amendments to the Council of Ministers' decision in 2009. In addition, customs regulations have been changed 37 times so far. These are numerical changes, the number of changing substances and content, unfortunately, not enough time to count these problems. By the way, there are hundreds of changing regulations, notifications, generalities, savings. Even with a very simple example, I'm afraid the reality of the situation is clear. For example, the decision of the processing regime, the number of articles of this decision is 29 and the number of interim substances in the verdict is 22. Unfortunately, interim matter applications are about 17 years old in this business. This decision has been changed 18 times so far. Temporal materials are just a matter of time away. So this notice -- as I just stated -- has been changed 26 times. The day goes by so that no new legislation is added to the amendments, no day passes, no changes to the laws. Now the situation has become so common that when control, consultation, opinion, objection mechanisms are disabled, what is requested is changed to the person and the way requested. Now, with this kind of practice, you've missed the top of the cantar, and the situation has become inextricable. Congressmans, as a state, we must have a very strict customs policy. You must prevent customs smuggling, we must prevent it. Fighting smuggling is important today, not only to protect the state's economic costs, but also to eliminate the financial power of illegal terrorist organizations that benefit. By the way, the statesman, whose integrity is his theme, the first thing that comes to mind is the Customs Ministry, and the former Minister, who, in a very short time, has largely prevented smuggling, I remember the great patriot, Gün Sazak Sir, with mercy and gratitude from here. In the Anti-Trafficking Law or similar laws, it is not only to aggravate the punishments of crimes; it is to take administrative, financial, economic and legal measures in customs. If you don't have a policy, if you don't have a policy, you do momentary, day-to-day apps, which, as this uncertain situation melts the power that exists, things that change depending on what the need is for that moment create problems for each section. If what you need today is a tax to collect at a moment's notice, then you take precautions and you process it, and it's not a good outcome. You've allowed the imports of products the country doesn't need, you're giving them, you're saying, you're putting production, you're making, you're making, you're making, you're making, you're making, you're putting everyone in the supply chain. In this case, you're creating an unemployed, innocuous, indebted, troubled, and unproducing prison country. You also create an advantageous area for other countries where you trade internationally. And let me remind the lawmakers and the court bureaucrats who drafted this law: Yes, in Article 3 of this law -- which is striking in my eye -- after being under the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, I'm asking you. Article 3 (i.e., usually given that laws are prepared by court bureaucrats, the proposals of the law) he says: "The Third Amendment goes on to come after the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service. " Well, your leader, your world leader, has removed the Undersecretary of the Code 703. The Undersecretary became the Ministry. Fix it, and then he'll get mad at you, and I'll warn you right now. We're going to change this freak system anyway when the time comes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0253par0399	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the third and fifth amendment to the amendment to Customs Law shall be changed to the fifth. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Turan Aydoğan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Gökhan Zeybek Hussain Star Tacettin Bayır Aydın Özer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Istanbul MP Gökan Zeybek wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0254par0413	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. A significant portion of our customs gates are at the junctions of the railways and the sea. In our Istanbul, there are two large historical structures that connect the railways with the sea, such as the Haydarpaşa Garı and Sirkeci Garı buildings. As it has been known, these two station buildings have not been used in railway and rail systems because of newly built rail systems, and there has been serious debates about how to assess these buildings in Istanbul and Turkey for a long time. Here today, there are several lawmakers who have served within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who have been mayor of the capital city in the past, who have been mayor of the district; Kayseri Mayor now, mayor of Antalya, mayor of the capital city of Antalya, mayor of the Army, mayor of Samsun, even mayor of Samsun's mayor of the Historical Cities Union -- Gaziantep had also served as president. The mayors have a common duty: they need to transform historical structures, public structures, even private property belonging to third parties, into museums, city museums, living cultural assets, which we sometimes call historical and social memory, from the past to the future. I, of course, wish good health to Metin Sonen. I also regret that many members of the Justice and Development Party, who came from the teachings of Metin Solen, did not learn a single shred of his teaching. Haydarpaşa Garı, an important cultural presence -- which is a symbol of entering Istanbul in terms of social memory -- is evidence in our memory of entering Istanbul in all the films that the person who came to İstanbul from Anatolia came down the stairs of Haydarpaşa Garı. Now, look, the State Railways are auctioning this place out for use. Four firms take files in the tender, two of them bid. The bidder owns one of the two companies, and until just two years ago, he worked at the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality on a salary of $3,000. In two years, he's starting a company, building a company with $10,000 in capital. But when it turns out that these stations are going to be tendered, in a hurry, in a way that will cause corruption in the tender, first by visiting the Minister of Transport in his office, and then by sharing it with social media, the tender is mixed into the tender, and then the company's capital is raised from $10,000 to $1 million. On the other hand -- considering the 35-year history of Istanbul's largest city municipality -- the massive partnerships of Istanbul's Metropolitan Municipality also make a consortium and enter the tender. Dear friends, for those of you who have worked in the public office, for those who know the tender legislation -- for the sake of a consortium, it would have to be considered sufficient only to finish and finish the job, even though they have filed a full $274m finish document from the past 2018 -- which is based only on the fact that there are other tasks in the past 2018 -- there is no other tasks in the city, and there is a contract in the city, not on the basis of the fact that it has been co-operated in a consortium. Look, I want to remind you of the process. First, the Ministry has made a statement that it is unethical for the Metropolitan Municipality to enter into this tender. It is not in accordance with the terms of the tender, because it does not allow the tender to take place on equal terms. After that, the tender-day file, which gave the file, was fully accepted and the envelope was opened, received by Hezarfen's company, the number from the entrance of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. According to the tender legislation of the owners of these bids, which are now considered valid... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing. ...in 15 days, the price must be raised to the highest public level and the terms of the tender must be fulfilled. Precious MPs are the two cultural structures that represent the memory of the city, just as in all cities, the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, which deserves its rightful place in Istanbul, just as in Kayseri. If there's a former mayor among you who thinks differently, we thought so in the past, but now that we're lawmakers, all our views are now changed by instructions from above. None of what we've told you so far is valid from now on. If you say so, it's a reckoning between you and what you've been through and what you've done. But I say that we are determined to pass on our cultural heritage and all other inheritances in Istanbul, which make up our memory, to future generations, and the spear won't fit in the sack. I offer you love.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0255par0427	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 2 motions on the 5th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and re-organise Article 5 of the Law Proposal for Changes in the Customs Law in the following way. The second joke was redacted as follows in the last sentence of Article 179 of Law 5-4458. However, the adoption of the above demands depends on paying a 3% of the CIF value in exchange for the exchange value of the property, with fines and elliptical costs, and other expenses and other expenses, if you want to use this application twice, at 3% of the CIF value. The application depends on the payment of 10% of the CIF's value in terms of storage and hand-held costs and other expenses and exchanges of goods, if the adoption of these demands is in place after the tender announcement is published or the retail decision is made, and if the sale is made before the sale is carried out. Apart from that, applications are not accepted. I'm going to take a look at this. Article 1 (c), (i), (i), (i), (l) and (m) do not apply the first sentence of the article (a) for the item specified in the hand of the second joke (a). Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ankara MP Durmiş Yilmaz wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0256par0444	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th Amendment to Customs Law 104. I salute you all. Speaking by group presidents on the general law and on the first chapter, some figures have been pronounced concerning the import and export operations that constitute the main backbone of the Turkish customs legislation, which regulates Turkey's relationship with the outside world, and the reviews of total exports, have also been responded by the power. We don't have to discuss the numbers given about imports, exports, they're a phenomenon, this is a statement: there's been a billion dollars of exports. What we need to know here is, at what point, at what point, at what time, at how much cost, and how much resources have been used? There's got to be this information in order for a comparison to be made. It's the only way something can be confirmed or wronged. It's got a time dimension, it's got a cost size, etcetera. None of this is mentioned, and it's being given a global figure, which is correct. But that doesn't mean anything. We exported $168 billion, right? Of course it's true, it's the official number of the state. But the question is: What is the value of Turkey's contribution in this export? What are we training for? We asked Mr. Trade Minister last year in the budget, but so far we haven't heard back. I'm asking the speaker of the ruling party and the ruling group who responded to the opposition: Mr. Congressman, for example, if you would go and tell the Minister about this, we've been asked a question, what is the value of adding $168 billion of exports, how much is that worth? Can you tell us the answer? If you come and give us this information here, it's much more valuable. In 2010, a study by the State Undersecretary of Foreign Trade -- this is the official number of the state, you can object to that -- the finding there is that we have to import 0.82 cents in exports to make $1 exports. If that number is still true and it's valid, it's worth about $10 billion in $168 billion exports, 82 million people. What's to be done about it? What needs to be done about this? These matters need to be considered. So there's no point in making fun of each other. Other than that, is there anyone among you who has any knowledge of the change in foreign trade? Or is there someone who might be interested in the matter and ask about it -- not everyone -- to tell us about it? It would have been better if we had that information when we were talking about exports. Today, for the past four years, the foreign trade has been working against us, that's for sure, and we're the movers. Given the foreign trade limit, in order to export $100, four years ago in this country, for example, we have to export over 200 kilograms today while exporting 150 kilograms. Why is this coming forward? It's from imports in exports. Why is there a study of this and we can't be told that? We did it. You say, "We did it." You say, "We did it." You say, "We did it." You said, "We did it." You said, "We did the bridge." You said, you did it. There's no point in discussing this, and there's no point in arguing about it. We're walking down the road you did, we're going to the hospital, we're going through the tunnel, but the question is, when you built this hospital, the road, the bridge, the average cost, the efficiency of the previous period; did you do better today, did you do better, did you do cheaper, did you use more resources? You need to tell us that so we can do a comparison. In the last 17 years, you've used $2.2 trillion in budgets. I've told you before, you've used over 70 billion dollars in privatisation revenues. On top of that, the foreign debt -- $130 billion you've taken over -- was used for $450 billion in foreign resources in the private sector and the public sector, and there's an increase in domestic debt. With all that in mind, you can't afford to...
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0257par0450	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0256par0451	I'm finishing. ...that's what we're doing today, when we're doing the one-mile drive at this price. You should be able to say, "Yes, that's what we're doing today." So there's going to be a time, of course, when you're going from point A to point B, which, of course, costs. When we went from this point A to point B -- for example, when you brought the exports to $168 billion -- we walked at the speed of the turtle, did we walk at the speed of light, and how much resources did we use, what did that cost us? Please come to us like this, and let us use this information to communicate with you in our relations and criticisms, and therefore have an idea of how to use the country's combined resources more efficiently. There's no such thing. We exported $168 billion. What's the point? What information is there in this? There's no information in this. Therefore, as I end my words, I say: Please, let us not lower the quality of our discussions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's give each other numbers that can be proven, wronged, verifiable, knowledgeable, and let's not grow on each other. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0258par0458	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement, which is worth 10% of the value of CIF, shall be replaced by 3% of the value of 1.2 percent of the value of CIF, in Article 5 of the Law Proposal for Change in the Customs Law. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Yıldız Turan Aydoğan Aydın Özer Murat Minister Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. It's İzmir MP Murat who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0259par0473	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute the General Assembly. I wish the success of our Mehmet-duk, who served in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace; I wish our martyrs God's mercy, and my condolences to their relatives. Friends, we're discussing the Law Proposal for Change in Customs Law. The law proposal grants customs officers the right to possession of weapons and tuition exemptions in retirement. We don't know what kind of security problems customs officers have, how many gunfights, we don't know that, or if these security issues continue in retirement, but we brought this arrangement here. This arrangement brings to mind another question, or rather, it raises another question to me. From 2015 to today, I've been fighting against the rights of police sergeants, special police officers, special sergeants, petty officers, and my friends in this Parliament last semester know how much I've spoken about it, how much I've offered the law. We're talking about a profession beyond all professions, in terms of job difficulties, in the military profession. Every friend we have on the stand wishes our soldiers success without exception, wishes our martyrs mercy, but as for the rights of the petty officer, the chief of staff, the veteran of expertise, the gendarmes, we can't travel in tongues and barley. Friends, Petty Officer, Specialist Carabinieri, Specialist... they don't want charity, fitness from anyone. Let not our soldier, the sons of this people, be the sin of our brother. Let's solve these problems together here. Specialist gendarme has graduated from the school with the letter "Aggressor Gendarme School" written on its door. We've taken care of the officers' attitude in this House, we've taken care of the petty officers, but we haven't been able to solve the police officer's attitude problem, they still don't count as services. Well, if we can, let's get the veterans to switch to Petty Officers, a one-time senior officer. These were already taken as petty officers, and then he changed the legal arrangement, continued to recruit petty officers, and there was a serious problem with the status of the General Command of the Gendarme and our friends. If we can't do that, let's give them the 3600 additional indicators they deserve. Regarding that, when I was on the Internal Affairs Commission, I told the general commander of the period, I found this problem in my lap, I will solve it. He said, "He's gone, he's come to the two general commanders of the Gendarmes, and the problem is still unresolved." And then there's the army house problem. It's called a military home, but the expert is unable to take advantage of this military house. When the attending comes to rest in the army, friends, from his partner, who he served with, fought side by side, fought alongside, fought in battle. This army-house situation must be dealt with as well. Petty Officers are the backbone of the Turkish Armed Forces. If that sub is swimming, if the destroyer is swimming, if the fighter is flying, it's because of those technical petty officers. All the technical classes have petty officers, but we haven't been able to solve the problems with the petty officers. Petty Officers should have a degree of nine to two, and those who have a degree should have a degree of eight. When a petty officer retires, he can receive 50% of his salary, 50% of his pension when an expert is retired, while when an officer retires, he gets 70 percent of his salary, friends. We have to solve this problem. We have to solve the petty officers' compensation problems. Your attending has no job security, he's working on a contract. We should be able to get the attending to retire in his uniform in this House. When an attending gets sick, he doesn't go to the hospital, he doesn't go. Why? Friends are afraid that they will cancel my contract. We have to solve this problem. Dear friends, as I say in every setting, when Mehmetchik, whose uniform is a martyr, falls into this ancient land, his body is brought into the family's furnace, we must think again when we see their house, without plaster, without paint, with their families living in the tent of Yörük. Mehmet's porter doesn't need speeches, my friends. Their praise is what they've already done on a noble mission. Mehmetchik needs to be healed; he needs to be resolved; he needs to not worry about his family, his family, his children. I wanted to remind you that while we were giving you the right to arms on customs officers, the problems of Mehmet Çikik, who is currently in charge of Operation Peace Fountain. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0260par0487	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 2 motions on the 6th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose re-organise Article 6 of the Law Proposal for Changes in the Customs Law in the following way. The following joke has been added to Article 180 of Law No. 6 ▪ 4458. 6. A year-long application for the refund of the amount entrusted to the owner will be accepted within the period of the court's decision on extradition, while others will be granted a year's notice. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Dursun Atash Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate because we don't have sufficient majority. It's Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0261par0503	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI Group on the motion that the Customs Law be changed. I salute your high council. Our agenda is Customs. Foreign trade is also the main topic of customs. Our country has the potential to take the lead in foreign trade with good policy. Although agriculture may be inoperable due to input costs, we are still among the top countries in many agricultural products in the world trade; look at cotton, look at nuts. We are an important cotton country in the world ranked after Australia, in the first five in product quality, and in the first ten in production. We have a privileged position as the only world country to produce cotton and register it using GDO-free seeds. But our country still imports cotton. We need to change our perspective. Again, Turkey is first in the production of nuts, but is not effective in determining prices. The price of nuts is determined by the Hamburg Nuts Stock Exchange in Germany, which process and exports nuts at a very low price, although it is not a nut manufacturer. These examples are important to show our view of our foreign trade, although they are not directly relevant to customs legislation. Foreign trade is a subject to be discussed as a whole, including customs, including trucks, border crossings, logistics, and red tape. THAT'S HOW WE, THE GOOD PARTY, LOOK AT IT. A single penny to enter our country will not come into our citizen's pocket or out of his pocket through taxes, plus a value. Therefore, we generally consider this proposal as a positive for amendments to the Customs Law in order to address the shortcomings and defects in customs procedures. However, I wish the proposal had been prepared with a broad consensus before coming to the Commission, with the opinion, suggestion and support of opposition parties, relevant NGOs. For example, if the customs consultants who wanted to get into a room were able to express their demands and reasons. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to make a general assessment of what I have expressed in the Commission in the proposal of the law. Article 3 of the proposal envisions the immunity of the Defence Industry presidency from property and customs duties to free movement. We support this exemption from our national defense industry in accordance with public needs. But we would also like to point out that the change in the governance system in our country has caused confusion over such strategic issues. The state's seriousness does not coincide with the fact that the defence industrial presidency, which is very important for national security, is excluded from this immunity, even if it is a legal vacuum. Apart from this law clause, if there are complications that can slow down the functioning of other public institutions and cause security weakness, it is our hope that the arrangements for those institutions will be resolved immediately. On the 11th and 12th articles of the proposal, administrative fines have been provided. The lack of automation systems, as we put it, is also the cause of the declarations. Following the statement made to the administration, the person who has a statement before the examination, inspection, and inspections may notice the error - a good intentional initiative. If the company gives its statement within the framework of the import regime, it should not be subject to punishment if it declares the wrong procedure within 15 days before the administration determines it. The absence of any punishment for the declaration during this period will further encourage correcting the errors. Article 17 of the proposal renders customs advisers and assistants who are seen to act contrary to legislation unable to do business for six months. However, the expression "compulsory provisions" covers a very large area, and irregularity is a violation of the law, and it is a violation of the law to reduce value notifications. For this reason, the framework for temporary purchase of permission documents must be clearly drawn, and the terms of conduct against the terms of the terms must be added to the terms of conduct intended to benefit intentionally. Otherwise, this profession could become uninhabitable. This could cause even personal disagreements to cause victimization. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, back to the beginning of my speech, we said, without the Covenant, without the opinion, the proposal quickly came to the Commission. The problems with the Antrepo evacuations were also ignored. The application for evacuations must be popularized across the country, provided that an antrepo declaration is granted within eight hours, which is limited to Istanbul customs alone. The current situation leads to inefficient use of the antrepo and insufficient capacity problems. The problem can easily be solved if electronically displaying the information of the antrepo declaration through all administrations and the removal of property that has been processed by multiple customs administrations.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0262par0513	Pack it up, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0261par0514	I'm completing it, sir. The time is short, the problem is very short, but our proposals: the simple, understandable, fair, equal, transparent, and consistent customs legislation that will be applied to import and export items will allow the customs process to be carried out with minimal errors and costs, with clear and clear statements of how and how to apply them by which public institution and institution will be applied. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0263par0518	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Customs Law shall be changed in a year's time in the 6th Amendment clause of the current Customs Act. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bay Turan Aydoğan Aydın Özer Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Mehmet Gölmansur Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Hatay MP Mehmet Güzelmansur wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. May I be of use to you, Congressman? Now, if you keep the tangerine in there, people will follow it, and it won't make sense to talk. Why don't you just put it on the side, put it down?
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0264par0534	I'll put it this way and then I'll show you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0263par0535	Look, ask Ilhan Kesici. You have to lose the tangerine to listen to your speech.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0264par0536	At least they'll pay attention here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0263par0537	It's up to you, all right.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0264par0538	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 6th Amendment of the Law Proposal 104. I salute the General Assembly and all our citizens who are watching us on their screens. I'd like to talk to you today about the problems of the narciatrist manufacturer, especially the tangerine manufacturer. So far, I'm going to have this conversation by ignoring the manufacturer's problems, ignoring the deaf government, hoping that this time, the blood-crying manufacturer will take the necessary steps. I'm going to have this conversation by hearing the farmer's cry for the manufacturer's cry, hoping for effective measures to be taken. My fellow lawmakers, Hatay and Çukurova are ranked 1st in Turkey's production of satsuma tangerines. Only Hatay covers half of Turkey's production with the amount of tangerine it produces. However, the tangerine manufacturer in Hatay and Çukurova is troubled. The tangerine manufacturer in Hatay and Çukurova is in debt. The tangerine manufacturer in Hatay, Çukurova, has come to the point of giving up production, and our farmers are selling their garden and selling their house. Hatay stays in the tangerine branch of the tangerine manufacturer in Çukurova, and cannot assemble. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now tell you the reasons and details of this. The tangerine manufacturer's input costs, such as diesel, fertilizer, medicine, labor, have only increased twice as much since last year, but the tangerine is being sold today, unfortunately at the price ten years ago. Is there anyone in charge who can explain this? How does an ever-expensive product get sold at the price ten years ago? Today, the manufacturer has to sell the tangerine sold at least three to five liras in the market for 70 cents. Who does this profit in tangerine go to? The manufacturer's doing damage, but who's winning? No one's looking into it, no one's checking it out? The cost of tangerine manufacturers for 1 kilogram tangerine is 1 TL, while the manufacturer is selling the tangerine for 70 cents, costing 30 cents per kilo. It's not something the manufacturer can handle. It's not something the manufacturer can sustain. This lack of policy already remains in the tangerine branch of Hatay, such as all other products, because of this weakness, decaying in the branch. 90 per cent of the tangerine manufacturer in Hatay is in debt to the Agriculture Bank and to agricultural loan co-ops. The farmer is trying to make a living in debt, to produce, and the government has left the manufacturer alone with his fate, and he says, "Do what you want." Isn't that unfair? Why is this injustice tolerated? In the case of the tangerine manufacturer, the tangerine exporter faces the same injustice. Payments announced for the year 2018 still haven't been made, with a short name for the Support and Price Stabilisation Fund, the short name for the year 2018. DFI support for 2019 has not been announced. There's no money in the government, so there's no DFI payment this year. Is that claim true? Are they trying to save money from the producer, the exporter's support? My fellow lawmakers, especially in September 2018 and October 2019, caused serious damage to the heavy rainfalls and rains in Hatay, which occurred in January 2019. In Hatay, agriculture and animalism became unsustainable. Because of this heavy and heavy rain, trees and fruits have been destroyed, especially in the 50,000 acres of garden in our counties, Erzin, Fourways, Defne, Samandaka. Now, the farmer asks, as a manufacturer, what does the government want to do? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They want to know if we're dealing with imports, let's keep the narc in our country, let's lose the manufacturer, let's stop collecting tangerines, let's stop collecting tangerines. Is that your domestic policy? Dear MPs, come and listen to our suggestions: Let the farmer's debts be postponed for at least two years without interest, and let the farmer relax. Let the DFI payments be announced at once, let the exporter relax. Let the former year's DFI be paid quickly so that the exporter can relax. Who's affecting tangerine prices, who's dropping them, who's getting the profits? The inspection and sanction mechanisms for these matters are to be set up immediately and the export routes are to be opened. Otherwise, our nation won't be able to eat the tangerine that you see in front of me, our nation will be left short of vitamin A and C, condemned to imported and expensive tangerines. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the entire General Assembly, my love to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit03spe0265par0549	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-23sit04spe0265par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 104. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other topic on our agenda, it is Thursday (October 24th 2019) at 14 p.m. to discuss legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
