tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, there is a request to speak off-the-the-top as part of the 59th Article of the Interior Law on Operation Peace Fountain and on international developments of the administration. I'll grant that request. Now, to inform you on behalf of the administration, I'd like to invite Mr. Mevlüt Sergeant-oglu to the General Assembly. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, you've been speaking for 20 minutes. Later, I will promise political party groups ten minutes at will and one of the lawmakers who does not have a group for five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0002par0012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I want to thank you for allowing us to inform our High Council on behalf of our government regarding the campaign of the Fountain of Peace, which we started on October 9, 2019. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our fallen Mehmets and our fellow civilians, and patience to their relatives, and urgent healings to our wounded brothers and sisters. The blood of our martyrs is not left on the ground and will not remain. Honourable lawmakers are Turkey, which has been in Syria for nine years, and has faced the prefrontal effects of the conflict that led to the loss of hundreds of thousands of Syrians, the removal of millions. We've been working hard since day one to reach a stable political solution based on the legitimate expectations of the Syrian people and the UN Security Council Resolution 2254. We have officially rejected the solution to the Syrian conflict in military ways, and the further progress of the blocked political process has been made possible by our firm and decisive initiatives under the leadership of our President. Controversies with the Syrian opposition, which we are UN and guarantor, have finally yielded the fruit of our intense efforts in the Astana Platform in September past the past year and over a year and a critical threshold has been breached in the creation of an appropriate environment in Syria to pave the way for free and fair elections in Syria, and the Constitutional Commission has been established in Ankara on 16 September 2019. Turkey will continue to support its political solution process in neighbouring Syria in the coming period, and the Constitutional Committee will hold its first meeting in Geneva on October 30th. In response, our search for political solutions in Syria is not the alternative to our fight against terrorism or the anti-terrorism. Turkey is committed to the source of the threat and to fight a prerequisite vision with all terrorist organisations that pose a threat to its national security. Our country has struggled with the terror of DEAS and YPG-PYD/PKK in an area that exceeds 4,000 square miles [4,000 km] of Operation Firat Shield and Olive Branch, and has cleared these regions of terrorist organizations. In Syria, the glorious Turkish army has neutralized more than 3,000, including Iraq, 4,000 DEAS terrorists in total, fighting to the chest. While the whole world saw the fight against DEASK as an air-bombing in Syrian and Iraqi cities without looking for a terrorist-civil distinction, we continued our struggle step-by-step, even inches in the field, with the understanding that a single civilian's nose was not bleeding. Look, I'd like to give you an example: at least 1,335 civilians died today in their reports as the DEA's International Coalition of Anti-Deast is dropping bombs. As our allies tendered the fight against terrorism to other terrorist organizations, we did not compromise our determination as Turkey. We've never agreed to use selective approaches among terrorist organisations as subcontractors, and in Syria, despite any difficulties, we've implemented a legitimate, fair, moral-based and sustainable anti-terrorism strategy so far. We have effectively eliminated the DEAC and PYD-YPG/PKK threat to our borders from the west of Fırat. Our institutions have made great efforts in providing infrastructure, exponential structure and humanitarian services in these areas, and as a result, more than 360,000 Syrian brothers in Turkey have returned safely to these areas, and there we give them the support they need. Respected lawmakers were breaking the backs of terror heading towards our national security in the west of Fırat, while both the DEAS and the YPG/PKK were growing stronger and stronger with the support of our PYD-YPG terrorist organisations in the east of Fırat. We know very well why some countries and environments today are very uncomfortable with Operation Peace Fountain, and we are the cause of this disturbance. I mean, they wanted to build a terrorist state here, plain and simple. Today, look at the most reacting countries, especially France, whose goal was to establish a terrorist organization here and to do so in the field and in neighbouring areas. So the reason why they're attacking us so much is because they're disappointed that we've ruined this game, and that's the result of it. In the last two years, we have been subjected to hundreds of abuses, assaults, and hostile acts against our elements west of Fırat, through Menbic, to land in the east of Fırat, and as a nation. With the YPG-PYD tunnels stretching across our borders, not only explosives and ammunition has been taken to our land, but also terrorists. Terrorists trained in camps east of Fırat have sought action on our territory. Thanks to the superior and admirable efforts of our security forces, we were able to prevent most of these acts of terror. The PYD-YPG continued its attacks in Syria; they slaughtered civilians in Afrin, Cerablus, Cobanbey, Tel Rifat, and all civilians here, in exile. And the PYD-YPG never hesitated to deal directly with DEAŞ. Hundreds of DEAS militants have been evacuated by buses, and the YPGs have also provided for these buses within the framework of their agreement with DEASH. And again, not only did he release the DEAS he had in his possession, but he also gave them an allowance in exchange for their acts of terror in Turkey. We have all of this intel. So the YPG/PKK terrorist organization paid us to be attacked by the DEAS. So the YPG is now using the PKK as a power of attorney here, but this terrorist organization, the DEA, is using it to pay us back and release us and give us weapons. This terrorist organisation has increased the size of terror and oppression as the YPG-PYD has been mauled, not just Arab, Kurdish, Christian and Turkmen, but also children. Here he is, the President of the Syrian World Congress, a Christian minority, screaming and screaming in the centre of Holland, saying that this terrorist organization is forcing our children into its system. Unfortunately, no one hears it. Therefore, the Syrian Kurdish intellectual and politicians who opposed themselves in the first place killed, slaughtered, tortured, digested, banished locals. We always say: Today we have more than 350,000 Syrian Kurdish brothers in Turkey. If there are YPGs there, if the YPG is defending the rights of Kurds, why can't more than 350,000 Syrian Kurdish brothers come here? In my budget interview, I asked you clearly, and we're asking you now, and did you ever go and talk to any of the countries that support the YPG today? We say, "No, we haven't." Because, as I just said, unfortunately, their problems are different. And dozens of Arab villages and cities lost their historical structures and demographic structures over a thousand years after the ethnic cleansing operations of the PYD-YPG. These areas, where the Arabs have lived most of the time in three, have been abandoned to a handful of terrorists' demographic engineering games and again to their initiative, unfortunately. At least 1 million people were displaced and Arab children were prevented from studying in their native language, and the schools of the Syrians I just told you about were shut down by this YPG/PKK terrorist organization. When the local people rose up against the tyranny of this terrorist organization in Rakka, in Deyrizor, in Tel Abyad, in Haseke, unfortunately, this terrorist organization scanned those people with automatic weapons. In short, the PYD-YPG terrorist organization has carried out everything in its definition of crime against humanity. These crimes are not what we say or claim as Turkey, but are in the United Nations reports; they have also been recorded by international human rights organizations such as Amnesty and Human Rights Watch, and there are reports of them. Respected MPs, we are well acquainted with the PKK and its derivatives, and we are well aware of the Western attitude towards these terrorist organizations and we see them. The Republic of Turkey has used its first choice in fighting terrorist organisations to work with its allies. All our allies, especially the United States, have considered our expectations for the threat of the PYD-YPG, and we have tried to explain it, but our joint efforts to act against the PYD-YPG have all been blocked by the U.S. military security bureaucracy. Here, we accepted a road map to solve the YPG-PYD presence problem in Menbic. In 90 days, these YPGs would be removed from Menbic; 16 months ago, the YPGs are still in Menbic. Again, Mr. President Trump said that when he told President Trump that the promises were not met in December 2018, they would withdraw completely from Syria this time. Ten months later, U.S. troops are still there. They are now slowly withdrawing from the north, but they are not withdrawing from Syria. Trump published social media messages on January 14, 2019, which responded positively to Mr. President's request to establish a safe zone this time, even 20 miles - 32km deep - he himself mentioned it himself. Nine months passed, and the U.S. military security bureaucracy failed to carry out their president's orders, and we see that he still resists. Again, following Trump's decision to withdraw in December 2018, we patiently continued our efforts to establish a safe zone with the United States. The safety zone task force on our proposal has been assembled three times. At these meetings, we continued to convey our expectations to the United States. Finally, a preliminary agreement was reached between the US military delegation that arrived in Ankara on 5-7 August and our military authorities. In this preliminary agreement, I'd like to present them to you. What did the U.S. authorities promise? One, the PYD and the YPG have personally pledged to assemble heavy weapons; two, that the terrorists will withdraw from the region; three, we always say, what did the terrorist organization do there -- that we could establish patrol bases together on the territory of Syria -- but none of those promises have been fulfilled. As a result, our talks with the United States on the creation of a secure zone are unfortunately delayed. In all our contacts, we stressed that we would not hesitate to use our right to self-defense, which is due to international law. Again, we have repeatedly reiterated that we will not tolerate the presence of terrorists near our borders. We've sent messages that the existence of terrorist groups with separatist agendas threatens Syrian territorial integrity, but we've also seen that for reasons that I've just said, Syria doesn't even care who supports Syrian border integrity, territorial integrity, those terrorist organizations. After all, respected lawmakers, we have taken action as Turkey to ensure the safety of our country and our nation and the establishment of peace and stability in our region. In this framework, Mr. President personally ordered the launch of Operation Fountain of Peace by the Turkish Armed Forces on October 9th as Commander-in-Chief. And before we give this order, Mr. President has made a personal call to President Trump, saying that all the efforts we have just said have been sadly noted and that we have received no results, so that Turkey will act alone and launch operations. And just before and when the action started -- we pre-prepared -- we briefed the Astana garantators and informed the UN Secretary General at the same time. We sent a letter to the President of the UN Security Council to inform the Security Council. Also, we've informed the permanent members in the same way. Again, we informed the NATO Secretary General and the NATO Council. The Secretary General of NATO also came to our country -- you know, it's been established before, but -- we've had the opportunity to evaluate these as well. In our last campaign, as in Operation Olive Branch, we gave a note that informed the Syrian regime to the consulates in Istanbul. In this note and other information, we have again stressed what is in the letters, how it has evolved, how it has evolved so far, and what I have just been trying to tell you is that I will come to them from international law -- and we have given them all the information that we have referenced to our rights and international law, and that we are committed to Syrian border integrity and territorial integrity. While we are actively explaining the importance of this operation, and the purpose of it all over the world with our diplomats, both in Ankara, and abroad, we also give the best response to the slander policies or propaganda against Turkey. Our president has met a lot of leaders, and I, as Foreign Minister, have not only met with the foreign ministers of Russia and Iran, but with the foreign ministers of many countries and representatives of international organisations, and we continue our work as Turkish pilgrims, along with our friends. In this case, which we consider a question of Turkish extremism, the international community continues its initiatives with firmness, strength, and strength from our nation. And I want to thank all my colleagues for their efforts. (AK PARTY) Yesterday, we also issued a decision from the Turkish Council to support our operations as chairman of our President in Baku. What is the purpose of Operation Peace Fountain? The aim of Operation Peace Fountain is to neutralize terrorists in the region and ensure our border security. Secondly, to save Turkey's people from the tyranny of terrorists, and to preserve the territorial integrity and political unity of Syria, which I have just stressed, and to help those who return to the land that we will again cleanse of terror, as in the earlier areas, safe and -- underlineing -- to help those who turn back. The operation is based on international law -- I will stress it just now -- and within the framework of our right to self-defense based on the 51st Article of the United Nations and the UN Security Council's decisions on the fight against terrorism so far; 1373 -- and I'm talking about 2001 -- on the basis of decisions 1624, 2170, 2178, 2249 and on the basis of the respect of Syrian territorial integrity and unity. In addition, the Adana Covenant, which we signed on October 20, 1998, provides a legal basis for our country so that we can fight with all kinds of terror from Syrian soil in this country time and time. As in previous operations, the planning and execution of this operation is aimed at only terror elements, taking every precaution necessary to prevent civilian citizens from being harmed. While we show this sensitivity, the terrorist organization attacks civilians. Look, in our country right now, more than 20 of our civilians have been killed by the attack of more than 700 rockets and mortars on this terrorist organization. We also have a large number of wounded.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0003par0029	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, I'll add three more minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0002par0030	Again, it's a pity that those who have not given up on our fight against the terrorist organization so far have remained silent that the terrorist organization has slaughtered our citizens. Members of parliament, as our President has indicated, we will ensure that at least 2 million Syrians return to their homes from the west to the border with Menbic to the Iraq, 444 kilometers to the east, and from the north to the south, 32km to the south. Turkey has no particular purpose to change the demographic of its field of action -- because it is black propaganda in this regard -- on the contrary, our action, as I have just said, will pave the way for the return of Arab, Kurdish, Turkmen and Christian Syrians, who have been displaced by the PYD-YPG, and so on. My dear fellow lawmakers are not allowed to lecture our country on the fight against DEAŞ, the country's failure to fight another terrorist organization against DEAS terrorism, the countries who are refusing to take back foreign terrorist fighters, who are their own citizens, who are willing to allow the PID-YPG to release prisoners in accordance with their interests. The state of the DEAC prisoners is of great importance, of course. We can't let the DEA that we've sacrificed so many of our citizens re-creating again. We can't let that happen. It is fundamentally the most radical solution for all foreign terrorist fighters to get their citizens back to their country, but if they don't, we will take the necessary measures. Our responsibility here is, of course, limited to the DEAS in the field of action, and we can't be responsible for the DEAS in the south of Syria or elsewhere, or for the DEAS that YPG has released or used. There is a human dimension to this work, especially the women and children left behind by the DEAS? We are now conducting a study with international organisations and countries on their way to their country and even their rehabilitation. Dear lawmakers, we have come to a critical stage in our relations with the United States as we persevere in our fight in the field. Despite the common understanding reached between our President and US President Donald Trump in the Syrian context, we regret to inform some US officials, including members of Congress, who have passed the test of time, ignoring our alliance as well as the informal partnership, which they call temporary and tactical. We see that US President Trump is under the influence of an intensive disintegration campaign regarding our operation and he's taking steps against our country in the face of increasing internal political pressure, and you can see that there are progresses in the journeys. We expect them to return as soon as possible from this unfortunate attitude of the U.S. government and Congress, and we will continue our efforts.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you two more minutes to make your commitments. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0002par0037	I'll put you through, Mr. President. Thank you very much. We will, of course, continue to explain to the U.S. government and Congress that Turkey-US relations need to be protected and avoid steps that could further damage our relations, and as I just said, Mr. President Trump is on the phone with our President. On October 9th and October 15th -- yesterday -- we spoke again on the phone with Pompeo. Today, you know, a delegation is coming with the National Security Advisor O'Brien. Likewise, we see Vice President Pence and Pompeo are planning a visit to our country. Of course, in these discussions, we will surely convey all our opinions, our nation's thoughts, and our determination, but I would also like to say that our stance on the unilateral policies and decisions of the United States of America is clear. The protection of our existing national security interests, while all other interviews are subject to further discussion. At a time like this, no sanction or threat is acceptable and can affect our resolve. And we will, of course, give those sanctions a reciprocal response, and we will take the necessary steps. In the end, we have actually launched an action against terrorism, and we thank all of our political parties, our groups, who support this movement. But we also see what we have to fight against. We know that the High Council is also trying to do so. I'd like to say that we, the State Department, are prepared to give any kind of support to our great Assembly, and we have given all kinds of support to NGOs, such as the TOBB, TİSIAAD, CIC, and trade unions who have worked so far on it. And we want to continue our struggle with you at the table so we don't lose our winnings on this field.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0005par0041	Let's open it, to greet. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0002par0043	With these thoughts, I thank you again for your promise, for giving us this opportunity, on behalf of our government. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0006par0047	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now go to speeches on behalf of political party groups. According to Article 59 of the Civil Code, only political parties and political parties without a group can be spoken to by a member of parliament, but I think the Interior Charter has some gaps in the matter. I'm going to use my discretionary powers: I'm going to promise the MPs two or three minutes each of the other political parties that don't have a group. Once they're done talking, if they're in the system, I'll meet their commitment demands. Yes, the first speech was from the Fellowship Congressman Ahmet Kamil Erozan. Here you go, Mr. Erozan. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0007par0054	Mr. President, dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, first of all, may the souls of our fallen martyrs rest in peace and paradise. May God help and help our beloved Mehmet. And to our wounded sons, we pray for immediate healing. Our sorrows are not limited to our lost or wounded children. Because we also find it uncomfortable to observe that the people who run our country are not afraid to be deceived, that they are not tired of making mistakes. As with Operation Firat Shield and Olive Branch, now the Turkish Armed Forces intervention in Operation Peace Fountain has become necessary is nothing more than a revelation that the political and diplomatic efforts that should have been done prior to it were either incomplete or inadequate. We have no wish other than the success of the Turkish Armed Forces in the safe zone. When you come to the north curb of M4 Black Road, the operation has been completed successfully. Even if you say, what will happen to the 65,000-strong PYD/YPG army on the south sidewalk of the road? The political consequences of every action must also be considered. Even if you can't tell me today, there will eventually be other political facts that you'll have to accept, which the citizen will answer to you in the polls. I wish you'd never used troops called the Autonomous Syrian Army or the Syrian National Army in this operation. You probably know better than I do what the soldiers in these troops use as a sign of victory. Unfortunately, we also saw the movement of the left index finger in the media's video and photos on the police who shot Russian Federation Ambassador Karlov. If we know that, so does the world. We can come suddenly one night. Even though it's a deterrent, the people in front of you are tired of listening to this song. They didn't show up, either, but they invited you to their feet on November 13th. I wish Mr. Secretary of State could be here or at the Foreign Affairs Commission at every session in which the Syrian issue was discussed, not today, and that he would have listened to what we had to say. If you don't listen to us, at least listen to history. I don't know if anyone remembers Ihsan Sabri Çalinggil, who was Minister in my years in the State Department. There's no doubt that the deceased is a statesman, so I'll read a sentence from him. "You're invited to an important dinner in the Middle East, but if you're not on the guest list, look at the menu. Your name may have been on the menu! A draft resolution that some EU countries submitted to the United Nations Security Council and aimed at condemning Turkey has been met with the veto of Russia and the United States. Actually, it was a dinner about the Middle East, and you weren't on the guest list. You are pleased with the veto of Russia and the United States. Thank God we survived." You said you couldn't read it. We consult on our common interests in Syria." Russia and the United States, which have made several statements, have sent a message to EU countries: "We will not feed you Turkey. Don't get involved. We'll take care of Turkey. They said. That's where they are today. I don't know what to call it, but you've turned the series of mistakes in foreign policy into a policy called "you're worthy loneliness," which is actually called worthless loneliness today. You're describing the isolation we're in as a story of success. You can't convince anyone with those words. At this point, I was actually going to read a line from Mussolini, but I'm holding back again. We hear you're going to build a prison for ISIS. There's a chance for contractors again. Why do you do prisons? Because you know no one's gonna take them back? We heard about these prisons not now, but six months ago. Then I have to ask: have you accepted Trump's demands? It is true that there will be no truce with terrorists. Not with Assad's regime, because we're not at war with them. Then we must ask: Why are you meeting with Vice President of the United States, who will come to the country tomorrow? And they've already explained why they're here. So name it, and you know who's who, and we know who's who. I'm afraid we're as certain as we are that what we're hearing from power today will be returned as we are. On the other hand, let us ask whether the authors were terrorists or the Syrian state. Who wants to conduct an investigation into the amount of property owned by Mr. Erdogan and his family members, where and how they were acquired within a hundred and twenty days? PYD/YPG or Assad? After summing up what you've done that shouldn't be done, I'd like to make one more point before we get to the things that need to be done. The State Department needs an interior minister, not a foreign minister. Members of this institution who come from a career don't know any competitions in patriotism. There's no concept of overtime, no one asks them what time the State Department officers start working and when they're done, no one can ask them. So don't be rude to these brothers and sisters, don't joke about what I'm saying. "The most successful ambassadors are from outside the Ministry." You can't imagine the destruction of your sentence inside the Ministry. What you've appointed from outside the ministry, unfortunately, is a title to the newspapers. Stop being so mean. I'm not saying this to protect you. I'm saying this to ask patience for my brothers in the profession. Looking at the future and solution of the Syrian issue from this point on, it is possible to briefly sum up what needs to be done as "doing the opposite of what the power of the EC PARTY does." I would like to sum up the basic issues of a quick, comprehensive and lasting solution we need in Syria: the sovereignty of Syria, territorial integrity and political unity should be respected, the results of the Constitutional Commission and then democratic elections followed by democratic elections and good neighbourly relations with the government that will come to power by the free will of the Syrian people. The international solution process should not only be watched closely, but should work to ensure that its results, not only for Syria, but also for our bilateral relations with this country and for the region. At this time, diplomatic relations must be restored without any prerequisite, leaving everything to be carried out by the power of power in Syria, creating means of non-intermediation dialogue for urgent issues on the agenda. By not interfering with the internal affairs of any country, a unconditional co-operation on the throne of the Joint Co-operation Agreement on Terror and Terror Organizations signed on 21 December 2010 in the fight against all terrorist groups in Syria's privacy should be developed. Once you sit at the table with Assad, if you say the Covenant of Adana, Assad will call you the Treaty of December 21, 2010. And you made that deal, not just another power. Under that text is your predecessor's signature. The project, which does not correspond with our national interests in the region, and the policies envisioned so that its visions do not fall into action from the quad, should be implemented to include Syria, for example, regional co-operation models that will include the Eastern Mediterranean. We must accept all citizens of Syria as our brothers and sisters, regardless of religion, sect or ethnic identity, as long as they are not related to terrorism. However, we hope that the positive discrimination that we show to our Turkmen brothers is also understood. Economic and social support packages, which will facilitate and even encourage the return of Syrian and other refugees in our country in five years, should be put into bilateral and international fast implementation. The areas where the EU's financial resources are being used should also be reviewed with that understanding. The solutions to all terrorist organizations should be found within Syrian territory if they cannot provide the return of members of terrorist organisations and relatives from around the world and most of them from Turkey to the countries they come from. It's from us. Hopefully, you'll listen to what we'll be saying not just today, but in the coming period. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0008par0073	Thank you, Mr. Erozan. The talks now take place in Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0009par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, and I salute your honorable committee. First of all, I'd like to thank our Foreign Minister, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeant, who informed our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkish Armed Forces launched in northern Syria on the eighth day of Operation Peace Fountain, aimed at eliminating terrorism, establishing peace and security. The operation between Tel Abyad and Rasulayn, located east of Fırat, begins at about 120km wide and 30 to 35km deep, allowing an important security generation facility. Thus, the areas that have been wiped out of terror in Operation Olive Branch and the Firat Shield are combined with the Peace Fountain region. With this line, an important step will be taken against the threat of terrorism against our country. Dear lawmakers, since the beginning of the operation, some countries, particularly Western countries, have been receiving threats of sanctions and calls for a halt to this operation. Our goal is to eliminate the terrorist elements that threaten security from one side and protect Syrian territorial integrity and bring the Syrians from our country back to their homes. We believe that you now understand that the West will not be able to stop Operation Fountain of Peace. They are trying as hard as possible to prevent Turkey from forming a security zone along its southern borders. That's why they're blackmailing us with DEAŞ, offering to negotiate between the terrorist organization and Turkey. It's an immoral and cheeky offer, dear lawmakers. We can clearly see what America is going through these days. In this regard, it is important that our President's statement on October 13th: "This area is 32km deep and from 444km west to the east in a fight against terrorism, and this area can be cleared and this area can be put to rest. We are helped to remind you once again of the security generation he drew from Afrin to Kandil. In order to minimize threats to our country, the crescent-shaped security belt must be provided and executed immediately, which will include Afrin (Afrin) at the west end and Kandil (Kandil) at the east end. From global environments, without wasting time and permission, it is taken on a national mobilization and initiative to render the wicked and low-profile plot of the nation and state line ineffective. On this occasion, I would like to announce to the world once again that this operation is an operation aimed at the elimination of terrorist organizations. PKK/YPG and DAEŞ are two anti-human terrorist groups, and Operation Peace Fountain is being held against them. Thus, all the people who live in the region seek to free Turkmen, Arab, Kurdish, Ezidi, Muslim, and Christian groups from YPG and DEAŞ from their tyranny, from their oppression and persecution. Turkey is right, it is legal and it conducts a legitimate operation. In particular, the PKK and YPG are the largest Kurdish and Turkish enemy movement to attack journalists, to slaughter our citizens in front of their homes, to target our citizens with mortar bullets since the beginning of the operation. Those who claim that civilians have been killed by lying and lying have not said a word about the nine-month-old Muhammad Omar baby, whom the PKK/YPG has slaughtered. And their humanity is plastic. Dear lawmakers, this operation is self-defense against terrorist organizations. We defend our country. That's what it's all about. If other countries with soldiers in the Damascus regime, the United States, Russia, France, Germany and Syria had been able to do their jobs properly and take into account Turkey's sensitivities and end these terrorist organizations, there would have been no need for the Firat Shield, neither for the olive branch nor for the Peace Fountain. These countries, let alone fighting terrorism, have used these organizations as subcontractors for their own projects and continue to use them. But if any of you still don't want to see this truth, don't let them cast a shadow, we don't want any more favors. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] The PKK/YPG terrorist group has been using a low-level attack tactic since the beginning of the operation. They're launching mortar attacks on our border cities from children's parks, churches, places of worship. Their goal is to hide behind innocent people and make our army's response to these points a propaganda tool. Thankfully, the action is being carried out with great care, with a strategic mind, as well as your ability to set up in the field. As we did not fall into the trap of the YPG (YPG), there is not a single building that has been destroyed in the city centers, as has been in the Fırat Shield and Olive branch since the beginning of the operation. On the contrary, Turkey shows the most human and civilized behavior to civilians. But the terrorist organization is slaughtering civilians, our citizens. Mehmet's terrorists cleaned houses, street by street. You'll understand the value of this sensitivity when you compare it with what the U.S. government did in Rakka, the Damascus regime in East Guta. They've been coming at us with a DEA threat since the beginning of the operation. Anti-Turkey thesis refers to the end of the DEAS, which says: "Operation of the Fountain of Peace will disrupt the fight against DEAŞ." In fact, these reasons are the confessions and proofs that DEAŞ was ruled by them as well. The PKK/YPG, supposedly, is fighting them and holding them back, is a counter-referencing on its lie. In other words, a terrorist organization is being legitimized with another terrorist organization. First: Turkey is the most consistent country in Syria that has ever fought the DEAS. Turkey is the most damaged country of all. Turkey is the one who struck the DEAŞ with the biggest blow by neutralizing 3,500 DEAŞ people at the Fırat Shield. Those who want to stop Turkey's operation with a DEAC card should not wonder; we have crushed the head of the DEAŞ at the Fırat Shield, and if we meet, we will crush it again. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Second: The dye of the alleged fight by PKK/YPG is now spilled. DeASELs are being released from YPG-controlled prisons. He has been released and kidnapped from PKK/YPG-controlled prisons of 785 DEASIS, which has been publicized. So run to the rabbit, catch the hound. They're using the drill. However, the YPG's struggle with DEASH is no more than the makeup of an imperialist project. What is this project? They want to establish a PKK/YPG terror state in the second Israeli line north of Syria. This is why the YPG was placed in the land that was cleared of the DEA. Operation Peace Fountain is burying this imperialist project in history and Middle East, along with subcontractors. Turkey is destroying the terrorist seesaw played in Syria. It's hard. It'll ruin the game, gentlemen. This game is broken, and Turkey is the one who broke the game. That is the reason for the reactions to Turkey. Dear MPs, threats and sanctions from the United States must be opened in a separate parentheses. The threat of sanctions from across the ocean has been embodyed by the statement that sanctions will be imposed on our 3 ministers and 2 ministries and that talks on a $100 billion trade agreement will be halted. From now on, they'll be making other sanctions.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0010par0096	Go ahead, Mr. Akçay, I'll add two more minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0009par0097	Whoever's got what's coming, Turkey won't be able to bring back any power from its righteous and legitimate struggle. (MHP and AK PARTY) We are not afraid or afraid of sanctions, threats, blackmail. On the other hand, Twitter knight President Trump mentions three options that include various sanctions in one of his Twitter messages. We report to Mister Trump, and to the world that there are no three choices for us, there are two choices: the will or the death! (MHP and AK PARTY) Whatever happens in the north of Syria, we're determined, we're united by the state-nationals; we're not afraid, we're cowering, we're in the square; we're fighting seven duvels yesterday; we're still like that. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Dear lawmakers, no sentence that comes out of the mouths of some people regarding Operation Peace Fountain cannot be seen as a personal opinion. These days, those who view the operation as a war and as an unjust war are partners in this anti-government and nation. Even as I support the operation, I do not want to be disseminated. I am not comfortable with my language. But, but, but... we are carefully monitoring the position that those who call it... will take in the face of these developments. As I end my speech, I would like to address our heroes who have successfully carried out Operation Peace Fountain with the statements of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk: ▪ No army in the world has ever met a soldier whose heart is purer and stronger than yours. You have the yeast of every victory, the greatest portion of every victory, your faith, your faith, your obedience to the command, your pure heart, which no fear can deter. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0011par0104	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Hakuhan Oluçta is now speaking. Here you go, Mr. Oluç. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. The Justice and Development Party has a stable stability to make mistakes in foreign policy, a government that is extremely irresponsible in foreign policy. We're dealing with a mindset out there, bullying over diplomacy, replacing rational state intelligence with foolishness, going to war with internal government accounts. So you've come to the point of saying war in the land, war in the war, instead of peace in the land.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0013par0111	Terror, terror!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0112	As of 2011, the period of zero problems of this government is over and the period of problems with everyone has begun. Neosmanism has given rise to the desire and desire to dominate the peoples of the region. But when the people of the region did not adopt that sovereignty, the architect of the matter made great mistakes and drove the country and himself into considerable loneliness. After that, the policy of multiplying friends did not last very long. You know how you say that defeat is a growing victory? Your defeat is a growing decline. It is our efforts that you should not lead the country and the community into great suffering while you are going down. With an attempt to invade northern and eastern Syria, today the entire world has taken a stand against the Justice and Development Party. Not only one state, but all international institutions and organisations, which are members of Turkey, are also opposed to this war policy. See, yesterday, the IPU Association of International Parliaments -- decided yesterday by 73 votes against 677, condemning Turkey. You're like the driver on the wrong highway. When we say no to the occupational initiative on this platform, hop shields, look what the countries of the world say in English that you're doing this: they're saying "invasion" in terms of "occupation," they say "incursion" in terms of the concepts they use, so choose which ones you want to enter, which ones you want.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0014par0114	Anti-terrorism.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0115	First Numan Survivor, finally we go to war. He said, "You used the first word of war." President Erdoğan said, "Hopefully this conquest will become a mujasser." Your newspapers and televisions took over here every day, and we took over here. They're throwing out their headlines. Now, going to a war-tired country with a new conflict before the fire is out, so going by gas is, in the least, evil, and in reality, you don't know yourself. Have you ever considered what a match you lit in a dynamite warehouse like the Middle East would lead to? No, you didn't, because the important thing for you is not to lose power. You are basing the 51st article of the United Nations Condition. The 51st article of the United Nations Condition recognizes the right to defend when attacking member states. Were there any attacks on Turkey until the invasion attempt was launched? No.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0015par0118	600 mortars, 600 of them.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0120	So this is not a legitimate defense situation, it's an attack war. Therefore, it must be stopped.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0016par0121	Turkish Armed Forces are fighting terrorism across the border.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0122	Again and again: Syria belongs to the inhabitants of Syria. First of all, any attempt that violates the will of these people, every attack is unjust and unlawful. The deepening of war and occupation policies is the continuation of the human tragedy that will take years for the destruction policies to kick in. In this sense, as we say from the very beginning, forces in Syrian territory must leave without the permission and demand of the sovereign state and its power. The Syrian people must decide their future and the new social contract of the democratic Syrian regime together and negotiate. Peace and negotiations are the only valid way. The steps must be taken to build a democratic regime on a strong local democracy within the territorial integrity of Syria. I'm talking about a regime that is open to social understanding, democracy and pluralism, which all ethnic, social, religious and cultural formations express themselves through their institutions, respecting the territorial integrity and human rights of Syria. Turkey must support such steps with all its resources, make it easier for its neighbour to build its future in peace; not make it difficult. Those who don't know the terrible destruction of war don't appreciate peace. But the most weakened peace and negotiation policy today is the most powerful weapon we have. You're already angry with those who say peace, peace. It's because you're afraid that this artificial war that you've started to maintain your own power will come to an end.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0017par0127	Let's call the PKK, let's call the YPG, peace.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0128	You make people suffer because your power is failing. It's a crime to defend war, not peace. Article 20 of the International Convention on Civilisation and Political Rights of the United Nations states that all kinds of war propaganda is prohibited by the law. Those who oppose war and seek peace are not guilty and cannot. Today, Turkey is being driven by power to such a state of war hysteria that only peace is being made a direct cause of investigation, prosecution. The government expects the entire community to share in its crimes, but we oppose it because we know it will not benefit the country and the community. The steps and plans to make demographic modifications on Syrian soil are an international crime. President Erdoğan says he will abandon his homes from all sides of Syria and place refugees who have come to Turkey. Clearly, the safety zone belt he described on the United Nations bench with maps will be a seatbelt, consistent with the understanding of Hafiz Assad's Arab belt. Playing with the population structure of a geography itself falls into the category of crime in international law. Article 49 of the 1949 Geneva Convention, where Turkey is also a party, is requested to be violated. Article 49 says: Whether it's occupied or not, it's forbidden as a federal or as a mass on the land of another state, for any reason, to transport algebras or prisoners. Your authority aims to openly relocate Kurds who live north and east of Syria. As of October 13th, the United Nations announced that 130,000 people had to leave their homes, and local data showed that the number was 275 thousand. Once again, North and East Syria are a region where more than 4 million people live, where there is a social and economic life, not a place without people. To force demography to change somewhere means to plant the seeds of future conflicts. Al Qaeda, an enemy of humanity, and Al Nusra, will never be accepted as a result of acting together with the gangs, raising ISIS again and activating it. Each step is not only for Iraq and Syria, but also for Turkey and other countries. The first support for the conquest you launched came from the Syrian Al Qaeda (A) Al Nusra (A) from the current Committee Tahrir Damascus, and the first attack by ISIS was a bomb attack on civilians in Kamişlı. Al-Qaeda's initial support statement is not in vain, for he finds a new habitat. From day one, ISIS cells, sleeping cells, began to move and target cities. We also need to remember the transparency of ISIS, S.O.S.O. gangs. We want to remind you that ISIS is not only in Syria, it is not in Iraq, it is within us, it is within the borders of this country with hundreds of sleeping cells. Diyarbakır, Ankara, Suruç massacres and other bombs being detonated are always ISIS's work; you must remember them. We now take responsibility for the ISIS people in the field of operations." he says. At least 10,000 prisoners, their families in 60-70,000 camps, like a bomb pulled out of a pin. This is a great danger, and we're warning you one more time about it. Another point is that hostility towards Kurdish existence, to the use of Kurdish political and administrative rights is not a solution, but a policy of irresolvency. The power clearly acts on the mentality of Kurdish hostility.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0018par0135	Wrong, wrong...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0136	The ruling speakers say we don't fight against the Kurds. They say we don't fight against the Kurds, but the Kurds don't. You're objecting to Kurds' gains everywhere. In northern and eastern Syria, and in the regional administration of Iraq Kurdistan. During the referendum, you have set up any offensive rhetoric, you have threatened, we will close the doors on you, you will find no food, no clothing." You said. If Kurd has the law of rights, the Turk will find peace, and Fars will find peace, and the Arab will find peace, and everyone will find peace. This is the way to live in peace, in equality, in common country and in democratic republic. In order for Kurds to have no status in Syria, Turkey is acting with jihadists, ISIS plus gangs. Is that possible? For decades, the rioting has been a source of conflict. Until now, Turkey had a Kurdish problem, now the Middle East has a Kurdish problem, and now the world has a Kurdish problem. Today, the world is discussing the Kurdish issue, discussing it with the European Union, with the United Nations, with NATO. Over and over, we called for this problem to be resolved in this country.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0019par0138	Here, I'll add two more minutes, Mr. Oluç, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0139	Instead of a democratic and peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem, insisting on a solution to war makes the problem more difficult. This issue should be discussed not in the midst of war and tears, but in this Parliament through dialogue. It happens to our lost children in this war, our exhausted resources. It's all because of power ambition and Kurdish hostility. The solution is not in Washington or Moscow. With Kurds living on their borders, a mindset that does not reconcile with the Kurds living in neighbouring borders produces unresolvedness. This land, this region, is enough for all of us, not for fighting, but for partnership and peace. This Assembly has a historical duty to establish dialogue. The support of the wrong policies of power in this Parliament is only voluntary or reluctant, and only serves the desire to conduct it today to be a force above the will of this Assembly. What is this situation, not a mortgage on the will of the House? The democratic struggle against the dangerous and threatening environment, which is driven by power in Turkey and the country and society, is legitimate. Every step of the way to turn the Kurdish, Turkish and Arab people against each other is a crime. Let me say one last word and let me finish: we will never accept the destruction of the achievements of Kurds and the peoples of Northern Syria in an invasion attempt and create a demographic change.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0020par0141	Anti-terrorism.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0012par0142	We will continue to be determined followers of our legitimate democratic solution and peace struggle, both in our country and in our neighbors. So we say, let's consolidate equality and brotherhood. Come, let's all make peace. It's our call to anyone who opposes the death, displacement of people regardless of party, opinion, or position. We have set out on this road, so that people don't die, that peace may come to this land, and no matter what happens, we will never turn back on it, and we believe that peace and peace will eventually win the people's demand. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0021par0146	Thank you, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0022par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0021par0148	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0022par0149	Mr. President, Mr. Saruhan Bey is the enemy of the ruling Kurds as he speaks on the stand. He made statements and made a speech at the altar.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0023par0150	That's what they say.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0021par0151	I'll give you my word on your position, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0022par0152	If you'll excuse me, it's an open taunt, so...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0021par0153	There's going to be a speech on behalf of your group. If you'd like to explain your position, it'd be better. Because the next speaker is on behalf of your group. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0022par0157	Mr. President, thank you. The language where power is the enemy of Kurds is a propaganda language. The AK PARTY is being voted from all sides of Turkey. Kurds also vote for the EC PARTY. There are also people in the AK PARTY who are very diverse in Kurds, who are connected to Kurds, but you define Kurdish in the form of people around a certain political view, and if you look at it that way, and you see it through a political competition basis, you get that kind of understanding in nature. That's the first one. Second, it is a crime to turn the Kurds, Arabs and Turks against each other in the region. Who's committing this crime? The PKK and YPG are committing this crime. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, in the region, we don't see them as representatives of us Kurds; terrorism, terrorist organizations don't represent anyone. There's a famous saying: "Free cheese is only in the mousetrap." Now they have a free cheese in front of these terrorist organizations, 30,000 trucks of free weapons. What mousetrap is this? The YPG can enter the mousetrap itself, but it wants to get Kurds, Arabs and Turks in the region into the same rat trap, and Turkey is disrupting the game. So we're not going to play this game. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] It's terrorist organizations who commit the crime. They are terrorist organizations in this region who want to destroy the peace, peace, free will of the people. It's against terrorist organizations with minds, on the side of freedom, on the side of peoples, on the side of peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0024par0166	You will respect the will of the people.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0025par0167	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. It is now his turn to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Quickie. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0026par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today we are having a rare meeting that we should have had a long time ago. At the time of Turkey's extraordinary action, the Foreign Minister arrives and strives to enlighten our Grand Assembly. In fact, we would expect such a meeting to happen long before such an operation would begin, and we would like to wish it, because we're all making decisions in this Parliament, and we're all thinking about Turkey's interests, and we'd like to know in advance what kind of action plan the government is in before such an important operation begins. After it's too late, after Turkey is alone, we don't think it's any use coming to us and making any kind of statement here. I want to talk about being alone in the world. Mr. Secretary just said that our very dear friends of the State Department -- and I salute them for coming from the same background -- all my dear friends -- have had a diplomatic attack and have achieved a great diplomatic success. I have no doubt that this effort, of course, is an extremely valuable effort, but at this point, Turkey has been more alone in the world than ever before. Last week there was a NATO Parliamentary Assembly meeting in London. The parliamentarians of NATO member states have all criticised Turkey and used statements condemning Turkey. They described Turkey's operation as an invasion and an illegal, illegal incident against international law.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0027par0178	That's what they told Cyprus.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0026par0179	If Turkey had been able to use diplomacy effectively before entering this operation, we would not have faced these accusations. Look, when I say alone in the world, I'm not just talking about loneliness from allies or NATO countries. The Arab league is among the countries condemning Turkey. Do you know why the Arab League is important? Turkey has applied for membership in the Arab League in its foreign policy in order to act with countries in the region, Middle Eastern countries and Arab countries and to form a tie, and has been accepted as an observer country and held meetings together for a long time, but today the Arab League heads regional organisations that condemn Turkey. Even Palestine, an important element of the Justice and Development Party's Middle Eastern policy, is acting among the countries condemning Turkey in the decision of the Arab League. You know what that means? The question is: Is it the result of us leaving the Palestinians in the Middle East, the most important country in the Middle East that we care about and strive to solve, the most important country in the Middle East, and the people that we see as the people, that they support this decision in the Arab League as well? Is it because we failed to deploy our consul general in Jerusalem that we are faced with such loneliness? Is it possible, since we can't maintain the relationship with Israel properly, that when the ambassadors are drawn together, we don't want your consul general here in Jerusalem. Is it because of the way he led them to say that Palestine is alone today and has been among the countries condemning Turkey in this way? That's a question to ask, dear friends. We've been working on Africa for years. It has become so clear to us that we see the African expansion in terms of quantitative rather than qualitative, that we constantly brag about how many embassies we've opened in African countries, but among the countries condemning Turkey are African countries; only Somalia Turkey has supported it. The country that already supports Turkey is not even read because so many countries around the world condemn Turkey, and those supporting countries are so little and so quiet that they are so quiet. A diplomatic activity based on diplomacy has been carried out, resulting in Turkey's extraordinary isolation. I listened carefully to what the Minister said about relations with the United States of America. I heard and listened specifically about the phone calls between the President of the United States and the President of Turkey. There have been some promises mentioned here, but I wonder if the President of the United States has been asked in any way about Mazlum Kobane, who made a phone call to him as the leader of the NYD/YPG. We should all be wondering that. If Trump is meeting with Mr. Erdoğan and is making a phone call with Mazlum Kobane before him, I think it's a matter of some sort to be asked of the United States of America for a reason or even a reason, that should be condemned directly. I'd like to bring this to your attention. Relations with ISIS: Why did you accept the tender for ISIS's responsibility? During the talks with Trump, were you not told that the responsibility for ISIS is now yours? I've been told. If that's what it's said, then why did you show such enthusiasm? You said that one of the prisons in the areas where we controlled them today said that the ISIS prisoners had been found, but when they arrived, you said that no one had been there and that all ISIS people had been released and had escaped. In fact, it is important to ask: Since you have taken responsibility for ISIS and the fight against ISIS with such enthusiasm, how will you find them, and how will you capture them? How will you fulfill your responsibility for those who have not fled and who are still there, who you claim to have taken responsibility for? How are you going to keep them under arrest there? If they need to answer to the law in any way or answer for their guilt, will you take responsibility for them, or will you cooperate with the Syrian government there? And when you say the Syrian government, of course, it's important to stress that the Justice and Development Party and the ruling government do not have a Syrian policy. Unfortunately, there is no policy in Turkey on good neighbourly relations, as there is no policy on Syrians who have been temporarily protected from Syria to Turkey, and there is no step to make a good living with the Syrian people. If such a thing had happened, then it would have been focused on the Adana Covenant, which we had been talking about for a long time, and it would have been communicated with Syria, Damascus, very clearly, through the Adana Covenant. There was no such dialogue, but when it was imposed from the outside, when it was imposed from Russia, the Adana Covenant was discovered, not because we told it, but because others told it, and it was said that the operation was being carried out based on the Adana Covenant. Based on the Adana Covenant, there was a situation in Syria that brought two armies against each other to fight terrorism. Did Russia need to mediate for this? If there was an Adana Covenant, and Turkey had the opportunity to use it and solve the problem in Syria if it had a dialogue with Damascus, why hasn't it been used so far? As for Russia's mediation, it is said that the Syrian army entered Münbic and was actually welcomed by the arrival of the Syrian army in Münbic because it was already Syria's own land. Dear lawmakers, you have to pay attention to the concepts. What is the formation of the Syrian national army, which is alleged to have been acting with the Turkish Armed Forces? If such a Syrian militia and Turkey are acting together, why is the formation of some terrorists, some Jihadists, Al Nusra, Al Qaeda-related groups called the Syria militia, and why is Turkey operating with them on Syrian soil? But when the Syrian army has taken Münbic, he is respected, too. Which is the national army and which is the Syrian army that Turkey should be dealing with? Finally, I would like to remind you that the United Nations Security Council will hold a meeting today regarding Turkey's operation against Syria, and there is a good chance that Turkey will call for an end to this operation, but at the same time, a call came from the United Nations, saying: "How much do you control these groups that you're acting on together? How much do you control?" How much control can you get? How do you control all the massacres they've done in places they've been in, and how do you keep records of them? How will you answer the day after tomorrow when you're asked to account for these from the United Nations? There's no explanation for any of this.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0028par0188	Go ahead, Mr. Quickie. I'll add two minutes to your speech.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0026par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. I said in my speech that Turkey should have a Syrian policy, that the Justice and Development Party is not a Syrian policy. The Republican People's Party has a Syrian policy. On 28 September, we held an International Syrian Conference in Istanbul. I'm saying internationally because there were international participants. We've sent an invitation to the Minister, and we've sent an invitation to the Justice and Development Party officials, but no one has been gracious enough to come to this meeting. As a result of that meeting, I would advise you to read carefully the homeowner summary we published. I would also advise you to read carefully a document published by the Republican People's Party on October 7th concerning Syrian policy. If there's a Syrian policy that really needs to happen, the Republican People's Party is ready and ready to take over. He also shared his document on Syrian policy with the public and Turkey, and if you read it, then you'll form a proper Syrian policy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0029par0194	Thank you, Mr. Quickie. The seat of speech is on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the Slap MP Özlem Yürük. Here you go, Mr. Rich. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0030par0199	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, Mr. Secretary, I salute you all. I find the information our Secretary of State has given us very valuable. Before this action begins, I would like to remind our General Assembly that our National Minister of Defence has visited political party groups and shared information about the operation before and after. Now, of course, when you're the last speaker, yes, you have the texts, but when we listen with you, I prefer to talk to you in person. When I look at this, I wonder why we keep calling ourselves criminals. Why are we always to blame? Why is Turkey always guilty? I see we don't have to go too far, and this war has been going on for eight years. One day, not two days, but a war that's been going on for eight years. A million people are dead, no one cares; nobody cares but Turkey.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0031par0202	Who started it?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0032par0203	War?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0030par0204	I'm talking about the war in Syria, the civil war.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0033par0205	Who fought this war?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0030par0206	If you'll just let me handle the identification, I'll continue. 12 million people moved inside themselves, 12 million. Six million people have left their country. Four million people came to Turkey. There are Arabs among the people who come to Turkey, there are Turks, there are Ezidians, there are Christians, there are non-religious people, there are 350,000 Kurds. So when you look at it as a result, there's so many people who have to leave their homes, from those who live, from those who run, from those who have to leave their homes, but the world is not interested in them at all, but it's interested in just one structure, while dealing with Kurds, but it puts it into a certain definition. So if you're PYD, if you're PKK, if you're in YPG, you're in YPG; if you're in AK PARTY, you're not in CHP; if you're in CHP; if you're in the National Movement Party, you're not, you're not in PARTI; only if you enter this description, it means something to you, and it means something to you from the West. I mean, what values does the PYD make of Western values, the way women from the PKK take pictures of themselves, the way they're on that cover? What makes them defensive on Western values? Now, when we look at it like this, I think we've been unfair to ourselves, each and every one of us. Once the world has a problem, it has a problem. What we see is very large -- NATO, the United Nations -- these are the organizations that are formed to bring peace to the world, to bring peace to the world in the wake of the wars of this century -- they just want good for themselves and for themselves. Turkey's claim is that we don't just want good for ourselves, we want good for the world, that the world is greater than five, that we want the whole world to be good. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, when we look at the 21st century, we talk about Africa, and we all see that we're going. My dear countries, they have everything, they're in great poverty. Madagascar is a paradise of the world, no way, no water, no toilet, no smell, no hunger, whose colony? The colony of France. You see, another country, Senegal, who colonized it? The colony of France, the colony of Portugal. And he's still got his hands on you after he's gone. The colonial understanding continues to haunt the world. Now, this colonial understanding has taken on something else. What's happening is these terrorist organizations, international terrorist organizations. These terrorist organizations have different names, they have different identities, they look different, some are using Islamic terminology, and some are looking at whom I am the continuation of left-wing organisations. He'll probably put the bait the fish likes when he's rounding people up, fishing, of course. He uses terminology, using those languages, to capture that hearty conversation, and he prefers young people, and no matter what happens, you're dealing with a monstrous terrorist organization, a terrorist organization that only makes its own interests worthless, a criminal terrorist organization. Al-Qaeda is no different from DEAS. It's identical. So, how was Al Qaeda born, did she come to Afghanistan by herself, flapping her wings? Afghanistan built Al Qaeda to seize and legitimize its occupation; from there it brought al-Qaeda to Iraq, followed by Syria; this form was not enough; it created a new form; it scared the world to death, and most of all it hurt us; it happened in hundreds of actions within us, hundreds of people lost their lives, when we woke up on New Year's Eve. Now, when we look from here, we see a world that's strange, but it's trying to clean up terror with another terrorist organization, in the face of this bombing created by these terrorist organizations. So we can't build a non-terror peace? How is it that in order to get rid of the DEAS, America legitimizes the YPG, gives up 30,000 trucks of weapons, and we say, "Where did we go wrong?" Are we making a mistake? This approach to the world that made the mistake, this unchanging colonial approach. We say, "I don't know if words mean anything: no matter who the terrorist organization is, no matter what identity he uses, no matter what religion he uses, we strongly reject all terrorist organizations and stand against them." We're fighting our own soldier. We've been telling the whole world for eight years, Mr. Secretary of State, talking to Trump, talking to him, talking to him, which means nothing, talking on the phone, talking on the phone, the gentleman wakes up in the morning, throwing a whole other thing at him in the evening, talking back to what other tweet. When it's looked like this, I'd like to point out that in this kind of approach, what we're going to do is we're going to do it. So the four political parties in this parliament said: "Yes, I have objections, but I am here in spite of it." Because you see the truth, there is no other way, we have to deal with it ourselves, because the issue of America is not the matter of Turkey. He's got other places to protect him. When Israel is down there, does America care about us, take us to the fort, do they have any concern about our future? The point is that there is no country called Afghanistan today, Pakistan has been devastated, there is no country called Iraq -- one way or another, in a country with Saddam -- there is no country anymore. So we're going to wait eight years for a day where everyone will come, negotiate with terrorist organizations, and make peace, to protect that 911-mile border of our country? So you want us to wait for a day that won't come. Turkey has to, Turkey has to go there because Turkey has to, and it's very clear that it's right to prevent terrorism, wherever it comes from. It's called the PKK, you're going down, it's called YPG. Let no one fool anyone, and we must say that America is thousands of miles away, our hundred paces, if we walk, not miles, meters, right at the bottom of our noses. The dead are our brothers, some of the families are already living within our borders, our brothers are losing their lives, and what's seen is that if we don't do something, they'll carry the same thing back to our country, the same thing. We're already getting the nuance of this in some of the talks. Here's our Minister, who, legally speaking, has the foundations of this, the 51st Amendment in the United Nations, the Adana Covenant in 2009, which actually has a legal basis in Turkey. So, based on all of this, Turkey is using its right to self-defense, doing what it has to do legally. Are we alone? Yes, we're alone, but don't look, loneliness is an honorable business. (AK PARTY) Leading countries are alone. That's the fate of it. If you leave, if you succeed, there'll be a lot of people behind you. Oh, you're saying: "Why did Palestine do this?" My dear friends, we don't decide who will support us and who will be behind us while we decide on something. It's a matter of our heart, of our faith, of Palestine. (EC PARTY applause) Not because of what Palestine did, but because we believe, we support Palestine and defend its rights, its law, is one of our essential values. Now, I'd like to tie this up by saying: In the end, Turkey is there for a specific purpose, and as soon as possible, it will complete its mission to protect the rights of civilians, its law, and it will come back from there. I'm a graduate of Istanbul University Law School. The day this operation began, the mosques read the conquests. Yesterday at our General Assembly, we had to hear statements about the Conquest Process, what's going on? What's going on? Istanbul University -- I felt the need to reminisce that morning -- wrote two verses from the Conquest Surah on the door I entered every day. On the right-hand side it says, "Conquest" -- I looked it up again in the dictionary, and I want to read it again -- doesn't open it, "Conquest" means guidance. When a person begins a job, he reads the Book of Conquest, so that his way may be opened, and his heart may be opened, and that he may walk in peace, and that God may, by His leave, prevail over the believers. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) It says here...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0034par0220	Go ahead, Mr. Rich, I'll add two more minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0030par0221	It says on the right hand: 'We have given you a clear victory.' On the left hand: 'God help you with a mighty victory.' I ask you now: 'Let a soldier who walks to witness reads it not, and why should he read it?' Why should he not seek God's help first? First, of course, he'll read the Conquest, and then he'll grow stronger. So may Allah make clear to our people the meaning of the Conquest, all together. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] And after that, I see conversations with our soldiers who go there, and they're so happy that they know what they're doing, that they're self-inflicted. And I know that soldiering is perceived as a bit of a man's job, but while this land is gaining freedom, Mustafa Kemal has won it with his freedom, while women have fought in this land as well as men. Women didn't just send their children to the front, and they went, and they fought for this land, and so did today. Don't think it's just men; women are behind this case until the end. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And I'd like to tie it to you, my dear friends: Mothers -- and I'm the mother of three boys, and it's a very difficult job -- they always pray after they give birth to their children, what do they say? Good luck to the city, good luck to the nation, good for the country, good for the nation, and good for the nation when the day comes! Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0035par0229	Thank you, Mr. Rich. Yes, speaking on behalf of groups is complete.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0036par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0035par0232	Here you go, Mr. Head...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0036par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, in our Parliament, an inequal approach to non-group parties continues. Thank you, you've just announced that you're going to promise non-group parties their seats, but I still think we need to get justice, so I made that promise. Dear friends, today we have to learn from the press that the Foreign Minister will speak in Congress. The House doesn't have that kind of formal notification of non-group parties. So, after Mr. Secretary began speaking, we tried to fulfill our right to make the request to make a statement expressed in Article 59 of the Civil Code, but in this case, we were faced with an answer, which can only be promised to one party without a group, which we think is an inequal approach. We don't have the right to ask for a word in advance on something we haven't been informed of. Although the ruling party has no representative group, it is an inequality that those who sit in opposition can't speak while they can. I'd like to ask not to discriminate against the Regents, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0238	Thank you. Mr. Islam, are you going to say something different or the same objection?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0038par0240	This is the minor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0241	Okay, so I'm... you want to talk?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0038par0242	I'd like to speak from the bench, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0243	That's different, I'll get to that. Dear MPs, the objection expressed by Mr. Erkan Prime Minister is justified. According to Article 59, one of the lawmakers who does not have a group is promised for five minutes. It is incumbent on the acting council's authority to consider and accept non-responsibility demands. The information that was given to me before I opened the merger has been complicated, information has been vague, vague, and confusing. I've been informed that there's been a situation where Mr. Destic has already submitted an application to the Speakership, but I've seen that after he's opened the merger, he's got a motion to make a statement. It may be the negligence of the officers or something else, so I'll put it aside for now; it's a matter of the internal functioning of the House. To eliminate this confusion, I can promise no one, because there is no demand for a word, and I can promise one member of the party, who does not have the entire group, to the stand for five minutes. I think the House is a place of speech and discussion. So that's my appreciation...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0247	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0248	Mr. Destici, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0249	I've made a written request of the law. You're not talking straight.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0250	You wait, I'll finish.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0251	You're not talking straight.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0252	Mr. Destici, I promise you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0253	The accusations are not true, and your speech is not right.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0254	You wait... you wait...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0255	I'm here because it's a special day.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0037par0256	Mr. Destici, I'm speaking as Acting Speaker of the House, so you wait there.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0257	I don't want words from you, I don't want words from you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0040par0258	Be respectful, be quiet, be quiet.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0259	I don't want to talk about you. I personally made a personal request to write to the law on my behalf.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0041par0260	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm asking my friends in Law and Decisions: has there been an application for a non-responsibility request before the merger opens here? No.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0039par0261	We have an application.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0041par0262	The first request arrived here at 2:30. So I'm going to ask you again, this is how I'm going to carry out the 59th Amendment. Also, Mr. Destici, according to Article 60, no one can speak without a word from the President. This is the custom of the Civil Code. At the moment, this Parliament operates according to a Civil Charter, and this Civil Charter was also carried out in accordance with the Constitution. I have an obligation and a duty to govern according to the Constitution and the Civil Code. That's why I'm going to take your promises now. I'm going to make a five-minute commitment to the non-group party members who demand word. Yes, I've received your commitment demands. Mr. Gültekin Uysal, MP of Afyonkarahisar, I give you my word from the bench for five minutes. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you go, Mr. Softy, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0042par0271	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I salute you all. On an important agenda, we're considering following the presentation of our esteemed member of our government, our esteemed Foreign Minister to our Parliament. First of all, Syria, as long as it often ruins our criticism of the choice of power over Turkish foreign policy, I have explained on this occasion that we are the prayers of our soldiers, knowing that this operation is an inevitable choice. Once again, I would like to express our support as the Democratic Party of Turkey's operation in Syria. Of course, today, after a chain of wrongs, at the point where we are forced to make a difficult choice in front of Turkey, we are in the field with our military as a force in a situation we cannot solve with the elements of soft power. The main goal of our foreign policy is to create friendly circles, and in the moment we need them, together with these friendly circles, we can find the opportunity to use our primary thesis to the international public. Today we regret to see that our brother country has been expressed by the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus; our hearts desire... In international public opinion, major reactions in the region, Western countries, the Atlantic, are not only at the level of governments, but also at the level of public opinion, as well as at the level of public opinion of the PKK, PYD, ISIS, a movement carried out by an army such as the Turkish Armed Forces, an army that would have no concern with the unclaimed people. When we look at it from this perspective, we have seen our Syrian policy, particularly a century ago, a period of political cadastro-inducing politics in the region, a century later, reentering a process that will cause people in this region pain and tears. Unfortunately, the PKK had the opportunity and the opportunity to build an autonomous field in Syria after the emergence of another dynamics by the Turkish Republic's rule and the AKP's authority -- as a result of the wrong attitudes -- as we call it in international theory, a dynamic that you're playing -- can trigger other dynamics. Here today, especially the United States, but other Western forces, as a private security company with the PKK, have established an attitude against us, against the region, in order to build a presence here with the support of thousands of trucks, despite a sovereign state like Turkey. Despite all of that, not only do we have the opportunity to conduct a democratic accounting session today, but we do not meet with the government of the Republic of Turkey, not just because of the painful and troubling situation that we have come to, but also because of the government of the Republic of Turkey. We are not meeting with the government of Syria, but with all the elements, we are forced to engage in a business union, to establish relations, to increase the legitimacy of our operations on one side, and to make the success of the Turkish Armed Forces on the other, to make the diplomatic field a permanent idea, not to the international front, but to the international perception of the whole thing, with all the elements, with all of our political elements, with all of us, to engage in a whole degree of diplomacy.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0043par0278	Here, I'll add one more minute, Mr. Easy, complete, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0042par0279	I hope we see today that our operation against Syria is not against Kurds, but against terrorist organizations, which means that our internationally justified arguments have turned into an inadmissible accusation against a country facing Turkey, which is a NATO member. As I collect my words from this point of view, I would like to point out that as a result, Turkey today has to be in the field with all its national forces. Despite the existence of Turkey, I am obliged to express that we do not consider it a diplomatic success to be forced to take the initiative as much as Russia permits. We also know that in the beginning, the PKK, the United States, the United States, the Israeli Line, have accepted it as an embezzlement of Iran and Russia from time to time, but largely they object to Turkey's intervention here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, we consider this information important in order to continue this integrity in domestic politics. Once again, we expect all members of the Turkish Armed Forces to return to our country as soon as possible. We also express our prayers and support in front of you, so that they may be victorious. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0044par0285	Thank you, Mr. Soft. Dear lawmakers, in my talks with the Group President and the vice presidents earlier, the party members, who did not have the other group, have been told that it would not be right to make a commitment according to the Civil Code according to 59. I've been in consultations, and, yes, it's obviously a violation of the Civil Code. Therefore, I must give you my word, not according to 59, but according to 60. Mr. Erkan Chief, according to the seating order.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0045par0288	Thank you, dear President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0046par0289	This is where you commit your treason in Kobani.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0047par0290	What the hell does that mean? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0048par0292	Look, wait a minute, wait a minute. Congressmans, insulting the Presidential Court is a crime.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0047par0294	Respect!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0048par0295	You here insult the Constitution, the Civil Code, and the Parliament by insulting the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0047par0296	There's the Speaker now.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0048par0297	Please sit down!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0047par0298	Let the sentence be carried out.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0048par0299	Please sit down! I'll have to punish you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0049par0300	We have to punish him.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0048par0301	I have to. Yeah, there's a disciplinary action going on right now, so...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0050par0303	You don't do your job, how can you sit there after that!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit01spe0048par0304	You need to shut up! I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, and I'd like to ask the supervisors to remove him from the hall.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0048par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the second statement of Article 59 of the Civil Code, we will continue the talks, but before that, Mr. Destici had a saying. I think there's a demand for a conversation to clarify what he has to say about this. I'm going to promise him his place, ask him to clarify his intentions and intentions of his words before taking a break. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0051par0004	I want to talk about the podium.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0048par0005	I'll also give you that, I'll give you those five minutes of conversation, but before we start the negotiations...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0051par0006	I'm gonna talk in that speech, here, and I'm not gonna talk in front of my five-minute speech.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0048par0007	Mr. Destici, no, if you don't make this statement before we begin the negotiations, I won't promise, I won't promise anyone, I'll have to do another procedure. Therefore, I promise you your place first to clarify your words and intentions. I promise the other speakers and you for five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0051par0010	My words are very clear. Right now, in the northeast of Syria, I've told everyone who's fighting heroicly against terrorists, our security forces against the PKK/YPG terror organization, that they're illegal, and I'm going to keep calling them traitors. So if my word is a person, a human being, not to the spiritual person of the House or the Presidential Court, my word is very clear and clear: anyone who calls the honorable, heroic army of the Republic of Turkey is a traitor, and I urge everyone to give up this treason. I demand that they be removed from the House according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0048par0013	I see enough of Mr. Destici's explanation. If there is any belief that the House is being spent on the Presidential Court, on the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, the provisions of the Civil Code are clear, I must implement them, but I have never been able to implement disciplinary provisions in any session unless there is a real assault or a direct fight, nor have I ever. If the problem can be solved with explanations, intentional corrections, statements, as long as I'm acting president, I value it, and I continue the talks in accordance with the spirit of the parliamentary system, in accordance with the logic of democracy. I've seen enough of that explanation. Now I need to clarify the other thing. Dear MPs, Article 59 is first implemented in this framework, so it is normal to have confusion, or rather not unusual. There's probably been a mix-up with the law and decision-making process. I took the liberty of making promises, considering the commitments that came to me, and I started making promises based on the names on the list that reached me. As a result, I was going to make a promise to the lawmakers who had requested it, to lawmakers of non-grouped parties, to either one person by choice, or to all of them, just once, because there was no demand that had reached me before. When I didn't get a request, I had to choose a fair way to set a line. So I found it appropriate to make a five-minute commitment to these MPs that I've been telling everyone about, but I've changed my position on the warnings. In our talks inside, the members of the group's vice presidents said that at one time, they find it appropriate to make a commitment to one member of all non-group members. I agree. Therefore, considering the first application of the 59th article, I will make a five-minute commitment to not only the representative of one party, but the representative of all parties who do not have a group, considering that there have already been some confusion in the Laws Decisions process. I had a list coming my way. I made the first promise to Alektekin Uysal, MP Gültekin of Afyonkarahisar on the list, according to the signatory demands. I will now promise Istanbul MP Erkan Baş. From here, from the bench for five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0052par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'd like to start by reminding you that we all need to learn from the argument we just had. Since the beginning of this period, this Parliament has a fact, there are parties that don't have a group, and we say they should have a say. When these serious steps are not taken and necessary, we face such paintings. This shows once again how urgent the need for the regulation of the Civil Code is. Dear friends, we're not asking for a word of our own here. Look, what's the matter? For example, we're discussing a very important, extraordinary issue, and -- and I've watched the debates that go on until this hour -- what do the workers, the poor people, who live with their hard work and their hard work, and what do the poor people think of this process, and what does this Syrian issue mean to them, and what has not been said from this platform. Hence, these words need to be said here. There are workers in this country, there are workers, and we, the Labour Party of Turkey, are here on the charge of representing them. If we can't express it now, there's no point in being in this Parliament. Dear friends, we consider it a historical responsibility to express our warnings and suggestions on the solution of the problem, and as we begin, if these are not taken seriously, the responsibility is largely yours, but we will live with all the peoples, all the workers, all the poor, all the people of our country. So I suggest you turn the painting around once. There's a dissertation that's constantly pumped by the AKP, and it says, "This is a national issue. Let's not do politics here, let's all look together. It's actually a very good tactic. After all, when there's a failure, it's a failure for all of us, but when there's a success, when there's a conquest, when a national victory is won, Recep Erdogan is declared the hero of this victory. For one thing, we have to break this game. That's not what we're saying. What does the President say right after the operation starts? The disintegration of the People's Alliance has been very, very good, he says. Now, of course, what will become of the National Alliance? He's the problem of our friends, but we need to tell him something about the matter being used in internal politics, and what's behind it? The AKP's defeat is behind this, behind which AKP is no longer able to maintain any other kind of power, which must be drawn when the gold remains. Secondly, my dear friends, look, Turkey is a country built by tearing up sharing maps of imperialists. So now we're going to map Syria, and we're going to take over this region. It's not in the history of this country. We're a country that has done the opposite, torn apart the maps that others have drawn about us. Thus, we view the establishment of a region in the north of Syria as part of another country's disintegration process and find it absolutely wrong. Second: Look, it is clear that imperialist countries such as the United States, the European Union, have specific regional plans. In this flowing blood, we need to stress that they have a primary responsibility. We are the children of a people who stand up against spreading, and we don't need to learn from the dirty policies of these imperialists, and we need to underline that. Look, we're saying the U.S. sent this many guns, but what about our guns going in the trucks? Is that what we're gonna learn from the imperialists? We need to deny it. Third, dear friends, Al Qaeda, ISIS jihadists can't be the work of the President of Turkey to be marketed as the Syrian National Army. Look, I don't know what the president of the AKP would describe to him or what he couldn't describe, but it's not for us to accept that someone in the international arena, who speaks for Turkey, is interfering with the recruitment of a number of jihadist organizations that are facing Syria. For example, dear friends, now, we're discussing the Israeli issue, the Palestinian issue, when we discuss the area. Let us cancel all military, political, economic agreements with Israel. If we're going to handle the Palestinian cause, if we want peace in the region, it's the first thing to do, but instead of doing this, we're building so-called national armies with ISIS scraps, al-Qaeda scraps. It's impossible to accept. My dear friends, look, this country has real problems. What's the real problem? Even the Turkish Statistical Agency, whose data is now questionable, says yesterday that official unemployment in Turkey has reached 13.9%, young unemployment has risen to 27 per cent, and people in this country can't speak. Look, we're discussing judicial reform. Why are we having this discussion? Even the government acknowledged that people in this country can no longer express their thoughts freely, so let's at least put on a make-up.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0053par0035	Here you go, Mr. Head. I'll add one more minute to your speech.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0052par0037	I'd like to remind you that in his day he was a soldier of Turkey's most valuable exports. It should be said that the youth of this country should not be allowed to be used as a tool for the political interests of power, as a valuable propaganda material, and Parliament should take a stand on this. Dear friends, what's the point? It's urgent, we need to come up with a solution plan immediately. To end the security issues of Turkey and the region while it is not too late, we believe that this action must be ended immediately, and all soldiers must be returned safely to the country under the supervision of Turkey's border security. Two, a joint study of the problems of refugees in our country and the region must be conducted by direct contact with Damascus. Three, on this occasion, we need to take the initiative to solve the Kurdish problem, which we once again see as a burning problem, through a dialogue that we are not obliged to the international forces on the basis of transparency, equality and justice. Long live peace!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0054par0043	Thank you, Mr. Chief. İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir İslam is next in line for the speech. Here you go, Islam. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, first, I'd like to begin by showing mercy to those who lost their lives in this operation. Nothing we say here against the AK PARTY and your actions is to the Turkish Armed Forces or to our Mehmetchik. No one does politics by hiding behind the Armed Forces or behind Mehmetçik. They only follow your decisions, and all our criticism is for the political decisions you make. After highlighting that, I've just looked at Mr. AK PARTI's spokesman here reading the Qur'an. If the AK PARTY is starting to read the Qur'an, know that there's something wrong with it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0056par0052	You're shameless, shameless!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0053	I mean, we always remind them of the Qur'an in a time of persecution, but they never listen to us. Reading isn't the only thing. If they had read and understood how important the concepts of peace and authority were here, they would have been able to highlight it. My dear friends, the matter of consultation is not only an ancient knowledge of humanity, but an ancient tradition of all communities, and the Qur'an is underlined, but eight days ago, we had a review here, and we did almost nothing in the name of counsel. Look, Mr. Secretary is here today. Welcome. Mr. Secretary informs us in eight days. I ask the entire Parliament: "Yes, what did the voters vote for? What did they vote for before they were informed? I'm sorry, I'm asking you all this question.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0057par0056	We know, you don't.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0057	Here's our trouble when we're getting to work and running things, dear friends. They said: "We have sent the Minister of Defense, we have informed the three parties. " They don't include you; they include CHP, DP, and the GOOD PARTY." You don't have to say...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0057par0058	We do.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0059	Oh, you already know, you've been notified, over. That's what I'm saying. What I'm trying to say is that the decisions that this House needs to make are being made by one person there, and that it's being signed and spent in MYK, and that's what you're being informed about by this evening.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0058par0061	You're making a comment.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0062	Now, you've informed three parties. How many parties are represented in this House? Nine parties. Let's just say five of them have a group, they don't count you. CHP, MHP, GOOD PARTY have been notified. So why wasn't the HDP informed?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0059par0063	What's it to you?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0064	Isn't HDP a part of this country? Doesn't the HDP represent millions of voters in this country?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0059par0065	Are you his lawyer?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0066	Let's say you say that we've informed the presidents.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0060par0067	We've notified the whole world.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0068	So, why did you settle for three presidents? Why didn't you come and inform Mr. Karamollaoglu or invite him to the meeting and inform him? Of course, I'm putting the other presidents in on it. But you will decide on your own, and you will insist and insist that this House stand behind you. If I were a Mr. President -- and I had a bit of a system there -- I'd send those ministers straight to Congress, tell them what's wrong, and I'd say that the Turkish Grand National Assembly would decide on this issue. So, dear friends, as a result, these kinds of practices only confirm and only establish this understanding of the tribe that they want to place. Mr. President said today: "Let's all unite around the country. This is the country, my friends. He means the AK PARTY and merging around it. We are a country. We want the job to be detailed here, but when we look at the date, we don't trust your decisions, your decisions alone, your decisions without consultation. Why? If he gives me an extension, I'll explain it at the last minute. Will you give it to me?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0061par0073	Yeah, I'll give you one last minute. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0075	We don't trust your decisions for this: your president is the most deceived and most deceived person, the one who makes the decision on his own. Second of all, I'm not personally sure if you have a political account for making these decisions.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0062par0077	People are sure of us.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0078	I'm looking at June 7th, November 1st, and I see what you can do to get back a choice that you've just lost.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0063par0079	What country do you live in? Where do you live?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0055par0080	That's why I'm saying that it's almost impossible for me that any of your political actions, any decision you've made, have no interest behind it. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0064par0084	Turkey has its interests.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0065par0085	Thank you, Islam. Yes, now it's time to speak, Ankara MP Mustafa Destici. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0066par0088	I'd like to give you a brief answer, Mr. President, according to 60.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0065par0089	Let it be done, the other members of the group have a request for a word, and I'll meet them all at once. Let's meet the promises of parties that don't have a group, and then we'll be done.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0066par0090	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0067par0091	Mr. Secretary, dear MPs, I salute you first, and ask my great Lord to bless you for this hearing.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0068par0092	Bow to the House first, don't flatter the Minister!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0067par0093	Dear lawmakers, first of all, we are the first political party to submit our request to the Office of the Law, written at around twelve o'clock, after learning that Mr. Secretary of Foreign Affairs is going to inform here. This was reported verbally, but yet everyone saw what happened here. Who's the real Democrat, who's the so-called Democrat, when they open their mouths, we've seen the democratism of those who talk about democracy once again. I'm keeping you posted on this.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0068par0094	First you can't salute the House, you're sucking up to the Minister!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0067par0095	Of course, first of all, I ask God to have mercy on our Mehmets, our soldiers, who have been martyrs in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace. May their souls be blessed and their dwellings be paradise. I pray to God for the mercy of our civilian citizens, who have died as a result of a mortar or rocket launcher fired by members of the treacherous PKK and YPG terrorist organization across our border, and I pray for immediate healing for our wounded. First of all, we have friends here who know what this operation is about, and what it's about, and what it's all about. And it's a duty for all of us to tell the world. These are: 1) To ensure our border security and to clear the area from terrorists on the other side of the border, 2) There are refugees who came to our country after the Syrian war, to create a safe zone for them and place a significant amount of them there, The third is to contribute to the establishment of civil peace in Syria and to the preservation of Syrian territorial integrity. Now, for these purposes, I sincerely congratulate the President, members of the government, and all the ranks of our state, who have carried out this operation, who has ordered this operation, and I want to say that we are with them to the end, personally and in the community.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0069par0101	Did Syria ask us for help to protect our territorial integrity?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0067par0102	Listen, I'll tell you, listen patiently.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0069par0103	I'll listen.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0067par0104	You guys talk too much, we only get five minutes, you know, by forcing him to fight like this. Now, second of all, I wish the Secretary of Defense, the Chief of Staff, all the successes of our soldiers who are fighting heroically there right now, to the last of them, to the last of them, to the last of them, to the last of them, to the last of them, to the best of them, to the best of them. May my Lord help them, and make them victorious. Now, what do the insiders, the outside imperialist, and the global forces say? This is an invasion. We want to ask: Are there Syrian armies in the territory where our soldier is currently operating, the Syrian flag is raised? It is already occupied by the PKK/YPG-PYD with the support of the United States CENTCOM, where it has done ethnic cleansing, where it has removed Arabs and against themselves Kurds, Turkmen, and is trying to create a state there. The Turkish army prevents invasion of the Turkish state, liberates the region; for once everyone will see it. And it's up to all of us to defend it together. We may have criticisms of the government, and we've done our criticism of the solution process, but today is not the day. Today is the day to stand by the government, the nation and the soldier, today is the day of unity. We can keep our criticisms hidden, we can speak of them, but the state of the Republic of Turkey helps the terrorists. He cooperates with the terrorists. Like the world, complaining to the public is a great evil, even if it is not treason, we need to know. So we're saving the area from the opposite occupation. The third issue -- five minutes to go, twenty seconds to go -- sir, is that the government of the Republic of Turkey can resuscitate with this action. What if it became the state and the military of the Republic of Turkey, fighting the DAEŞ, and it became the power of Turkey, if it was removed from there for years. This is a major injustice and accusation against Turkey. Another matter: the U.S. delegation is coming, what are their intentions? Negotiating. You're going to mediate between Kim and whom, between the state of the Republic of Turkey and the terrorists, among the terrorists you've been looking out for, the tens of thousands of trucks you've given weapons to?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0070par0110	Here, Mr. Destici, I'll add one more minute.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0067par0111	The state of the Republic of Turkey must not approach it, and it must continue from Menbic to Kamishlı, beginning with its goals of action. Ayn al-Arab, in particular Ayn al-Arab, the so-called capital of the region, must be one of the first targets of the Ayn al-Arab operation, which we rescued when the ISIS invaded, and should be started as soon as possible, and that should be cleared of terrorists. Because there is also an attack on both our military areas and our civilian regions, especially the Murhidzınar. Of course, I'd like to talk more about what the U.S. intends, the West's intentions, all of that, but that's how long we've been given. Once again, whoever betrays, we call him a traitor, and from now on, we'll keep calling him a traitor. No one here can call the honorable army of the Republic of Turkey an invader, especially if he's sitting in these seats. If that's what it's called and it's not being processed, that's a crime. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I won't ask you for words. With such feelings and thoughts, he greets you with love again, and I say, "Lord, let our soldiers be the help and help of our security forces, and let them be manzur and victorious."
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0071par0118	Yes, dear MPs, the talks for the parties are complete. The group's vice presidents have demands of words, but I've been informed that the Minister must be in time for a meeting. Therefore, the Minister wishes to make some statements on the talks. I'll give him five minutes, and if that's not enough, I'll add. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0072par0124	Mr. President, thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to express my gratitude to all of our MPs here today. In the matter of information, indeed, as this action began, our president personally called the heads of political parties to inform them of the operation. Again, our National Defence Minister has informed the group's presidents, presidents, or deputies, and I am happy to come here today at the request of our Parliament. In our previous talks, we have specifically stressed that whenever the Grand Assembly commands, we come and inform it whenever it wants. So when a request came from our Parliament -- we were in Baku, we returned yesterday, and as soon as we returned -- we gladly said, "We are informing our Parliament today." So I have a sensitivity to informing our House, as a friend of yours who's been a member of parliament for years.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0073par0127	Who informed you, Mr. Secretary, who?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0072par0128	I've informed the entire House here today. Thank you very much. Dear friends, Turkish diplomacy is really well known in the world. This is true of our diplomats, our friends who have just spoken, retired, and have been involved in politics at different parties, and that is true of the friends we work with. So we're always trying to run diplomacy to the end. Oh, it's not one-sided, it's diplomacy, it's supposed to be mutual, it's supposed to have that understanding on the other side. We have the culture of compromise. So diplomacy has to be a compromise culture; it's not always what you want it to be, it's not always what the other side wants it to be. In the process, we've run diplomacy to the fullest. You know how we always say, "Why haven't other alternatives been tried?" With the United States -- we've just been trying to tell you -- you've really followed -- we've made an effort to build a safe zone together to the end. In this period of time, the word "damaged" is not true. It's a better start, but......saying that the U.S. is trying to stall all the distractions, just cosmetic things, taking steps, our President, I have shared with the public in the same way. So there's no deception here. But we tried that way, and if we didn't, we did our warnings, and we're going to do it alone, and we've already made that decision before we went down that road with the U.S.A. As a result, this decision was made in accordance with reports from our soldiers from the field, and we took that step. This is not a political issue. You see the rockets coming, you see the mortars or the shots. How many of our people were injured, 22 of our people died. So there's a threat here. This threat is not to keep a party in power, it's for the country's future, it's for border security, we're doing this for our own sake, and we know that if we don't do it tomorrow, maybe even in the future. So it saddens us to say that we've really stepped up here with political anxiety. This is a national matter, and let's maintain that understanding. In fact, during this time, we did more information than we did on Operation Afrin, so we never neglected the other foot of diplomacy, and we made it clear to our friends how we did it in the notifications -- what decisions, what decisions and the situation in the field -- and we did more information with our friends than we did with Operation Afrin. So why was there a much more reaction from our Operation Afrin than from Operation Olive Branch? Then we cleaned the YPG from there, why is there a reaction now? I just told you, the big game broke down, they wanted to build a terrorist state here, we broke this game. That's what the reaction is. I'll tell you something else: I've talked to a lot of foreign ministers, and the two paragraphs those foreign ministers told me on the phone -- look, I'm speaking very frankly here -- not the word, but the decimal, the point, they're all the same -- I'm talking about two paragraphs -- are 100 percent the same. How is that possible? It's obviously organized somewhere. We see that, and we see how much pressure is being put on other countries in the European Union. The Arab League has taken it before -- we've given it the answer -- it's decided on our Operation Afrin, so what's the verdict? How many refugees did he take, how much did he help those in Turkey? Their sensitivity and our sensitivity are not the same, and our sensitivity to Palestine is not the same. In the meantime, let's not be unfair to the Palestinian state, it's not the first time the Palestinian Foreign Minister went to the Arab League meeting to avoid this decision because they're pushing. In fact, some of these Arab countries are pressuring Jordan and Palestine to raise their voices on the Palestinian issue. We see these games in the field, so the Palestinian condemned us. Let's not be unfair. If he had been there, if he had been there, if he had been there, he would have said it. You could have said it, separately, but no reproach, I'd like to say it. Dear friends, why did we take responsibility for this ISIS? ISIS is a threat to us above all else. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0074par0138	Sure. I'll add three more minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0072par0139	Our responsibility is only to our field of action or to those who come to our land. If these are released today, who will be the first to attack? As soon as we get to the countries where they came from or go to other countries, it's not clear, but it attacks us first. So it is our duty to hold them there, to hold them responsible for their acts of terror, and to do so, our Ministry of Justice, our Ministry of State, our Ministry of State, our Ministry of State, our working group; what steps can we take, how can we send them to countries, and then what can we do? But there are women and children. What do we do with them? Come on, some of the women joined, fought, he's a terrorist, she's a man, she's a woman, she's a religion, she's an ethnic group, they're all terrorists. But what are we going to do with these young women who fell for their ideology, married -- 15 years old -- who were left behind, who had never been involved in a terrorist act, and what are we going to do with them with the countries they came from? So we don't neglect that size. The refugees who really come back here will go home. Now, does Turkey's 300,000 Kurds want to return or not? We have friends from that area in particular, other friends. Do you talk to these friends of ours? They want to go back. Why can't he come back? He can't return from the YPG because of the terrorist organization. You're nodding that they want to come back, so thank you. If the YPG really controls it, if the YPG represents the Kurds, why can't it return?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0075par0140	Where will you place the returning Syrians? That is the question.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0072par0141	Because they shut down their parties, banished them, and killed many; and the Syrian Kurds in Europe come to me, and they tell me about it. We can't come back from this YPG terrorist organization. They call it the right thing to do, and it's true. So they're coming to us.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0075par0142	Where will you send these Syrians?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0072par0143	Where are you going? The YPG has been controlling it for years. Why isn't he helping? It's just his own ideology, and he's got terrorists there, and they've persecuted everyone else. So, when our Syrian Kurdish brothers return home there, the demographic will change? We wouldn't do that if we had such a purpose. Please, let's not take it out on this thing we're doing.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0076par0144	There are 2 million Kurds here, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0077par0145	You said 1 million, we're going to place 1 million people in power. You said.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0078par0146	Friends, dear friends...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0147	Friends, it's not just 300,000 Kurds from here.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0077par0148	No, you said 1 million.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0149	I'm sorry. This is already about 30 percent of the total population, two thirds of the Arab population. There are Turks, there are Christians, there are other groups, so except Kobani and a few other places, the majority of the population is not Kurdish, but 90 percent Arab. So when there are 300,000 Kurds, it's already about one third of a million. So the rest are Arabs, and they're going home, not just Kurds, but everyone will.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0080par0151	Where are they, where are they?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0081par0152	Where's he going, whose house he's going to go?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0153	He's going home, everyone's going back to the house he came from. The problem with you is that the YPG changed the demographic here, about 80 percent of the population, 90 percent of the population were not Kurds -- the average -- is now controlling 30 percent of the land.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0082par0155	400,000 people have migrated so far, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0083par0156	I'll add two more minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0157	The end... If people return to their homes, the demography will be restored, so the YPG will not benefit them. Just as the Kurd, Turkmen, Arab or Armenians came, as the other Syrian brothers came; there are Yezidi, there are Keldanis in Turkey -- we are hosting the same thing about returning. This is not a Kurdish hostility. If you call our Kurdish brothers YPG/PKK is equal to Kurdish, it would be unfair. Many of our Kurdish brothers, the majority of them, vote for the EC PARTY -- I know now that I've done politics -- are voting for CHP, there are those who voted for the GOOD PARTY, the Nationalist Movement Party. How do you... It's not fair to say that Kurt is equal to PKK.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0084par0159	It's blasphemy, it's blasphemy!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0160	It's a swear word. Let's not insult our Kurdish brothers. Therefore, fighting a terrorist organization is not Kurdish hostility, it is the fight against a terrorist organization. We need to talk about this very clearly. Look, my friends, the most sensitive country for Syrian border integrity, territorial integrity is the Republic of Turkey, and at all meetings, in all our decisions, in all our statements, we stress it. So it's not an invasion, it's a counterterrorism measure, and we're more committed to Syria's territorial integrity than anyone else when we enter here.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0085par0162	Why did you object to the arrival of the Syrian army?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0163	Sir, now...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0086par0164	Mr. Secretary, in the referendum...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0087par0165	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Secretary, make your statements. Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0166	I don't want to get into a racket here with you respectable lawmakers.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0087par0168	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0169	You guys have had your talks. Our president has given us his word, and I'm responding in a very appropriate manner.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0088par0170	I'm not asking, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0171	I don't want to mess with you here, and I want to finish with those thoughts. I've made our true thoughts very clear, and you've expressed your thoughts from the stand, and I thank you very much for that. My respects to all of you, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0175	Mr. President, I forgot something.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0176	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0079par0177	Did the Syrian National Army -- the Free Syrian Army -- fight against DAESS? He was fine then, but now that he's fighting against the YPG, how does he become an ISISist? The Syrian National Army -- the Free Syrian Army -- was the Syrian Army -- is the name of freedom -- is the power of the moderate opposition that everyone knows, friends, and I want to write it down. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0090par0181	Don't tell stories, Mr. Secretary, don't tell stories. Don't tell stories, Mr. Secretary, you're telling stories, fairy tales, just fairy tales.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0182	If so, I'll meet the pledges of the group's vice presidents. It's not in the system here because there's a large number of lawmakers entering the system, so the group's deputy president's demands don't appear to be available either. Please, point out, I'll meet your request. Mr. Dervisoglu, please...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0091par0184	Mr. President, after the MP's speech, or after those one-minute speeches?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0185	No, I promise you now, we'll take a break, we'll keep our normal agenda. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0092par0188	Mr. President, dear MPs, first of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, who has informed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, for his information and statements. The Council of Turkish-speaking States Co-operation in Azerbaijan yesterday -- also known as the Turkish Council -- has decided to support our cross-border operations at the 7th Summit of State Presidents. We welcome this support from the Turkish world. Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan were present at the meeting, as well as Hungary, which has supported the operation from the beginning. I believe it is imperative that the Arab and European Union be present at a time like this, and that the Turkish Council be present with us as Turkey. Since history, Turk has no friends other than Turk. His word has once again been proved true. In the coming process, we need to turn our face to the Turkish states rising from the east, strengthen our economic and political relations. So as Turkey, we must face the sun. There is no question of the fact that if we are one with 250 million Turkish geography and together we will establish a new balance of power in the world.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0191	Here, let's add one more minute to the conversation, friends.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0092par0192	We regret that the UEFA (UEFA) launched an investigation on the application of Germany and France against France-Turkey for the joy of a national team's goal. Taking a soldier's greeting after the goal as a political message is a sign of European malice. It is not acceptable for our Turkish football players playing in Germany, Italy and France to receive warnings and be pressured by their teams. When it comes to democracy and freedom of expression, we strongly condemn the bilateral attitude of Europe, which talks about freedom of speech when it comes to Turkey. We don't sit at the table with terrorists about the north of Syria on the President's -- on the plane to Azerbaijan -- we find the word to be true and true.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0195	Please put him through, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0092par0196	Of course, you don't negotiate terrorism, you don't negotiate with a terrorist. We were defending it yesterday, and we're defending it today, but I can't help but say that we are astounded by Mr. Erdogan's statement. It was Mr Erdogan who negotiated with terrorists during the so-called solution process, greeted the terrorist organization with drums in Habur. He sent delegations to İmralı. He received a road map from the terrorist leader for the Constitution. I hope and hope that when it comes to this kind of negotiation, I haven't, the state has. We haven't forgotten all that.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0198	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0092par0199	Besides, we don't sit at the table with terrorists from the President's mouth. It's something we want to believe. Meanwhile, it has been announced by the Volkswagen that the factory to be built in Manisa, which will employ 5,000 people with 1.3 billion euros, has been postponed due to Operation Peace Fountain. While the two states continue to have economic and commercial relations with each other in the event of war, I also condemn this attitude taken by Germany during the operation launched by Turkey to protect its borders, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0089par0201	Thank you, Mr. Dervisoglu. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0093par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. We've all been happy to hear from the Turkish world today that we've successfully carried out Operation Peace Fountain, and that they've expressed support in the face of some of the world's responses and threats. Following the 7th Summit of the Turkish Council, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan, Uzbekistan, the signing of the leaders of Turkey's Turkish Council noted the following: The Turkish Council declares its hopes and faith in the fight against terrorism of Turkey's Peace Fountain, the restoration of Syria's territorial integrity, and the establishment of conditions for the safe and voluntary return to its homes. The Turkish world has been singled out these days when Turkey wanted to be compressed. There is another message on this busy agenda that should not remain between the lines: the founder of Kazakhstan and the Turkish Council's Honorary President Nursultan Nazarbayev says that the union of the Turkish world can be made clear to me by the promise of trust. I choose the words "rebirth" and "trust" to describe our union. In the language of Ismail Gasparalı, he agrees, here is the unity of the Union, which is progressing step by step in the Turkish world.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0094par0208	Go ahead, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0093par0209	Mr. President, support messages from all parts of our community are coming through the Peace Fountain agenda. We need to open a special parenthesis here to our A national football team. We congratulate our athletes, who have crowned their battle and success against the French national team with a national stance. Despite the pressures from the countries in which they continued their careers, we are proud of the greeting they sent to our Mehmet-chik. The national team has taken a national stance, and once again, we offer our congratulations and thanks to each one of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0094par0211	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Survivor...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0095par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to greet you. It's an honor to try to defend the House's honor because of the unpleasant situation just now, despite all the compulsions, to try to protect justice, democracy. I would like to say that we are honored to be your co-workers, that everyone in the power of representing the House should take some example of this, especially with respect and respect.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0094par0216	Thank you, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0095par0217	We've just heard what Mr. Minister calls information, which is, in fact, in public, we've always known, that we can't learn from something very new. When we look at the efforts of both the Ministry of Defence and the way the Foreign Minister is coming here, we see how much the AKP is struggling with this operation -- or rather, I'll correct it again -- with this war. I mean, why didn't the AKP apply that vicious language here? Because it's really stuck. It's not supported, it's seen everywhere inside and outside. So he says there's support inside Syria, there's no such thing. Aleppo General Assembly, we know that the Haseke clans, Kurds, Arabs, Suryani and Assyrian tribes have made a joint press statement and said, "Don't come." El Cebur Fewaz El Zobi, president of the Covenant Assembly, is taking away our land with El Nusra, with the OSO, and they have a statement. If you look at the world's explanations... they say we've already been very lonely. He says that loneliness is a virtue. The group's deputy presidents have found a saying and a share.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0094par0220	Go ahead, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0095par0221	That's what we said when we started. With the increasing economic crisis, poverty, unemployment, the Kurdish problem pushing itself, the rotting judicial system, all our living spaces closed, we said that AKP needed such an operation, war, occupation. With this operation he needed, along with the war, of course what he did, he began by taking all opposition behind him and trying to provide a little internal consensus, which, unfortunately, he also got some support. And what we're looking at right now is that we're looking at it as a further increase. I'd like to say, again, that when we look at the Syrian army, the Syrian army and the people who live there, we will take care of our own land integrity. They said, and they intervened.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0094par0223	Here, let's finish, please, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0095par0224	I'm completing it, Mr. President. There, this war is a blow to all our peoples, to the common will of Kurds and Turks to live together, to hope. It's an attempt to maintain their own seats, their own power, their own breathing, their own life. Let's stop taking our young people to their deaths for these seats, our people, the two ancient peoples, and the two people of history, who have the perspective of brotherhood. The dead are many, of course, but there's a way back from here. I mean peace, peace, peace again. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0096par0227	Thank you, Mr. Survivor. Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0097par0229	I don't have any demands, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0096par0230	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0098par0232	Mr. President, my request is necessary, but first of all, I would like to say that we welcome your commitment and effort to act in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Code of the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0096par0233	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0098par0234	I'd like to point out that in my speech earlier... I think all of our conversations are in a wholety. Yeah, we're talking to each other, but our stenographer friends are recording every word. The point of this, in fact, is to talk about a whole issue, not just today, not tomorrow, when every conversation that we've had is completed. We, of course, talked about a lot of things in the density of the agenda yesterday, for example, when they were being discussed, there are things that I can't say enough, that I can't answer. Because I thought of it as a whole, one of the discussions yesterday was the meaning of the concept of fetih. In my own speech, I didn't understand it, I didn't understand it, I felt the need to tell it, and for that, I came from a living example, the meaning of two verses written at the gate of Istanbul University. The whole chapter of the Qur'an can also be read because the Qur'an is not just a text that is read only during worship, but in every aspect of our lives. In fact, if I were to scan the talks in the House, there would be sentences that would benefit from the scriptures without many of my friends knowing it. It's a very natural thing to do. In fact, I take it it's abuse to understand and describe it as abuse. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit02spe0099par0237	Thank you, Mr. Rich. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0099par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility address belongs to İzmir MP Bedri Serter, who wants to talk about World Food Day. Here you go, Mr. Serker. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0100par0009	Thank you. Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, today is October 16th, World Food Day. Food is an indispensable need for human life, and access to food is a human right. According to U.N. data, 850 million people on Earth today are suffering from starvation. Every day, five million children under the age of five die from malnutrition. With recent years of globalization and urbanization, their diet and eating habits have changed, unfortunately. On the other hand, according to international data, 672 million people face the problem of obesity, while 1.3 billion people are referred to as ▪kilolu. Total misfeeding, prepared food, and unhealthy living are the result. While this is the painting, I have made a promise today to create awareness of how we can avoid hunger in the world and Turkey, how we can live healthyly, how we can live healthyly. On this occasion, I'd like to thank the Food Engineers Room, where I'm delighted to receive their support. What I'm talking about up there is that the deaths in our country and in the world are truly human shame. Given the situation in Turkey, the hunger limit of a family of four in 2019 is $2.075, minimum wage $2.020, according to Turkish-historic data. Again, according to Turkish-historic data, annual food inflation is sadly at 23 per cent; the inflation the government has explained to us is 9 per cent. Today, 22.5 million people live under the hunger border in Turkey. According to these data, the final point in 17 years of AKP power is that the Turkish people are starving, starving for unemployment, and one of the four people are starving to bed. When we say, agriculture and livestock are the first to come to mind, but in 2019, farmers drive their vegetables as fertilizers in the field, farmers brothers with cows and people who care about agriculture are trying to sell their cows for meat and pay off their debts. My science, Izmir, is one of Turkey's exemplary provinces in this regard; it has made the difference between seed swaps, local governments supporting the farmer, supporting the milkman, and Turkey for example. Today was a beautiful development, and Istanbul's Metropolitan Municipality distributed 100,000 milk from the Tire Milk Cooperate to our children. That's a positive development. Of course, food and drink are the first to come to mind. And we have to get them back in good health. This is the most natural of all, with food engineers raised by quality teachers in equipped schools, and every food-based institution and organization that deals with food must be obliged to have experienced food engineers. The employment of food engineers is highly functional and important, but the problem is the lack of our food engineers who have graduated from food engineering schools, trained by academics with quality and adequate knowledge. I'm not gonna name it after school. In one city in Central Anatolia, in a very valuable city, a university's faculty of food engineering took 60 students to four years of education this year and 60 students to study for two years. Teachers are only one professor and one assistant. Appreciation goes to the House. Just building buildings, building beautiful buildings, writing "universite" to empty buildings, students and teachers. The important thing is that there's a teaching institution that's full, full of teachers and students can grow up with quality. I'd like to learn from our Parliament how many food engineers are involved in our Parliament when there are so many people who are eating, eating, working within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0101par0019	Here, I'll add another minute, Mr. Serter.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0100par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. My request from the Ministry of Agriculture is that we increase the employment opportunities of food engineers who graduate 4,000 years of education or education. I expect the government to support the business for the food engineer. Wherever there's food, let's provide food engineers with jobs. It's the problem of every profession with a large number of graduates. On World Food Day, there are people running to the hospital from food poisoning in many parts of Turkey on a day we will first call health first food safety. In a country where only 20 per cent of household income is earmarked for food spending, the first priority of agriculture and health ministries must be to ensure that healthy food is consumed. Most importantly, there are companies that produce conscious and educated food. Another issue is whether the Ministry of Agriculture is looking at them, whether it's the Ministry of Health, whether it's the municipalities; it's all mixed up everywhere, and it's not getting results.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0102par0024	The palace is looking after him, looking after him alone.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0100par0025	There's a lot to say. Last word...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0103par0027	Mr. Serter, as per our agreement with the group's vice presidents, I'm only going to add one minute to all the conversations.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0100par0028	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. I pay my respects to everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0103par0031	Thank you, Mr. Serker. The second speech outside the agenda is owned by Ankara MP Nevin Taşlıçay, who has asked to be the capital of Ankara on October 13, 1923. Here you go, Mr. Rocky. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. I'll just add a minute.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0104par0037	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise today to mark the 96th anniversary of Ankara's capital city of the National War. I wish for many years, the last capital of the Turkish nation, this ancient city, which has had the burden of humanity on its shoulders and has been Turkish for a thousand years. I wish once again mercy to Hussain Gazi, Sheikh Ali Semerkandi, Haci Bayram, and to many other Alps, to those whose name we cannot name, to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the strategic mind of Ankara's capital. For a thousand years, I bow before the spirit that has grown this land and finally made it a capital city. Precious MPs, world capitals, as well as politics, are also the capital of tourism, culture, civilization. It's like this all over the world from the east to the west, from the north to the south. History is displayed in the capitals, cultures are introduced, civilizations appear in displays. And if it's an ancient city, in historical continuity, all the skills are performed all over the city. And Ankara, with its 5,000-year history and 1,000-year-old city of Turkish-Islam, is waiting for a major tourist move to demonstrate its skills as the host of the young republic. The capital, Ankara, must enter 2023, with restored cultural and historical inventory, with completed cultural routes, with a flood of millions of tourists. That's our goal and our expectation. The heroes of the national struggle hope to meet with all Turkey in the heart of the national struggle. From the first legislature to Dikmen, from Polat to Çankaya, from Mustafa Kemal Pasha to Ismet Pasha, from Kazım Karabekir to Fevzi Çakmak, we must best tell and live those heroes to all who fall into Ankara. In this scope, we hope that Ankara will become a re-enquired museum of open air, in time for the 100th anniversary celebration of the Republic of Turkey. Ankara has all the conditions for cultural and historical tourism, health tourism, thermal tourism, rural tourism, religious tourism, congressional tourism, harvest tourism, tourism on the weekend. The solution is to take each title one at a time and implement innovative projects. The fossil forest in Pinedera is the world's favorite. It is not a remote possibility that the canyons in Beypazari are the center of attraction in the world and that necessary work is being done. Our thermals have sufficient conditions to heal. With the aromatherapy centers, we can make Ayash (Ayash) and Kızılcahamam (a center of both thermal and congressional tourism). The historic Roman bath, Ankara Castle, is waiting to be restored in its full glory. The nation, the apple of the eye of the young republic, misses its glory days. The magnificent transformation in the bath house must be expanded to include this region, and the nation's Haci Bayram-ı Veli, who bought it from Ankara Castle to Hamaönul, must display 5,000 years of history with pride. The Anafartas and the Nation's Market should also be revived. It's alternative tourism to meet the consumer in the field, in the moonberry branch, in the tomato field, in the vineyard of Kalecik grape, in the garden of Beypazarı carrots. That's what our children, who grew up far from the ground, need the most. Also, Turkey's geographically marked products should include Ankara, Ayash tomato, Ayash dutu, Beypazarı carrot, Ankara goat, Ankara tics, Beypazari baklava 60 times more geographically marked products. The Valley of Butters, Mount Light, Cold, Wolf's Throat, Stick Dam awaits the attention of tour companies for their weekend tourism. Each week, dozens of buses carry Ankara residents to the surrounding cities, while local development will be spontaneously provided when we prepare this infrastructure for Ankara's districts. Lakebaş is only 15 minutes from Ankara headquarters. The speed of cleaning Lake Mogan will increase the number of visitors to the region, making fishing more popular in the region, making positive contributions to the development of garden tourism at Lake Bay. The stick must be supported by its faithful, fertile land, its natural wonder Karagöl, and its villages as part of nature's tourism. If we're looking for a place to breathe and eat organic food for our urban people who want to run to nature, we're about 20 minutes away with sticks, pickles, cattle products, vegetables, fruit, and the locals are ready to welcome the Ankarans with all their hospitality. As deep as its historical depth, its spiritual depth must also be removed from the path of faith tourism for Ankara, and we must encourage the tour companies. The date in Ankara is the deed of the future. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0105par0050	I'll start you off for a minute, Mr. Stonedchay.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0104par0051	The motive contains the mark of thousands of years of Turkicism on its stones. Let's introduce this open-air museum to more visitors by introducing pictures of rocks. A tourism move in Ankara's privacy will create much more value than we thought. Before I put an end to my words, the eagle of war, the truster of peace, wishes the Turkish army a glorious victory in Operation Fountain of Peace, honor and gratitude for our martyrs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0106par0055	Thank you, Mr. Stonedchay. The third non-responsive speech is owned by İzmir MP Ceyda Çankırı, who wants to refer to World Food Day. Here you go, Mr. Uninterrupted Candelabra. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0107par0061	Mr. President, very valuable MPs are celebrated every year as World Food Day on October 16th. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, established in 1945, aims to contribute to the impact of climate change on agricultural production, to the lack of food expected to increase its impact in the coming years, to focus on world-wide hunger and poverty, as well as to help everyone reach reliable and nutritious food. The waste of food is at the top of the most important issues that we need to focus on. We also face and fight the waste of food under the Zero Hunger Prize of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) as part of the Zero Waste Project of Madam Emine Erdoğan. Although the world's population is 6.7 billion, 12 billion people a year are being produced food and there is almost a waste of half of it. It is not possible to achieve goals such as healthy individuals and qualified education before hunger is eliminated. Although there is enough food in the world for everyone, one in nine people are starving. Statistically, the number of people starving in 2019 is over 837 million. At the same time, 1.6 billion people are overweight. The saddest part is, on average, 18,000 people a day starve to death. There must be a balance between those who consume too much or malnourished and those who do not find enough food. Head of food and proper nutritional health. The seed is where the quality of food begins. The more reliable and quality seeds you have, the healthier your food will be. We are aware that we need to preserve our native plant diversity that grows only in this land and make a breakthrough at the point where we can make sufficient use of our fertile land. Turkey is the host of the biological diversity that reaches 12,500, and has lost that diversity in the last 70 years, while it has been the world's agricultural barn with 18,000 kinds of wheat. During this time, the use of local seeds, which are completely natural, incompatible with changing environments and conditions, has been reduced, along with the increase of population, from traditional agriculture to industrial agriculture. We're doing serious project work on the transfer of our seed to the next generation, as we're aware of what we have. Another problem we have to deal with is the loss of water supply. In 1999, when we're pulling the underground water we used in agriculture from 150 meters deep, we're finding it difficult in the 850 meters. We're also dealing with a drought problem. The record of the harvest is 20 tons of sorgul wheat, the oldest known seed of Mesopotamia, which we have planted in the Plains of Mardin as 2 tons. With traditional production techniques, we reduced production costs to a minimum, thanks to local seeds produced without water, fertilizer, and without energy. That's how our farmers raised their income to the highest level. We're teaching our own farmers the good farming practices of small farming communities that know how to produce traditional agricultural methods in their country among refugees who have come to our country from immigration in 2011, and we're trying to get them to meet local seeds and reproduce them and transfer them to generations. In this context, we have cleared our land of chemicals with the knowledge of cultural and traditional agriculture with Syrian refugee women that we have integrated into our Earth Table Project. As part of our project, in the first year, we trained our Syrian refugee farmer to implement agriculture. We are currently working on our project with 350 women, 17 farm owners and 24 female engineers, both local and Syrian refugees. As for another project, in Turkey, we continue to work in our Hope There Is Hope Project, where we aim to provide jobs for the Syrian and local disadvantaged groups in six counties, including Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Mardin, Adana and Şanlıurfa. With the funding provided by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, 600 people a year have been trained in gastronomy and...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0108par0069	Complete, please, Mr. Uninterrupted Canister. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0107par0071	...to be certified as assistant cook at the end of education, and to improve the current conditions of vocational upper secondary schools that provide gastronomy and tourism education in the provinces where our project is being implemented. We will continue to produce and carry on our current work, hoping that the World Food Day will provide enough, enough, to provide for mankind's needs, to allow faith and culture to reach healthy, safe food. Thank you to our concerned ministries, especially Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his precious wives, Mr Emine Erdogan, for their support and assistance in our project work. As part of Operation Fountain of Peace, I ask my Lord to grant my blessing to our heroic army, fighting the treacherous terror organizations for the borders, peace and security of our country. I declare that we will continue our fight against terrorist organizations with determination. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0109par0077	Thank you, Mr. Uninterrupted Candelabra. Congressmans, now, I'm going to promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. Dear Yým... no. Mr. Kaboglu will speak for Mr. Yım. Here you go, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0110par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. The concept of the government system of the presidency is often used to justify the problems faced in the application of the 2017 Constitutional amendment or to defend the unconstitutional laws. This concept, however, has no constitutional basis or binding properties. Political characterization differs from constitutional normative value. Political characterization cannot be the basis of acts and actions that are contrary to the Constitution. The Supreme Assembly can only measure the open and administrative provisions of the Constitution in its legislative activity. An unconstitutional law can never be made into a constitutional law based on the presidential government system. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0111par0087	So you're just hanging out with him, huh, Hodja?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0112par0088	Mr. Beko...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0113par0090	Dear lawmakers, if you don't stop, the mines will be your disaster, millions of tons of sulfuric acid will be used, acid will be showered because of acid vapor, the world's most fertile lands will be in danger of desertification. For Nickel, mountains will be carved, rocks will be blown, nickel dust will be thrown into the ground, air, water -- hap nickel dust will be cancer-producing -- the primary threat of disease will be cancer. All underground water will be used for the mine, and there will be no water to water the soil, for animals, for men, and for all living things. Millions of trees will be cut down for the mine, forests will be destroyed, climate will change, the threat of erosion will be another threat to humanity. If you don't claim your land, your mortar, your water, your forest, your future, the mines will be your undoing. If you don't want to get cancer, if you don't want to get dehydrated, if you don't want no dirt, if you don't want to get acid on our heads, if you want to breathe fresh air, if you want a healthy future...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0112par0092	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0114par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. History is a repeat. They call it "History." In Cyprus, the government of Ismet Inönü announced that it would intervene in Cyprus in 1964 after the Turkish massacre of children, men, women, and elders, and the United States would step in and suspend the intervention. In 1974, despite America, we are not actually going to the island for war but for peace. Despite America and Europe today, the campaign against PKK/YPG and DEAŞ terror organizations north of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has begun. With the order, the embargoes are being announced, especially in the United States, as in the Cyprus Peace Movement in 1974. No matter what you do, the longer you put the embargo on, the stronger we get, the more our defense industry climbs up to 100 percent, Mehmetchik moves forward. Yes, history repeats itself. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0115par0097	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0116par0098	Mr. President, I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0115par0099	Mr. Secretary, your name is already in the 15th place. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0116par0102	Mr. President, I wish you success in our campaign for the Peace Fountain in Syria and wish you well to complete your duties and return home safely. Dear friends, the source of Turkey's security problems today is its position on the New Ottoman and Muslim Brothers line in foreign policy. This understanding distances Turkey from its national foreign policy, good relations with its neighbours, and peace in the country, peace in the world. The Selefi terrorists from all over the world crossed our borders through open border crossing policy and brought blood, tears, death to Syria, and returned the same blood and tears to our country. If we have PYD-YPG on our border today, it is because Syria was driven to instability and it was used by terrorist organizations. The AKP is responsible for the national security issues we face today and for our isolation in foreign policy. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0117par0105	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0118par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the 8th day of Operation Peace Springs, which we have launched against PKK/YPG and DEAS terror organizations in northern Syria. As of this moment, 637 PKK/YPG terrorists were neutralized east of Fırat. As our armed forces' operations continue with great determination, stop operations. They pressure us, explain sanctions. They're trying to silence our world news sources, especially TRT World, but they're not going to make it. The whole world must know that our goal is to destroy the corridor of terror that is being created at our southern border and to ensure that Syrian refugees return to their homes through the safe zone that we will create. As our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has said, the reactions we have witnessed in the last week are proof of who we have broken accounts for our region and for our country. Turkey has taken a vital step towards Operation Peace Fountain, at least as important as Operation Cyprus Peace in 1974. We are determined to carry out our operations regardless of threats and pressures. May the Lord protect our country, our nation, and our flag from the evil of the enemy, and help and help our mighty army, and make our country victorious in this great campaign.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0119par0112	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0120par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization's founding date, October 16th, is celebrated every year as World Food Day, as a theme, and this year's theme is our future. According to UN data, globalisation, urbanization and increased revenues lead to unhealthy nutrition, risk factors that cause deaths in non-communicable diseases around the world. Around 8 million people worldwide are struggling with obesity, while more than 820 million people are starving. About 1.3 billion tonnes of food produced every year in the world are being squandered. I salute the General Assembly with the wish of a world where no one hungers in all this hardship.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0121par0118	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0122par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. In a programme attended by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Services, we made a commitment to our temporary workers. Praise be to God, we have kept our word, and we have extended the working days of our temporary workers to nine months and twenty-nine days. Like all of our seasonal workers, the seasonal workers who worked at TEEYKUR are hopeful with this explanation, but the truth is, it was later discovered. The arrangement, which the Minister gives the news of, covers 1,064 temporary workers who run research and project activities in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry alone. ABOUT 9,500 seasonal workers who worked at CHIKUR are again forgotten and disappointed in themselves. From here, we call upon government officials once again and say put your hands on your conscience. HOW should our seasonal workers who work less than six months today and who work 12 months in Turkey can't make ends meet? We demand that our seasonal workers, who work at TEYKUR, also be addressed and their working hours extended.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0121par0122	Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0123par0124	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as it is known, are celebrated as the Imam-Hatips Week from October 13th to October 17th. I wish that the 68th anniversary of the founding of imam-hating schools, a walk in the footsteps of pioneers on the path of knowledge, wisdom and wisdom, brings blessings. The imam-hatiplers who want to be locked in the door are the elite educational institutions that have raised the president, the prime minister, the minister, the MP, the mayor, the bureaucrat and scientists. As the founder of the imam-hatips in Turkey and the first teacher of the imam-hatip generation, the pioneer of the imam-hatip generation, the late Celaleddin Ödden Ödek, who gave his life for the sake of youth, I hereby remember our teacher as an imam-hatip-educated MP with mercy and gratitude, God bless him and those who serve this cause. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0128	Mr. Gökcal...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0125par0130	Mr. President, because of the economic crisis, more than 7,000 tradesmen shut down in Mersin. An electronic foreclosure has been imposed on the bank accounts of the tax lender. Because of the economic crisis, the tradesman can't use his money at the bank. Since he had previously been unable to construct and pay taxes and bonus debts and pay them on time, the configuration is now facing major debts. The tradesman fell on default, and the shops of our merchants were impounded, and their vehicles were tied up. Let the shopkeeper work so he can pay his debt. If you impound the shop, if you tie up their vehicles, how will our shopkeepers and manufacturers pay off their debt? Our entire business must postpone checks, bonds, loans and social security debts and tax debts. A new debt configuration is urgently needed, including the previous term configuration. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0132	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0126par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. For the past three years, the American white butterfly has also been a major threat to forest areas in the Western Black Sea region, particularly areas of nut agriculture. The American butterfly, emitted from the mulberry and ash trees, is damaging the nut recollet to 40 percent. Agricultural directorates and the Department of Agriculture are unaware of the revelations of the situation, which they think they can fight once a year by handing out chemicals. What our ministry needs to do is to find out the areas that have been contaminated and possibly infected and the biological, physical, and chemical struggle together as soon as possible. I say it's the worst American white butterfly since Trump, from America, and I think the fight should be done effectively.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0136	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0127par0138	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to convey the message of a group of Kurdish grandfathers from Erzurum Karaçoban County, who say, "We express our gratitude to the Gazi Assembly, who took his mana from the brotherhood faith of the national will, his stance from the unity and unity of our noble nation: the epic struggle against the enemies of humanity who are trying to dry the fountains of peace. We express our gratitude to the Supreme Assembly that he has made history once again. To the global memory, in the expression of our Akif, faith is one in the heart of our front; joy is one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one. Isn't it true that if a man is struck, he will not be intimidated; if a man is destroyed, surely this front will not be moved? We repeat our gratitude to our lawmakers, to our party groups, to our martyrs.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0140	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0128par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. It was arranged for subcontractors with the decree under Law No. 696. The employees of the OSCE have not been given staff to public rental car drivers, hospital information processing workers, imaging centers and social facilities; they have not been given staff in forest workers, roads, railroads, and PTT. On February 8, 2018, nine months after we said, "We have given the staff to the KITs, the workers who want the staff, President Sivasta, we have finished." Finally, nine months after I said, today -- in the Official Gazette -- the workers were given staff in public economic initiatives; in this context, the struggle of the workers came to fruition. All remaining subcontractors, especially rental drivers in public, must be recruited. Work as a subcontractor must be terminated; whoever does the real work must be paid equal to the equal work, beyond the actual staff.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0144	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0129par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. While many people in our country with small income are under the burden of high taxes, reports are coming in that the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing for the import of sunflowers with zero customs taxes in the coming days. Does Mr. Erdogan, the head of the administration, know that the Minister of Agriculture is going to damage the state with tax exemption, especially with the exception of some importers? Because in public, Mr. Secretary claims that some firms with personal and political ties will be looked after, given more rights to import. The following must be done: 1) The import of sunflowers must be given equal rights to each company when local stocks are finished and need is needed. 2) The import of sunflowers with a zero customs tax should only be available to consumers to reduce the entire price on the shelves, or it will only cost the government a lot more than to pay the importer's rent. 3) For many years in sunflowers, support for $40 per ton should be increased, and production should be encouraged.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0148	Mr. Flitz...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0130par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Today (October 16th) is World Food Day, but reports now show that 821 million people in the world are threatened by hunger, and hunger and poor diet are caused by unfair sharing. As a result of the wrong agricultural policies in our country, the farmer has been crushed under debt, torn from agricultural production and land; even hay has been imported by the use of mera, barracks, and pedestrians, except for the purpose of the use of them. Thousands of agricultural, food and chemical engineers cannot find work. Although Turkey's arable land is 23 times greater than the Netherlands, the export of agricultural products is one-sixth of the Netherlands. With structural problems being quickly resolved and supported as in Western countries, Turkey's agricultural potential can be fully used and we can become a sufficient country, he says, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0152	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0131par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. It's World Food Day. Sustainable food production is the basis for sustainable nutrition. Seed rehabilitation should be the largest sector in our country in particular. The seeds from abroad can be planted for a year under the name Hibrid seed. The next year, the seed does not give it a chance to use itself as a seed again. This is especially dangerous for Turkey's future, especially in sunflowers, pumpkins, and such products as peppers, tomatoes, cucumbers. For this reason, for the food industry to function in a healthier way, there is no doubt that genetic engineering in our country will be considered in a healthy manner, and the food that is considered in a healthy manner...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0157	Here you go, Mr. Enginyurt.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0132par0159	Mr. President, from Vietnam to Pakistan, from Afghanistan to Iraq, Libya to Syria, from Indian to Negro, as the world's bloodiest killer state, the imperialist bloodsucker, has declared war on the state of the Republic of Turkey today and tried to judge the state bank of the Republic of Turkey in the United States, even though it had no interest. As a Turkish nationalist, I invite the Turkish nation, as a member of the Turkish nation, to support the People'sbank, to evaluate all of our small or large investments in the People'sbank, and in this period, the bloody killer, imperialist America's embargo says, "Thank you."
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0160	Mr. Yavuzylmaz...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0133par0162	Mr. President, I condemn the mentality of the girl who created an infinitive in Zonguldak, who wanted to tear down her vocational high school and replace it with a parking lot. The girls' upper secondary school, thousands of graduates, current students, dedicated teachers, especially women's professions, is an aesthetic school with high aesthetic value and sound construction value; the best example of the country development project of our Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which will be provided with the participation of women in the workforce is Zonguldak. We're not going to tear down our heart-valued school in order to build this parking lot that authorities forgot or deliberately missed while the hospital was doing the additional building project.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0163	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if they have demands now, I'll take turns making promises to the Deputy Directors of the Group. Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0134par0165	No, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0166	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0135par0167	No, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0124par0168	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0136par0170	Thank you. Mr. President, I don't have any words either. I'd like to say, but we have to rephrase the intense pressures here. The pressure on our party never stops, never stops. A few hours ago, during a press statement to our party members, including our MP Nuran Imir, in the district of Idil, Şırnak, our MP was attacked and taken to hospital. The report he wants to receive from the hospital is being threatened by law enforcement, and the hospital authorities are trying to prevent him from receiving it under pressure; I'd like to share it. It's become very routine for our MPs to be exposed to violence everywhere, with the public, with our members. Again, we shared yesterday, the detentions of Hakkari, Nusaybin, Ercish, Yüksekova Mayors are still in custody, our Youth Council Speaker and 10 members of our friends. Again, President of the Communist Party of Kurdistan Sinan Dubihirek was taken into custody at his home in Diyarbakır province in the morning. Sinan Duoheart is 67 years old and has a kidney disease; he was exposed to it because he had an anti-war attitude. We demand that these friends be released immediately. Yesterday, we were talking about -- and I'll just say this very briefly -- Mr. President, dear friends; and then we talked about a citizen who was beaten again because he spoke Kurdish, and then, after 50 days of treatment, lost his life struggle, and now there's a situation like this in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0137par0176	Here, complete it, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0136par0177	His wife Çanakkale is being treated at March 18 University Hospital, while another patient in her treatment room is being treated by her relative because they speak in Kurdish. This is what they call the Republic of Turkey. It's what they do with a bottle. It's what they do with a Kurdish bottle. You know, sometimes we don't agree that there's no such thing. But now that it's routine, Congress has to find a cure for it, at least start it from here: this separative language -- starting here -- is a reflection of this place, and we think that the talks of the representatives of the parties out here are a reflection of their approach. I'm saying this needs to be taken care of, thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0137par0179	Thank you, Mr. Survivor. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0138par0182	Mr. President, thank you. Today is World Food and Agriculture Day, but at this point, agriculture's GDP is getting lower and lower. 9 percent in 2010, today at 5.8. This is a concrete, clear indicator of how badly the AK PARTY governments are at fault with their agricultural policies. It's the same agriculturally. It is possible to see that in 2010, Turkey was reduced to 52 billion, 592 million dollars in agricultural revenues, while today it is 42 billion, 517 million dollars. Our friends, sir, can say that the dollar is from the skull. We see here that it's already in the fall trend when it's supposed to be in the growth trend, whether the dollar is dry or in dollars. Gene, the agricultural sector's employment share in 2010 was 23.3 per cent, while today it is 17.3. In short, when we look at it, Turkish agriculture is having a serious problem. While thinking of Turkish agriculture as an industry, we can no longer ignore that our small-income farmers, our citizens living in villages, are now in need of food. Thus, when taken into account, we have done good work in my organization, as our respected lawmakers who support the EC PARTY governments are helpless and naturally in everything. Their saying is not just to deceive the Assembly, but to deceive themselves, not just the nation. Of course, Parliament is the institution of remedy, and at this point, the House -- regardless of the party's distinction -- should all respected lawmakers must make an effort and effort to alert the government on the measures to the state of Turkish agriculture.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0139par0186	Here, complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0138par0187	We have a budget ahead of us, and we'll talk about it when this budget comes in. But it's important to say now that the farmer's condition has been reduced by this government, the AK PARTY governments, and we, the Republican People's Party Group, are prepared to make all kinds of contributions to solving the farmer's well-being, his peace, his happiness. We want to see the same effort and contribution naturally from the AK PARTY group and other groups. Mr. President, the second issue is that we are conducting an operation and action on the basis of counterterrorism based on our national security and border security. Here, in the State Secretary's presentation and evaluations of party groups, everyone has made this determination: Sir, the world is reacting to this operation. We don't decide that the world will react, apart from that.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0139par0190	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0138par0191	In the past, there have been reactions to some operations, and Turkey has acted in accordance with its national security. But we have to stress one thing: there are 189 countries, all of whom have ambassadors. Gene, a congressman said we all have to make an effort to ensure the support of the world, but you appreciate the most effort the ambassadors have to do. But when we look at the ambassadors appointed by the EC PARTI recently, it would be wrong to say that none of them, none of them, but we know that most of them are assigned to look at the driver's licenses, the merits, through co-friends, relatives, dudes. And yet, it's also true that these ambassadors don't have the ability or capacity to do the actual work they need to do there. Today, as if the whole world were united, there was a negative response to Turkey...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0139par0193	Put him through, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0138par0194	I'll put you through, sir. If the whole world today is saying the same thing to Turkey as if it is united in language, then you, the government, as well as the government, must be careful about appointing ambassadors with respect to the traditional values, style, understanding of Turkish foreign policy, as well as these ambassadors. The AK PARTY does not need to be ambassadors to the AK PARTY, to all those who served in the past in the EC PARTY. Turkey, sadly speaking, has now become a party state, and the appointment of ambassadors is the most concrete of all. I've submitted the High General Assembly's appreciation, knowledge and attention, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0140par0198	Thank you. Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0141par0201	Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, I'd like to make a very brief statement that we've been on the agenda of our House for two weeks, discussing an important legal proposal, in connection with the more effective use of rights and freedoms. At the same time, our representatives at the General Assembly support the formation of this law with their objections, hoping that we will complete it today, God willing. In that sense, I'd like to thank my fellow workers for their hard work. Hopefully, we'll have a pleasant evening. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0140par0203	Thank you, Mr. Rich. Dear lawmakers, under the decision taken, we are moving to the part of the agenda of the Court's Proposals and Other General Affairs from the Commissions. 1st ranked, Afyonkarahisar MP Ali Özkaya and Justice and Development Party Chairs İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush, Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan, Tokat MP Özlem Güzel, Çanırı MP Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu and Denizlı MP Cahit Özkan will continue their talks from where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Yesterday's merger was held in the motion of Article 18 of Article 105, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. There are three motions on the 18th article. I'm processing the motions according to the order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Article 18 be removed from the text of the Penal Code 105 and Amendment in some Laws. Mahmut Toğrul Garo Paylan Kemal Bulbül Züleyha Gülım Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Kemal Peköz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0142par0219	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0140par0220	Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0224	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, we are attacking the north of Syria. People live there. You know, that place you've been planning, where Mr. President showed on the map, over a million people live there. Who are these people friends? They're our relatives. There are Turks, Kurds, Arabs, Armenians, Suryans, Ezidians, so we have relatives. We're now killing relatives, brothers and sisters, uncles killing nephews, and to something like that, the House remains silent. Dear friends, who drew this line? A border was drawn there in 1921. We have a lot of friends who haven't seen that line, so go see. The border passes through villages; it is heard from the other side of the border spoken in one house, and when you shout in one city, they wave from the other. These are relatives of each other, and right now, this country is killing our relatives with all its resources, with its tank, with its cannon, with its gun. We're not supposed to accept that.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0144par0227	We're killing terrorists with those guns. You're lying!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0145par0228	We kill terrorists there, we don't kill relatives.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0229	Look, there are cities, villages, lives, people planting their fields, looking at their animals, and you know what we say?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0145par0230	What do you say?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0231	There, we will place 1 million people in existing cities.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0145par0232	We're killing terrorists out there.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0146par0233	We don't have relatives like that, terrorists get killed there.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0234	Where are you going to put a million people?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0147par0235	Scream, shout, we can't hear, shout louder!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0236	From there, you will place it in the homes of the people who are now immigrating. It's an assignment, guys. This is also a genocide attempt, according to the definition of the United Nations, according to Lemkin. We shouldn't accept that.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0148par0238	Get out of here! You're in the Turkish Parliament, Turk!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0239	Dear friends, playing with demography is a crime. Look, playing with demographics is a crime. 250,000 people have been displaced from their homes. In that sense, dear friends, 250,000 people have been displaced. If this operation succeeds, a million people will be displaced and who will be placed there?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0149par0240	Have fear of God.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0150par0241	It'll be a success.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0242	The Jihadist Salafi elements will be placed. Whose plan was this? It was the plan of Assad, the father. Baba Assad wanted to create an Arab belt. Here, unfortunately, the father is carrying out Assad's plan now in Turkey at the cost of creating friends and social traumas. I'll tell you who wins this operation.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0151par0244	You're losing, that's for sure.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0152par0245	The Turks are winning, Turks!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0246	Russia's winning, guys. Great, he wrote the script...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0151par0247	He's losing terror, he's losing terror!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0248	...has made way for you, and unfortunately, right now, his brother is killing under the plan of his brother, Russia. Look, we all learned from the Russians in middle school -- they wanted to land in hot seas, because of you, they settled in hot seas, and our entire southern border is under Russian rule.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0151par0249	Where are you supposed to be?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0250	Who else is winning? Iran is winning, my friends, and she's in a good mood because she's about to be created by the targeted Shiite Belt. In that sense, he's in a good mood. Who else is winning? ISIS wins, ISIS wins clearly. ISIS cells are now alive. Not the U.S., but Trump's goal is winning. What did Trump want? He wanted to get out, so he let you go, and now Trump's getting what he wants when his brother kills his brother, and he's pulling his troops out of there. Who else is winning, guys? Turkey gains racism. The pusher, the monotheist, wins, the pluralist loses, my friends. The goal is pluralism. He was winning a pluralist claim north of Syria, gaining the will to live together, and people respected each other's language, identity, ethnic origins, but right now, if what you're aiming at succeeds, he'll be a monogamist. Cerablus, Azez, go to the Afrin line, you'll only see selefi jihadists. You don't see one woman with her head open, they don't let her live, there's monogamy. Yeah, there's Kurds in them, there's Turks, there's Arabs, but they're all selefi jihadists, and they don't give anyone a life.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0153par0254	Where's the PKK, PKK?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0255	Dear friends, the whole world is against the operation, and the whole world considers it an occupation.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0154par0256	It's always a perception operation.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0143par0257	Against the EU, against the United States, against all European countries. Come on, you'll call them Christians, you'll call them Christian troops.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0155par0259	It's against the PKK, it's against the PYD.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0154par0260	The Turk has no friends but Turk.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0156par0261	Complete it, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0157par0262	So, the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0158par0263	Look at your Prime Minister, your Prime Minister.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0157par0264	He's a Turk, too. I congratulate him. A Turk should be at peace today against his Kurdish brother, against his Armenian brother. He said, "The fountain of peace is still flowing." He said, "Blood." Everyone must learn from the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0158par0265	Look at your Prime Minister.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0157par0266	Who else is against it? Against Palestine. Why? Because Israel is occupying Palestinian territory with the same arguments. Palestine is against this because Netanyahu's arguments are now in Turkey, unfortunately, the same arguments as this warrior's understanding, and are attempting to invade with the same arguments. Dear friends, Al Qaeda has been supporting this operation.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0159par0268	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0157par0269	As winners and losers, please and please stop locking up those who say "Peace" when Erdoğan says "war." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0160par0272	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0161par0273	That doesn't sound right.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0162par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0160par0275	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0162par0278	Mr. President, this speaker has chosen again to defame Turkey's initiatives with a number of provocative and false words, as it has since become quite clear from now on, the Operation Peace Fountain of the Turkish Armed Forces over there, lying and slandering.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0163par0279	Like Israel, he said.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0162par0280	I have such conviction that this person is a special-grown agent, a provocateur.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0164par0282	Mr. President, invite him to speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0165par0283	I'll promise you, I'll promise you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0162par0284	Turkey, with its operation...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0164par0285	No, invite him to speak in a clean language! What the hell is this?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0165par0286	I'll give you my word, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0162par0287	It teaches the whole world a lesson in humanity and civilization.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0166par0289	Bravo, Mr. Erkan!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0167par0290	He can't say "Agent" or "Agent."
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0168par0291	Says he.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0169par0292	The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and YPG have launched the genocide initiative. He can't talk to the PKK/YPG by ignoring it here.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0170par0294	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0169par0295	Turkey is fighting an exemplary war against the world in the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0171par0296	It's like Israel!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0169par0297	Sir, we're not going to get permission from him from the West, from the United States. Our future is for our country, for our country, for our country's existence, for its unity, for the safety of Syria and for the peace and security of the people in the north of Syria, for the peace of the region, Turkey. I quote these words, and I advise him not to repeat them because the infinitive that he creates in our society, unfortunately, is not going to be very positive; they're a turn-on, especially, and he's doing these conversations on purpose.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0172par0300	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0173par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0174par0302	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0172par0303	Mr. Paylan, I'll give you my word on your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0174par0305	Mr. President, a member of parliament was called aajan, a provocateur.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0175par0306	First it's time to speak to the AK PARTY Group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0174par0307	I'd like you to do a procedure on this.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0176par0308	What's he gonna do? You're the one who called me a bandit. He said he might be an agent.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0177par0309	He's got to do something about you, too.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0178par0310	Is that all you want to say?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0179par0311	No, no; then I demand word, and then I demand word of taunting.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0178par0312	I'll give you my word if you want to.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0180par0313	He needs to be processed, he needs to be performed by Paylan.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0179par0314	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of bullying, but first I'd like you to proceed with this statement.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0178par0315	I'll consider it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0181par0317	You need to be processed, you!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0182par0318	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0178par0319	Mr. Dervisoglu, I've seen it, I promise you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0183par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0178par0321	Mr. Dervisoglu has a voice request. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0184par0324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, the preacher spoke on the stand, and he said a lot of things that needed to be talked about, and he took advantage of a lot of arguments. As of its Netic, the Turkish Armed Forces are operating beyond the border for its own safety and the existence of its nation, with the power vested in it by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The connection of this process to genocide and evaluation, which, to be honest, is an extremely noticeable situation by myself, and I want it corrected, and I don't understand it in any way. In addition, when we speak about these matters, we must avoid provocative expressions. So the relatives are killing each other there. If he says so, all the relatives are here.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0185par0328	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0184par0329	People from all parts of society, all age groups, all income groups are here; the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in one way or another, gives this average. It is my belief and belief that not one relative of those present at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has gone. But if any of them lose a relative, they are our brave sons in our security, and I remember them once again with gratitude and grace and mercy. I also condemn and express my regrets that these provocative statements have been used so harshly from the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0185par0332	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0334	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I just made a very brief introduction, but I think I see we're talking in the air. Now, we have a forensic package, and we're discussing it, and you're expecting at least two sentences from the judge to say. What do you hear, and what do you hear? Each one is something that needs to be corrected, contested. For one thing, he compares this very important action by the Turkish Republic soldier to Israel's invasion of Palestine, saying he uses similar arguments.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0187par0336	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0337	Does that make sense? Shame on you! Oh, my God! It's a conscience! El mind! You have to sort them out one after the other. To follow up, he says: "You object to the West as Christians. " I will not pronounce the secret message under it, but he understood it himself. What do you mean, "Christian"? Where does that come from?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0188par0340	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0341	He says worse, he says, "There's not a woman in the region with her head open. " It's really unconscionable. Why? It's got to be divided, Christian, Muslim, head open, covered, split! I just told you yesterday, what do you mean, seleficent? I'm going to hang myself here, so that's not possible.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0189par0342	Garo doesn't know what it's like to be a selephist, to be a selfie.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0343	I'll follow up. He says he's a contractor, look, he's using one of the most important wounds in this country. What's that got to do with it? Are we the ones who terrorized that region of Syria that made the land that way today, my friends?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0189par0344	PKK/YPG.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0345	Exactly, the PKK/YPG, the imperialist forces, have made it completely out of control, so how will Turkey cope with this disaster that has happened to it? You're saying worse: "I'm a commoner. "
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0190par0346	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0347	Yeah, that's the harshest thing to say to a country person. Like Israel, say that we are working against Christianity, that we are attacking women with their heads open, and that they are called genocide, and that they are called division.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0190par0348	Full disclosure, Mr. President, should be punished.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0191par0350	Let's complete it, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0351	Tonight, our friends, friends, let's lower our speakers, calm down, at least without hurting each other, we know our ideas, so we've been arguing about the same thing for days. I beg you, for God's sake, don't do those things that shoot you in the face, you're getting really hurt.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0192par0352	Ma'am, what are these?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0186par0353	Don't be unfair to these people, that's the last thing I'll say. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0193par0356	Thank you. Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0194par0359	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, now, of course, we will continue these discussions. But it really hurts people very close to us. Look, Mr. Vice President of the Good Party, he just said that maybe no one here has died. Our group counselor -- he's working upstairs now -- while his son and nephew work at the workplace, the bomb goes down, and he loses two members of his family. Now, sir, look...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0195par0362	That's terror!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0196par0363	Who threw it, who? Who threw the bomb at these innocent people and his uncle's son?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0194par0364	How do you know who threw it? Neither do we. We're trying to make a point, and what we're trying to tell you is that where did the bomb come from once it was entered into a war environment? Where did it fly from?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0195par0366	Who threw it, who?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0194par0367	You live in the Joint Chiefs? This is the Clave. We say because we're discussing something political: war is bad, and when war begins, innocent people die during the war, and soldiers die. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we're saying that we're against the war.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0197par0371	I don't think you heard what we talked about.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0198par0372	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0199par0374	Guys, don't talk to our Group President, we're not doing the same thing?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0198par0375	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0200par0376	Quiet! That's enough, take your time!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0198par0378	Congressmans, please calm down. Here you go, Mr. Oluç, finish your words.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0201par0380	Listen, guys, while the group's acting president is talking, we've told your deputy group president over and over again.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0198par0381	Complete your words, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0202par0382	Guys, let him talk for a minute, and I'll answer them.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0203par0383	Thank you. I mean, that's what we're trying to say, that a war environment can hurt everyone, that it can hurt anyone close to us, because they don't listen to my problem. Let me make this clear. Second: We understand the criticisms of Mr. Akçay, deputy director of the MHP Group, but I mean, it's certainly not something that we can really accept when he describes a deputy as a provocateur, a provocateur. We may have different ideas.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0204par0387	That's a compliment.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0205par0388	Let's finish, please, Mr. Oluç. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0206par0390	We can criticize them hard, but the definition of aajan, a provocateur, is certainly not acceptable.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0207par0391	He tried to compliment me.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0206par0392	We think the Deputy Director of the Group should make the necessary correction. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0208par0394	Thank you, Mr. Oluç. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0209par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. I suppose all our esteemed lawmakers in this House agree that terrorism is a crime of humanity. There's a saying to me: no right demand for terrorism, legitimacy, does not give the terrorist innocence, does not win. There's another saying: There is no sound of a cry of peace in the shadow of guns. Thus, terrorism is a crime of humanity by action, yes, but to judge thought and punish it is something close to it. I don't agree with much of what Mr. Paylan says, I reject some of his statements, and there are some very true things he says. But if this is the House, if this is the place to speak, everyone will speak freely.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0208par0400	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0209par0401	No doubt we can all look at this operation from different windows, from different variants; this is the right of every political party; it is the nature of it that parties differ from their views. Of course, national policy is one. That's the way we look at it. But I've said one thing from the beginning: this operation shouldn't be the object of internal policy, political vote consolidation in this Parliament and in other political areas. I humbly invite all of our deputies and political parties to comply with this issue, without my place. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0208par0406	I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request the amendment of Article 18 of the Law Proposal for Amendments to Penal Code 105 and some Laws. 1 year in the first joke of Article 102 of the Law 18 - 5271. It's been six months. And his second joke was 'two years.' His statement has been changed to a year and six months, and the sentence after the 'tomalum' in his second joke will not pass six months by being removed from effect. It has been added. " Turan Aydoğan Albay Antmen Zeynel Emre Süleyman Gülbül Ali Mahir Başır Aydın Özer Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0210par0418	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0208par0419	On the motion, Mersin MP Ali Mahir Akarir has asked for a promise. Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0422	I salute the General Assembly. The judicial reform we've been waiting for for months, waiting for our citizens, waiting for prisoners and prisoners has finally arrived in the House. Yeah, we were expecting a reform, too, but when we look at a lot of this stuff, it looks like everything but reform. What I regret is that for months, people, citizens, innocent prisoners, the emotions of the prisoners have been played in vain. In 2005, you changed the entire penal code; you brought reform in 2009, you handed it over to the government; you are reforming again. I don't think you should reform at all, but after every reform you've made, the country's going through some kind of disaster. What you have given as a right here, what you have described as a right, has already been given to the sons of the hand at Magna Carta, 1215, 805 years ago. Now that you've brought in some provisions regarding the lawyers, you've brought in a green passport. Most of our lawyers can't afford to travel from their homeland to the Supreme Court. How can they go abroad? Look, I don't mean every county, you've opened law schools to every neighborhood; you've appointed veterinary, French-language graduates, theologians as deans, and thousands of lawyers who have graduated from there today are present. I don't think you should reform. Dear lawmakers, you don't know the state of the judiciary; let me tell you something -- it happened yesterday, it's a sad event -- you know the state of the judiciary, so try to reform. Judge Nilüfer Khevemlı served in Istanbul; he was a successful, honest, honorable judge; he was not being instructed by anyone; he was also diabetic, he had scars on his feet, he was being treated in Istanbul. The Council of Judges and Prosecutors has appointed him to Kahramanmarash without cause, without reason, without time.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0212par0427	Isn't that the country, Heromare?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0428	Home. I wish you could see every country.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0212par0429	How do you know I didn't see it?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0213par0430	For God's sake! It's like you're the only one who sees it!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0431	And he petitioned me to be treated in Istanbul, Ankara. He said, he submitted his reports; unfortunately, the Board claimed the reports were false. These reports went to Forensics, and forensics found that the reports were real. She was upset and devastated and retired, and we lost her yesterday. Yeah, well, that's the judgment. Do you know why this is the Justices and Prosecutors' Board? You're throwing out your members. Why is the Supreme Court like this? You're throwing. You're going to reform; if we're going to talk about reform, set that board free, make it a free board. Look at the judges, they're the backyard of your party. Isn't it a pity that you taught us the concept of a party judge for the first time?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0214par0433	Administratorial judgment...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0434	I'll answer him. Those who are not members of the AKP are not judges and prosecutors. Yes, look, they had appointed judges in their time, but a judge appointed in their time did not bomb this Assembly in a low way! There are judges in the national opinion that were appointed during their time; they are still doing their duty. You know what those judges and prosecutors can be right now is what the D.A. can be, and what the hell he can be, and why? Because honest people don't get instructions from you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0215par0436	For God's sake!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0437	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0215par0438	For God's sake!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0439	Yeah, yeah. Mehmet Moğultay, Saifi Oktay, Oltan Sungurlu...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0216par0440	No judge, you can't put the prosecutor under suspicion, you can't put the trial under suspicion.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0441	The judges who were appointed were looking for only one thing - literature, scores, whether they were patriots. Now, I'm looking at your 17-year ministers, and if we round them up, a Seyfi Oktay isn't worth Mehmet Moğultay, know it, it won't. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If you're going to do a reform... look, prosecutors watching TV in this country are going to investigate in the morning...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0217par0445	Here, complete it, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0446	...the detention order is issued at noon, the arrest is made at noon, six months later the indictment, the original sentence and the severe sentence are issued, the Supreme Court and the recrimination agree with it at the speed of the jet. Two years later, he's acquitted with a violation of his rights. You don't answer for those two years in your conscience, you don't have that conscience, but since you're going to reform, come, as it was before 2005, you know your party justice judges, bring legal and criminal responsibility to their decision.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0218par0447	You can't put judges and prosecutors of the legal state under suspicion.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0448	Let's see, for two years, and for an acquitted citizen, you give compensation to that judge, you get one, you get one, he pays one, he thinks a thousand, not a thousand, five hundred times. That's reform. Can you do it? You can't. Look, yesterday was the wrong... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm telling you, in the course of the investigation, there will be a non-obsession order...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0219par0452	Come on, that's enough! That's enough!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0453	In the course of prosecution, the Home Secretary will give him the final word. There's no such thing as a freak anywhere in the world.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0220par0455	Thank you, Mr. Successor. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0457	My last sentence...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0220par0458	Here, finish your sentence.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0211par0459	If you're going to reform, go out into the street, go to prisons, look at the victims of a check, you know, but you don't go out on the street. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0220par0462	Thank you, Mr. Successor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0221par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0220par0465	Mr. Survivor, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0221par0466	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0220par0467	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0221par0470	Thank you. Mr. President, we've just had a request, and we've been called a special agent and a provocateur. We've been asked to fix this, but it's been passed. It's very difficult for us to be involved in these discussions of the House, in hearings that we can't continue like this. We, as a group, feel that we need to take a break and have some consultations.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0222par0472	Do your bidding.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit03spe0223par0473	Yes, thank you, Mr. Survivor. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0223par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, I need to make a brief statement before continuing negotiations with Law Proposal 105. For the past two days, the General Assembly -- and today -- has emerged talks and attitudes that have raised tension, which have made it difficult for the debate to work in democratic maturity. I think everyone knows this isn't supposed to happen, but I want to remind you again. In terms of democratic debate, democratic maturity is especially important for individuals not to be used for incriminating, violent accusations. The Civil Code is essentially a liability to us. I hope that all lawmakers, especially members of the group, will pay attention to these issues, I believe, in the following talks. Also, I'd like to ask you all specifically. Dear MPs, we now resume the talks of Law Proposal 105. The commission is in place. I'm reading the final motion on Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the fourth joke added to Article 102 of Penal Code 5271, which is being replaced by article 18 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to certain Laws, shall be changed in the following way. In any case, the total detention period cannot exceed a year in terms of the work that does not take place in the criminal court, and 18 months in terms of the work that falls into the heavy court. The second book of Turkish Penal Code 5237 does not exceed three years in crimes described in Sections Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh, and in Articles 12/4/1991 and under Anti-Terror Law 3713. This also determines the prosecutor's time to prepare the indictment. Dursun Atash Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Hasan Subaş Behic Çelik Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0224par0023	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0223par0024	The motion is for the statement of Antalya MP Hasan Subaş. Here you go, Mr. Subas. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0225par0028	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a promise to discuss Article 18 of the Law Proposal 105. Article 18 is a provision for arrests, as you know. And very important arrests because the number of arrests reached 95,000 -- in 2018 -- has reached 150,000 prisoners. Therefore, the prisons are full, and the European Court of Human Rights sentences Turkey to arrest at all times. This law has really needed a change, but does it count as reform? Of course, as I said in my speech on the whole, it is still beneficial that the law does not have a law on reform proposals, but is reduced to a year in hard labour, and that the harsh sentence is reduced to six months in non-committee matters. It's kind of narrowed down the initiative of prosecutors because, as we all know, prosecutors were able to maintain detention for years without even making indictments and taking the time of prosecution, we saw years of imprisonment being implemented in Turkey, like an execution. The arrests, as we all know, are a precaution, but Turkey has been used as an execution. We, the GOOD PARTY, suggested that these times be a year, in any case, if they don't enter into the subject of the criminal court. In terms of severe punishment, a year and a half under the Anti-Terror Act, we have proposed that three years be limited to those involved, but we have demanded that prosecutors' prepared indictments be determined by these times. Why would we want that? In 2016, as we all know, a claim was made against Mr. Coral Akshener, our president, and it's confidential, and we don't know what it is. However, we know that the Chief of Staff on the matter of 2016 was completed despite being 224 defendants, but the issue of our president is still uncertain whether he is a relative or a political foot or another claim. Mr. President, call me at all times, and I'll give my statement at the prosecutor's office. Despite what the prosecution has said, the indictment is not being set up. AS A GOOD PARTY Group, our motions to investigate the Parliament are also rejected by the ruling vote on the political foot of ▪. Then it turns out that by this motion, we say that prosecutors do not have the mobility and initiative they wish during detention, but they can't still use the time they want to file indictments. Since Mr. President is a politician, do we use it as leverage, hand in hand, let alone an investigation? Is it a means of oppression or a means of threat? Everything comes to mind.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0226par0034	Come in, Mr. Subas, complete, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0225par0035	For him, it is absolutely necessary that prosecutors, in cases that are not under arrest, also form an indictment, be committed to a process. And the judges and prosecutors have been able to lock him up for years, and the troubled court decisions, and... we all know that justice that should be blindfolded is open-minded in Turkey, and we look up at the instructions, they've been looking up at the political instruction and direction of the adult. For him, I also wish that compensation should be valid in the criminal cases in Italy, in England, in Germany, in Switzerland, in France as well as in Turkey. Turkey has it too, but the state... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me for one more minute, I'll get it together.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0227par0039	We decided not to do that together. You say the words, and I won't give you any more time, Mr. Subbasin.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0225par0040	Oh, yeah? I'll wrap it up right away, all right. I think that at a certain rate in Turkey, at least using the right to procreation will bring a very serious discipline and regulation on this issue. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0228par0045	Thank you, Mr. Subas. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are four motions on the 19th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 19 of Article 19 be removed from the text of Article 19 of the Law Against the Law on Penal Code 105 and Changes in Some Laws. Mahmoud Toğrul Kemal Peköz Mensur Light Kemal Ulbül Zuleyha Gülim Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0229par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0228par0057	Muş MP Mensur Light has requested a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly. Mr. President, there was a package that the AKP's government recently brought to Parliament under the name of the package of justice. After that package, I really want to open it with a few examples of whether or not there is a judicial package or whether there is reform. We have a friend called Abdurrahman Çapın, our party friend, our co-chair. His daughter joins the organization, joins the organization's mountain staff. A man who went to see his daughter as a father. He returns after seeing his daughter, and the photos of his meeting with his daughter are somehow in the hands of the security forces, and he's being sued for membership, and he's only being punished because he's only seen his daughter. That's the first one. Secondly, Besra Erol is friends. Besra Erol is a mother whose child was killed in the Suruç massacre by ISIS, which AKP has allied and supported. Besra Erol is detained, arrested, and is currently on trial for membership in the organisation after a speech made at her son's funeral, after a year, two years. This is the second, in terms of the nature of the judicial package brought by the AKP. The third is Hikmet Sugar, again from Mush. Hikmet Şeker, the son of Şeker, was sentenced for membership in the organization and was staying in Diyarbakır D-type Prison. In a sick way, three days a week, he was taken to the hospital for four days a week, and the death of Celal Sugar, who had not been released by the coroner's office after the AKP and the CHP's alliance at that time, had died, and his funeral came to Mush. Hikmet Şeker is now on trial for attending his son's funeral, for burying his own son and for setting up a condolence tent for his son. Elif Çetinbaş was our co-chair in protests during the Kobani process, and he is currently a member of the organization for participating in those protests, and he has been in prison for three years, and he has been in prison for 11 years. I'm afraid that's the nature of the judicial packages brought by the AKP. Now we're looking at another package of judgment. The Chinese have a saying, my friends, that when they start preaching, keep an eye on your chickens.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0231par0069	That's what you read.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0070	Yeah, that's right, I'm reading it because...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0232par0071	Who's the fox? You?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0072	Everyone knows who the fox is, Turkey knows the public. The fox is now...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0232par0073	You're a terrorist advocate, and you're standing right here in front of us.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0074	No disrespect, no interference.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0232par0075	Don't be disrespectful.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0076	Dear friends, the process is very angry, the process is very difficult. Today, if the Kurdish issue has become an international issue, it is because the state of the Republic of Turkey left the Kurdish problem unresolved. Today the Kurdish issue is discussed by the European Union, NATO is discussing the Kurdish issue, today the Arab League is discussing the Kurdish issue, all Arab countries we know as the Arab League are coming together, and it considers Turkey's attempt on Syria as an occupational case, and considers it a war on Kurds. That's how the United States sees it, that's how the European Union sees it. So if you, us, the Kurds and the Turks from a hundred years ago, cannot resolve the Kurdish issue in accordance with the spirit of the alliance of Kurds and Turks in Sivas and Erzurum Congress, then the civil war is inevitable in this country, and the international forces will place their finger, everyone will place their finger.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0232par0077	He's campaigning for civil war.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0078	Dear friends, a few, a month and a half ago, Mr. Ocalan said as a result of his meetings...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0233par0079	He's the baby killer.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0232par0080	You're propaganda for civil war.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0081	If the Kurds and Turks form an alliance together, they will survive the process. Kurds can't be Turkish-free, Turks can't be Kurdish-free." he said. Look, valued MPs, the Turkish Grand National Assembly is a place where problems are solved, where they are discussed, it's an institution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a sacred institution where the foundations of this country and the state are laid. Why do we say that? Because in the 1919s, when the first Assembly was established in the 1920s, when it was opened -- the east and southeast name of the region was changed later -- it was called the curdistan mebusu to MPs from the Kurds, and the Kurds could come and speak in their native language in the Parliament, and they could discuss their own problems. Until when? Until the denial and assimilation of the Kurds were decided by the mindset of Admission and Terakki. What happened after the decision was made? The Kurds tried to rebel. Here is Sheikh Sait's rebellion, Dersim's rebellion, Ağrı, Zilan and the latest PKK rebellion.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0234par0084	Complete, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0085	Dear friends, dear friends, you don't have to look at PKK's rebellion that way. That's exactly what the late President of this country, Demirel, said, there are 28 Kurdish riots, and that's the 29th one, that's how we're going to figure it out, just the way we figured it out. No, friends, in this country, if we still have the will, the will to live together, you have to solve this matter. I'll tell you this: the operation against Afrin, the reaction and initiatives to the Kurdish referendum in southern Kurdistan, as today's initiative in Syria means that Kurds, along with this state, would like to live with the Turks. Let me make this very clear from here one more time. From now on, I'm telling you, the last thing I'm saying is, we need to get our heads together. This is the place to resolve matters, the union of the masses and Turks, as Mr. Ocalan said...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0235par0088	Baby killer...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0089	...the Kurds can't be without Turkish, and the Turks can't be without Kurds, they shouldn't be without Kurds.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0236par0090	How do you call the terrorist leader Mr. Ocalan? Why do you call the terrorist leader Mr. Ocalan?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0235par0091	Murderer...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0230par0092	I'm saying that together, we need to bring this country to a democratic level. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0237par0095	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the change of Article 19 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to Penal Code 105 and some Laws that are being held in the following way. Turan Aydoğan Albay Antmen Zeynel Emre Rafet Zeybek Aydın Özer Süleyman Bulbül Ünal Demirtaş İsmail Atakan Üsver The sentence "crimes against women and children" is excluded from the scope of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0238par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0237par0108	Karaman MP İsmail Atakan Üsver has requested a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ünver. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0239par0112	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're discussing so-called judicial reform and the first package related to it. Is there a need for judicial reform in Turkey? Of course there is, and it's violent and it's urgent. However, there can be no reform with strategy documents and law proposals that do not touch the basic issues of the judiciary. Dear MPs, I would especially like to address those who have ruled the country for 17 years: if you see judicial activity as a service to citizens of the Justice Department, which is no different from the other ministries of the one man's regime, you cannot reform the judiciary unless you view the judiciary as one of the three main functions of the state and one of the founding elements. There is no doubt that judgment has more meaning and value than is defined as pure justice service. When you were describing the regime of the only man you brought in under the conditions of the State of Emergency, you said that separation of forces, that's one of the forces you call dissolution. How quickly did you forget? The clause is being arranged for a postponement of the lawsuit. We have no objection to this arrangement, but we have a warning and a suggestion. The main thing is what is the perception of crime by the enforcers and those with political power? With the guidance of politicians, the unpublished book is described as a member of the terrorist organization as a bomb, a right-seeking worker, then there is no point in making such arrangements. If that's understanding, no matter how you change the text, you can't establish the rule of law or the state of law. The main thing is to be able to change the law in their heads. In this context, for example, the constitutional lawyer Professor Kemal Eyeler, asked Hoxha why he hadn't written anything about the YSK decision that cancelled the March 31st Istanbul election, and he replied: "I suspect that the law presented as the law in effect in Turkey is in effect. I'm looking at the law that's been said to be in effect, and I feel like I'm dealing with it. How naive it is to discuss issues legally, not legally, but politically, in a place where legal matters are settled. I'm a member of the pure theory of the law, but I'm not naive. He says and goes on. Since the courts have decided according to law, the decisions of the courts can be foreseeable if they are known on the basis of which rule of law they will decide in a particular case. That is the meaning of the rule of law. As far as I can see, it is journalist Nagehan Alçül, who predicted that the YSK would cancel the Istanbul elections in the first place. Interestingly, while the country's most senior professors of constitutional law were wrong, the prediction of Nagehan Plaçı was correct. Constitutional law professors can't rightly predict what the decision of the YSK will be because it's unclear how the YSK decides. Therefore, the deep legal knowledge of constitutional law professors is of no use. Here you are, after 17 years, making everything known to the law useless. The legal knowledge of the law and the genius law have no meaning in your rule of law. You've attached the law to what does one man want? The point is, as George Orwell said in 1984, nothing was actually illegal because there was no law anymore. A criminal court in this country did not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. In this country, the YSK ruled that free ballots and envelopes would be considered valid in the referendum, ignoring open law. In this country, the national army was framed, the cosmic room was entered. Who made these decisions? Courts. What did you do when law in this country was led to revolting jurisprudence? First you walk in the same range as some, or you think so, and then we clean them up. You make lawyers, judges, prosecutors, who work in your agencies with opportunisticism. Now there will be justice for us and for the Turkish people. And you expect us to believe it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0240par0120	Here, finish your words, Mr. Ünver.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0239par0121	There's no justice here, fellas, no way out, no way out. There's no point in writing it, writing it, writing it in the law, if every word in the country will continue to be perceived as a crime by politicians or those who don't like the idea of ruling politics. So, if we're going to reform the judiciary and talk about reforming the judiciary, we should start here. We've been telling it for 17 years; we've told it on September 12, 2010; we've told it on April 16, 2017; we're still telling it, but unfortunately it's the hardest job in the world. As soon as you tell him, he doesn't want to understand because he doesn't want to. Whether it's hard, whether you want to understand it or not, we'll keep telling you. Even if you don't understand, our great nation understands. My regards to the great Turkish nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0241par0125	Yes, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 1771 of Law No. 5271, which is being replaced by Article 19 of the Law Against the Law on the Amendment and Some Laws, including the crimes in Article 171 (part of the Article 171) taken into consideration and pre-payment, the Republican Prosecutor's Office shall be subject to the complaint and propose that the notice be added after the statement. Dursun Atash Ayhan Erel Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0242par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0241par0135	Konya MP Fahrettin will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Hill. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0243par0139	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The draft of the law of the package package brought into our House is a bag of laws, as it is known. Justice, judgment, rights and law are too important to fit into a package. Unfortunately, in our country, trust in the justice system is diminishing day by day. The restructuring of our judicial system is essential. But setting up the judicial system in the form of a bag of laws won't solve the problems. We need a complete democracy to make justice possible in our country. The foundation of real democracy is the forces, the separation. That's the only way we can clear the way for a fair trial. In modern times, in interstate trade relations, justice is a primary factor. In a country where justice and law don't work fair, investors don't come, loans don't come. Such countries are referred to as the most notorious and unreliable societies in the nation. And there's no right or law in a country without justice. There are judicial scandals in our country every day. The Turkish judiciary has a double standard. The majority of the decisions made by the courts are being debated, and the judiciary publicly protects the ruling party. It used to be said that the heads of the higher judicial body were trapped between their consciences and wallets for judges, but today, thankfully, your government has paid us what our judges deserve, but today our judges are stuck between their consciences and power. The judgment is not of his own free will. When we look at some court decisions, the fact is that, unfortunately, the law is being carried back by coercion interpretations, and people are being blamed and punished. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers, first of all, the arbitrary arrest decisions issued by the judicial body must be resolved. There are no hard evidence, but arrest warrants are made against people. Although no evidence has been found to justify the arrest as a result of the study on individuals, the arrest of many people remains arbitrary. This is a violation of the right to freedom of person. The continuation of the imprisonment of people who have no evidence of a crime is contrary to basic values of Turkish law, basic rights and freedoms in the Constitution, universal principles, human rights and freedoms. We've seen prosecutors change their minds with the power and contribution of visual media when there's an incident that hurts society's conscience. When making a decision, the public must make decisions without being influenced by written and visual media, without hurting its conscience. The law has to work right to avoid clouding the independence of judgment. This is possible by implementing the Constitution and universal laws. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you from here examples of the lack of confidence in Turkey's judiciary every day. Minister of Justice Mr. Abdulhamit Gul, in a 2014 speech in Bursa, said: "In Turkey, trust in the judiciary has been reduced to less than 20 per cent in the 70 per cent, while its presumptions on the judiciary have now been reduced to 20 per cent." • Turkish Bar Association President Metin Feyzioglu speaking in 2016, "Our judiciary has been under the influence of politics." (ÇT/TK) Again, the Supreme Court's President, Ismail Rüş Cirit, said that in the past, trust in the judiciary was 70 per cent, and now it is down to 30 per cent.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0244par0145	Here, please complete, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0243par0146	In a survey of the Social Democracy Foundation in 2019 across Turkey, 26.2 per cent of the voter from the EC PARTY say that the judiciary is not independent in Turkey. 16.1% say they do not trust the judiciary, while 22.1% say the courts are not neutral. As far as I'm concerned, there's no trust in justice in our country. ▪ Justice is the foundation of property. Today, the confidence of a nation who chose its understanding as its way has disappeared. To restore the understanding of the rule of law for the future of our country is the debt of those who rule the country, I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0244par0149	Thank you, Mr. Uphill. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal 105 is currently in session. We propose and propose that the sixth joke added to the same clause (a) will be replaced in the following manner. Özlem Rich Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Necip Nasir İsmail Emrah Karayel Bekir Force Erim ίa) Crimes committed within the scope of the organization's activities and crimes of establishing, managing, or joining the organization. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0245par0162	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0244par0163	There is no demand for word on the motion.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0246par0164	Motive...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0244par0165	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to increase the number of crimes involved in the three-year extension of the two-year limit for the motion to postpone the opening of the public case and thus delay the opening of the public case. In this case, crime-making, management, or membership in a criminal organization is excluded from the scope. I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 19th article has been accepted. There are three motions on the 20th article, which I will read and process according to the order of contradiction: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 20 of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. "The first paragraph of Article 174 of Law 20 - 5271 has been changed as a sign that "it will affect" in the following way and (b) in the following way. When the indictment is brought to trial, it is served by the court to inform the parties. The parties may object to the indictment in seven days. According to the court, all documents and objections regarding the investigation phase within seven days of the end of the appeal period have been examined, with missing or wrong points specified; Turan Aydoğan Süleyman Nightingale Rafet Zeybek Alpay Antmen Aydın Özer Zeynel Emre Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0247par0182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0244par0183	The motion has a request for the statement of Giresun MP Necati Çıllı. Here you go, Mr. Mumble. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0248par0187	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Article 20 of the proposal is related to the extradition of Article 174 of the Penal Code. When we look at the changes that have been made here, it is impossible to say that an adequate arrangement has been made, but the main problem in the Turkish judicial system is much more severe. Congressmans, can we talk about a fair trial and a fair trial in Turkey? Stop talking about fair trial, is there an impartial and independent judiciary in Turkey? I'm afraid not. I address the ruling party MPs: Are you going to establish an independent and impartial judgment by making judges and prosecutors of all AKP boroughs? Let me make this clear: How many AKP executives, member judges and prosecutors have been made in my constituency district of Giresun? By the way, can you vouch for their integrity, for their neutrality? Do you trust them? If you're a guarantor, if you trust them, you're part of their mistake. Members of parliament, the precondition for establishing a fair, neutral and independent judiciary in Turkey is to free the Council of Judges and Prosecutors from the direction of political power. Even worse, the sole responsibility for the point of women's murders in Turkey is the Justice and Development Party's power because women's murders are political, not individual. Don't those murders of hundreds of brutally murdered women and children have any effect on the good behavior discounts given to those who wear ties, the cult members, the advocacy media chatter, and some ruling members who justify violence against women? For precisely these reasons, all laws made here should be prepared with common mind and by universal norms, never, never, never brought to an end; the voice of all segments, all political parties, all NGOs must be heard; the bag must be abandoned immediately. Congressmans, why do judges, prosecutors and lawyers who serve to uphold the rights of those seeking law and justice have no buttons on their robes? So they don't button it in front of anyone. So why isn't there a pocket? So they can make neutral and independent decisions, of course. But with the opening of the year of the judicial year being held at 5tepe. The buttons and pockets of the robes were placed under the feet of the judge. Whoever is undermining the judgment will one day be in need of that judgment. Such interference in an unindependent, non-biased judiciary will not solve the problem. The solution to problems is inclusive regulations, first independent and neutral judiciary, then the Constitution. Otherwise, people will continue to seek justice on social media platforms, and when the good people of my country are wronged, they will try to announce their voices by tagging us all on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook. Some of the partial changes made in this proposal are not called judicial reform, but they are called make-up. Precious MPs have been arrested for four hundred and seventy-six days in Eren Erdem, whose entire life has been fighting the fight. In the same way, isn't it proof that the judiciary is acting on instructions to be put in prison after the Istanbul elections, given the excuse of the fucking Tweet (tweet) that our city president Canan Kaftancıoğlu, who owns every single game? This injustice, this injustice, must be ended at once. Remember, if one person is defeated, the rights of the entire community have been defeated, and it is the duty of lawmakers who serve in this great House. But make no mistake, there is a party and a leader in this country who is fighting against injustices, unlawfulness, and remorselessness; that party is called the Republican People's Party, and that leader's name is Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0249par0196	Go ahead, complete it, Mr. Pip, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0248par0197	Our struggle against the cruelty and injustice you have created will never end. Be just, be just. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0249par0200	I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 20 of the Law Against the Law shall be changed in the form of Article 105, which is in accordance with Article 20. Mahmut Toğrul Kemal Peköz Mehmet Rüşç Tiryaki Kemal Ulbül Zuleyha Gülim Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0250par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0249par0210	Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki has requested a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0251par0214	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the amendment to Article 174, titled the extradition of Penal Code 5271. I salute you all. First of all, I would like to point out that we are not opposed to regulations regarding the extension of the extradition institution in general, but the regulation will not respond to the need because there is no impact or authority for extradition of the accused and the victims. Therefore, before opening the trial, but before starting the identification and questioning, the defendants and the victims and their deputies must be able to demand the extradition of the indictment, and the court must not begin to prosecute until the verdict has been made. There's no doubt that our country needs a judicial reform, but I would like to call this first package that we're meeting today, let alone reform, not even the current problems of the judicial mechanism, to say that it's not close to resolving its current problems. See, any right, such as the use of constitutional rights, the use of basic rights and freedoms, the use of the most basic human rights, the expression of thoughts, the ability to conduct a meeting and demonstration march, the ability to conduct a press release, is between the power, the Home Secretary, the governor's lips. Rest assured, whether Turkey is a constitutional state of law is seriously discussed in public. The 7th anniversary of October 7th, which we wanted to do on October 13th, our closed hall meeting was banned by this power, we couldn't do the institutional anniversary event. The press statements our MPs want to make in front of the party building are blocked, our party buildings are under police siege, our lawmakers are clearly being hit by a target. Two days ago, a few days ago, in Istanbul, nine of our friends, who had issued the slogan, "No war, peace, right now," were arrested. Look, he's not under arrest, he's been arrested, he's been charged with organization propaganda. Why? Only because they say no to war, peace is now. Mr. Secretary, do you know what he just said here? We'll take democracy to Syria. Is he all right? He's going to take democracy to Syria, Mr. Secretary. Please remember who said that. Please remember who first said that in the Middle East, and who carried war by saying, "We will take democracy." Now, you're trying to get everyone on the war filled that you imported into Syria, but we're not going to get on this filler, we're going to continue to say peace, we're going to continue to argue that the problems between the brothers and the people are solved by dialogue, just like you did years ago. Just as Mr. President was the mayor of Istanbul, with the heads of six political parties against the war in Iraq, we will continue to call it peace. You're saying: "We don't fight Kurds, we don't fight Kurds, we fight terrorism." Why are the Kurds in Iraq standing? Why are the Kurds in Iran standing? Why are the Kurds in Syria standing? Why are the Kurds standing in Europe? Why are the Kurds standing in the world? Why are the Kurds in Bane? Why do almost all governments feel that this war is a war against Kurds and oppose it? Only your government knows the truth, and all Kurds and the world are on the wrong track? You're like a car on the wrong side of the highway, you think everyone's going the wrong way.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0252par0220	Where's the document for those places you count?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0253par0222	Here, finish up, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0251par0223	Please open your eyes and ears to the truth. WHEN the EC PARTY was established, the Kurdish enemy was not a party; he had the support of an important part of the Kurds, but now when the Kurds look at the AK PARTI, they see a party that puts Kurdish hostility at the centre of their politics; this is exactly how the Kurds view the pressure on elected mayors, the pressure on Kurdish politicians, the referendum on Iraq, and the war on the present. Now, you think we're happy to say so, we're happy to see the seeds of hypocrisy spread among the Kurds, Turks and Middle East people. No, we're not, on the contrary, believe me, our hearts are burning, everyone around us has been having sleepless nights for a week. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When the road is near, I say give up this feuding war between our people, at least defend yourself in Idlib, and try to solve problems in dialogue.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0254par0227	It's not war, it's counterterrorism, first name it right.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0251par0228	I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0254par0230	Just name it right!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0255par0231	Thank you, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0254par0232	It's all a lie. Where's his document?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0256par0233	Go to HDP's website, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0255par0234	I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement taken in Article 20 of the Law Proposal shall be changed in the form of the Law Law Law Act and in the form of the Article 20. Dursun Atash Ayhan Erel Fahrettin Yoşş Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu İştin Nuhoğlu Is the commission folding into the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0257par0243	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0255par0244	İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu has a request on the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0258par0248	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I begin by saying hello. I'm going to talk about the Penal Code and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Once in a while, it is inevitable that such changes will be made, as law becomes unresponsive to society's needs. The delay or inadequacy of the needed updates results in the failure of the legal system to respond to the needs of society. The Turkish legal system is the basis of justice property. It is based on understanding. Therefore, in our understanding of the state, it is an indispensable rule that justice works fairly and independently. As important as the updating of laws is, judicial independence is equally important, perhaps even more important. The fact that this has never been mentioned in the package of judgments shows that the arrangements to be made are a work far from solving the fundamental problems in our legal system. Essentially, the main source of our problems is not only the shortcomings that exist in the legal legislation, but the attitude that comes from the way they view the implementation of legislation. No reform package will be the answer to legal problems unless the judiciary is free from its command. The only way to free the judiciary from its command is to return to the parliamentary system. It must be acknowledged that the party presidential system, which means one man's administration and is now said to be reviewed by many members of the ruling party, is blocked on many issues. So I say that the reform in the justice system, which will not be possible with such regulations in the bag of law, must begin from the Constitution. With the new constitution based on the parliamentary system, we are prepared to make all the legal arrangements we have seen in the past that were incomplete and flawed. Dear MPs, I'd like to divide this part of my speech into the problems of the Esenkent neighborhood in Istanbul Maltepe, because there are many houses in this neighborhood that are notorious for self-destruction without waiting for the earthquake. I was in the neighborhood the morning of the earthquake. Just two hours before the earthquake, we talked to the mayor about the earthquake and the neighborhood's problems. Firuzan Çekrekli, the women's mayor of the neighborhood, Ours is fighting an incredible battle for his neighborhood. I consider it my duty to help this overzealous chief and to address the problems of the neighborhood from this bench. Buildings in the neighborhood have exhausted their economic lifespan, lost their resistance in the 1999 earthquake, and with the latest Istanbul earthquake, cracks in the columns and walls of the buildings. The safety of citizens' lives and property is in grave danger. If the necessary measures are not taken immediately, I'm afraid we'll see the end of the Green House Apartment, which is a grave to 21 people before the earthquake arrives. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and TOKİ will be responsible for such a outcome because it is unable to reach a compromise with the property or property-owning citizens in the area that was handed over to the TOİKI (five years ago). The four-to-five-story, adjacent structure and mostly co-op blocks are now unsettled. Other problems in the neighborhood are urgently awaiting solutions. In this day and age, electrical cables are still going from above. This is going underground, building a way in and out of the neighborhood, bringing back the police station, installing fiber nets, removing gyms from a bad situation, immediate repair, easy thinking for disabled people, making traffic lights...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0259par0256	Complete it, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0258par0257	...fighting drugs, but first of all, it's urgent, urgent, and important to find a solution to the damaged building stock that's waiting to be destroyed. It is expected by the entire neighborhood to hear and do what is necessary. Our duty is to preach and to warn. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0259par0260	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Article 20 has been accepted. Dear lawmakers, the votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now, let's move on to the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers 21 to 39. I read the names of the MPs who wanted to speak on the second chapter: Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel, Tokat MP Yücel Bulut on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Ahmet Şık on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Aydın MP Bkent Tezcan on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mustafa Arslan on behalf of the individuals. The first statement is from Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0260par0270	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the honorable MPs, the great Turkish nation, the Penal Code and the second chapter of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. On behalf of my good party, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Finding bread, food, water, delays in finding stones, delays in finding stones at the foundation, delays in meeting the government; justice is not delayed, it must be given quickly. When I say justice, I'd like to begin with an injustice in both my constituency and Serbia outside our borders. Our citizens, who used treasured land in the Eskil region of Aksaray, were victims of the implementation of the collection. Since the land they have been using for years has been moved elsewhere and has been conditioned to use it for a certain amount of time, these lands are not given to people who have been farming and providing child support for their families for years; they are normally recommended to be tendered along with other citizens. Those who are already poor and in poverty are not able to deal with wealthy landowners in terms of open tenders. Another issue is that Turkish truck drivers who drive on international roads are practically abandoned to their own destiny; they face arbitrary practices in the countries they cross. At the checkpoints in Serbia, the truck drivers are fined a large amount of about 500,000 dinars -- 30,000 Turkish liras -- for no apparent reason. I'd like to invite the State Department on this matter. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were announced to the public on May 30, 2019 that a number of judicial arrangements would be made as part of the Judicial Reform Strategy Document announced by our President. Again, it was said that some arrangements would be brought to Parliament's agenda, as the new year of legislature began. I'm going to present my party's views on the recent proposal of amendments submitted to parliament by the ruling party, known in public as the draft of the package of judgment. It has been reduced to evidence that will affect the subject of the crime, which will directly affect the subject of the crime. It is thought that an arrangement has been made in accordance with the court's principle that the Court should evaluate the evidence. Again, other jokes, including 4.5,6 and 7, have been added to the 326th article mentioned above. Serial judgment is being brought in. The state's attorney may delay the fine on the prescribed clause as it can turn the fine between the lower limit and the upper border into options. The lack of an open way to implement Article 62 of the Turkish Penal Code here is a flaw. Again, in the proposal, we see that the system is wrong in the legal arrangement. The dismissal of the ruling would have to take place before a short-term prison sentence could be changed to alternative sanctions or a stay of prison sentence, and we think it would be appropriate for the court to continue to prosecute, if the court somehow disagrees with the procedure's application, to send the case back to the prosecutor's office, which would lead to increased workload and trial time. Therefore, the Article (10) must be changed accordingly. A simple trial of crimes involving less than two years in the upper border is estimated to be carried out by the original criminal court, after the indictment has been passed, or a simple criminal trial of crimes that require two years or less of prison time. According to this procedure, the court will be ordered to report their testimony and defences to the accused, the victim and the complainant in writing within 15 days. If the verdict is convicted, the sentence will be reduced by one-quarter. We believe that the 15-day deadline for the defence is too short and that the European Convention on Human Rights is against Article 6/3-b. A punishment that can and can be changed into any kind of sanction is also marked by the failure to apply the reasons for lowering Turkish Penal Code's appreciation on Article 62. Again, we see that as a requirement of the right to an honest trial, the lack of questions to the witness, the failure to discuss the evidence face-to-face, the removal of the rule of confrontation, which is essential to criminal law, is one of the legal flaws in the course of the simple judicial procedure, which is not even sought by the admission of the accused. The right to a fair trial must be observed in terms of the suspect and the accused and must also be protected by the common and victim. For example, how witnesses will be heard, if the defendant and the defendant have the right to question the witness, all of this should be considered. The kidnapping of the child, the detention of the child, as it is not enough that all of Article 234 is part of reconciliation, is a violation of basic human rights and freedom of employment and labour freedom. In Article 117/1, a person who violates the freedom of work and work by using a criminal or other means of threat or violation of the law will be sentenced to six months to two years in prison or legal fines if the victim complains. The text of the substance gives the impression that people who are in need of a penny are seeking to be given alms and drive away and look after the rich. The rule that the judge cannot correct the sentence after the verdict has been passed has been lifted. If the judge understands that he has made the wrong decision through a petition for a dissolution, then it is organised that he may essentially reject the petition for the title by making the necessary correction. It is also considered a positive arrangement to open the path of appeal, regardless of the amount of punishment for the president and the full amount of organised crime. It is also seen as a proper arrangement that the maximum sentence limit for the postponement of the civil suit on the children should be up to five years. The text of this law shows that there is not enough regulation on the independence of the judiciary, the assurance and assurance of judges. In order for the judiciary to be independent, judges must be free of all political influence, pressure. Today -- I've told you before on the Commission -- lawyers who have been free since 1993 have been taken into the profession of judge and prosecutors from time to time. However, according to the Judges and Prosecutors' Law, a judge and prosecutor who resign to run for office from any political party cannot return to the profession on the grounds that they have lost their neutrality, so you are not reassigning a judge, the prosecutor, who you think has lost his neutrality because he is a candidate for any political party on the one hand. Let's say that Mr. Musavat Bey and I have been traveling friends for forty-one years. I was head of branch there when he was head of a fraternity. Years later, he became the mayor of a town in İzmir, and I became the mayor of a place. I've been a councilman, he's running for mayor. We united our fates, united our paths. Then they hired me, and appointed me judge over Izmir. The case came to me. I looked at the file, and the other side was 100 percent right, and my conscience was heavy, but I also loved Masaat Bey so much that I ended the case in the favour of Musat Bey. Now the other side...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0261par0288	He'll refuse, I assure you, he'll refuse, he won't accept.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0262par0289	Please, complete. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0263par0291	The other party says, regardless of the cause of this case: either this judge and Mr. Musavat have shared the same fate for many years, walked in the same place, paid the price, shared life in common, took sides. No matter how neutral we are, we cannot eliminate this judgment. So I'm not saying this for the AK PARTY -- the future is going to be a power -- I'm telling the current young representatives of the GOOD PARTY: Let's please eliminate those lawyers who are very political when taking them into the profession of judges and prosecutors, because they're really causing great trouble in the country. A friend who has been the mayor of the EC PARTY for many years denies all appeals and election duties in a district of Niğde. Maybe he's right, but that's not what the Ulukish fellow says, that's why he's the mayor of AK PARTY on the floor. He says he's making biased decisions for him. Maybe he decides according to the law, decides according to the law. I don't have any... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0262par0295	Thank you, Mr. Erel. On behalf of the groups, the second speech is from Ulitarian Movement Party Khakat MP Yücel Bulkul. Here you go, Mr. Cloud. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0264par0300	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws and the Penal Code, which is publicly referred to as the package of justice. Of course, the debate on judicial reform has continued throughout the history of the republic, and there have been some changes in our legislation, from time to time, in dealing with the shortcomings of our judicial system. For the past ten years, especially with the Ergenekon and Sledgehammer operations, the subject and concept of judicial reform has become more public, with the 2010 referendum, and then, on December 17th and 25th, it has become uncontroversial with the undisputed presence of a Fetulist gang. Of course, after December 17th-25, the Republic of Turkey first fought selflessly to limit the jurisdiction of this gang in 2014 with its own self-determination and effort to limit its control area in the court, the structure was severely halted by 2014 HSYK elections, and then the initiative of July 15th was carried out when all organisation and gangisation in the Supreme Court was about to be wiped out. Since July 15th, Turkey has been under a heavy burden and struggle with all judicial members, citizens, citizens. This struggle is carried out by the members of the judiciary under very severe circumstances. Now, now, in the shadow of this struggle, the political government has voiced righteous, well-intentioned criticism amongst them, bringing the first foot of judicial reform to Parliament today, with reference based on these righteous and well-intentioned criticisms, and has opened up the debate and brought it before the House as a proposal of the law. Now, when the concept of justice is being debated, unfortunately we're not surprised by the fact that we're discussing judicial reform -- except for those who bring good-willed criticism -- that this time, as if by making a stepping board of judicial reform -- it's as if justice, democracy, equality and right-seeking freedom in this country is just a privilege of terror, as if by writing letters to them, as if writing them a letter has opened a war on the package of judicial reform as a means and a means. Therefore, we all need to be careful and sensitive about this matter. No one has the right to advertise the gangs that have occupied the unity and unity of the Turkish nation by using these concepts as an excuse, and it has no right to ground the honorable Turkish army that is operating across the border today. So, first of all, I would like to point out that a state's understanding of justice is not built through its courts alone. A state establishes justice as a whole, establishes justice with a state police, establishes justice with a state court, and a state, especially if it is a Turkish state, establishes justice with its army. The glorious and glorious army of the Republic of Turkey has gone to establish justice across the border, not to invade, not to slaughter, not to commit genocide, as some say, out of line. To do what our genes order us to do today, we have carried out this cross-border operation to establish justice, peace, and peace. Therefore, it is inevitable that the Parliament will make this reminder to those who show the lack of integrity under the roof of this Parliament, which is the symbol of the unity and unity of the Turkish nation, that it is not an occupied Ottoman Mebusan Assembly, that it is not an occupied country, and that the Turkish Republic of Turkey is established as the 17th independent Turkish state. We're all bound by citizenship to this state, and this is an honorable and wary Parliament. Thus, we must all act together in harmony with the spirit and morality of this Parliament. Now, there are those on this stand who, on various occasions, have made various claims to take word and knock this operation to the ground. Now, a orator friend of ours just said, they counted various lands, saying: I don't know where the Kurds are standing, where the Kurds are standing, where the Kurds are standing. None of the Kurds I've seen are standing, all the Kurds I've seen are praying for the victory and victory of the Turkish army together in prostration. Today, I say to those who have the right to speak for the Kurds: "Come, sing these words in 64 Kurdish villages of Tokat, and we will see how you will react. Thus, it is also imperative that everyone accept the fact that they are under the roof of Parliament: The terror-related focus of this country and our Kurdish brothers and sisters have never met. At no time in history did the Turks kill the Kurds they considered brothers. If a murderer of the Kurds is wanted in the history scene, they need to look at the separatist who started armed propaganda in 1984 by the Siirt and Eruq raids, and in 1987, who ordered by saying, "Let's be the authorities. Let's kill him. Let's be the authorities." Therefore, no son or member of the Turkish nation will ever, ever, never, never, never, never have Kurds, never, never been a society killer. Thus, as we have walked together for a thousand years, we will continue to walk together in the same bar of civilization and under the same banner as these people, whom we have joined in the chain of faith, with whom we are soul mates. And when they dare not say anything, they now say that the spirit of unity and unity that exists is being abused by the President. Why is he being abused by Mr. President? Sir, if there's a victory in the middle, Mr. President was a participant in this victory, where he attempted political abuse in his favor and account. We, the National Movement Party, say that according to the Constitution, the President you claim to have abused is the commander-in-chief of this army. We're not bothered by his commander-in-chief. We're with you to the end of our army and our commander-in-chief. (MHP and AK PARTY) We're not bothered by the fact that this victory is a common denominator, but I'm telling you what you really need to be uncomfortable with, so if you want to be very uncomfortable, be uncomfortable with it. If someone is still in this country with the hate of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, how they find their trouble to say "Oh." That's what they need to worry about if they want to put everything aside so that they can deal with Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Those who have heard Mustafa Akincı's remarks and heard the Turkish Cypriot president's remarks, and said, "Here's the President we are looking for." Those who say, "I wish were the head of Turkey and not the head of Cyprus." Those who pray night and day that they may return to their homes, and they shall not be able to grieve in the land, nor shall they grieve. To those who accept judicial reform as a reference and find judicial reform inadequate, I tell you that it will not satisfy you because every text, whatever its content, will be treated like rags, that will strongly and stubbornly subjugate illegal terrorist organizations under the roof of Parliament. And the judgment package that will satisfy you will never, ever allow this House to pass because there has certainly been a breach of rights in this country, but if every example you've shown for a violation of rights is a violation of terrorism, a violation of terrorism, and people known as the enemy of our national institutions and national goals, then I have to give you an example of real rights violations. If you are very interested in violating the rights, you can look at our President Abidin Bilgin. Our friend, who spent his life rotting in there with the plot of a fetullahist gang, is still fighting the law today. If you're very interested in violating rights, the head of the court, who has been sentenced to sixty-six years in prison for a case we call our Mafia friend, and no one's nose could be fooled, look, the court chief who has tried this man for ten years, I've tried him for ten years, he should have been sentenced to ten years, even ten years." Even though he has made an official statement, you can look at Kurdistant Yilmaz (Kurşat), who is still in the execution of sixty-six years.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0265par0316	Please, complete.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0264par0317	If you seek a violation of the rights, you can look into the eyes of the mother of the young man, Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, who was murdered at İzmir Aegean University, in the eyes of his father. In other words, the Nationalist Movement Party is the army of people who have fixed their rights to the truth of their nation, to the truth of their nation, to walk like arrows in the same direction and believe in them. No matter what criticism you bring, no matter what criticism you bring, you'll know that you won't be able to divert or turn the troops and the leaders of the National Movement Party, and we'll continue to walk in the same direction as we believe. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0265par0320	It is now the turn of İstanbul MP Ahmet Şık, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Fancy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0266par0324	Hello, everyone. I had promised to make arrangements that included amendments to the judiciary and were not deserving, but once again a new play of the palace dictatorship, which made the blood of poor children the object of politics in order to prevent the deepening and collapse of its own crisis. To be part of the game, some dressed in their clothes, some in their words camouflaged. This war is not about law and democracy, but more persecution and the power of one man's dictatorship. No matter what changes are made by the judiciary's legitimacy in a place where there is politics, where there is an understanding that does not hesitate to align in every line and prefers to violate principles rather than boldly defend them. I refuse to live a lie on behalf of everyone in this country who opposes war with the awareness of its price and advocates peace. Let those who look after themselves remain in this game, but let him not forget what Brecht (Brecht) said: There are three armies left of every battle: the army of the dead, the army of the mourners, and the army of thieves. Here you go, the bench is yours.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0267par0329	Thank you, Mr. Elli. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it now belongs to Aydın MP Bkent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0268par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're interviewing the first set of packages that the bidders are trying to present as part of the process of judicial reform. We've moved on to chapter two, and once our friends on materials have a lot to say, a lot to say, a lot to talk about, but first we need to figure out a fundamental issue. Congressmans, there is a basic point in which we are separated by the court's regime, by those who have prepared this proposal, who have prepared and submitted the Judiciary Reform Strategy Document. There's a whole different world of people who make the offer, and when you open 39 and look at it, our perception of the problem is completely different. According to us, the fundamental problem of judgment is the problem of directional judgment, the lack of independent judgment, the rule of politics over justice, judgment and instruction, which is the main issue, according to everyone who lives in Turkey, who suffers from judicial practices in life. When we look at this 39-point proposal, we don't see anything remotely related to this perception of trouble. Yeah, what is it? What problem are we going to solve in court? Let's take this, let's solve this. Let's change this in the Pasaport Law. Let's do this. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can always make these changes, including the positive, the things that should be, our friends on the Commission said, but that's not the issue. Our issue is to create a truly independent and impartial judiciary in Turkey. And for that, you can't start the building from the roof. Stop saying that. We also heard that eight more are coming, so what do we see in the first one, and what do we see in the 8th? He'll go any way you can. I mean, do you start on the roof? You're going to start from the ground up, we're going to start from the ground up, we're going to come together, we're going to take the Constitution to make the judiciary independent, and we're going to do whatever it takes to ensure that the judges and prosecutors have high judicial bodies, especially the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Every step we take without doing this is rhetorical. There's nothing more to it than that. See, now, in Turkey, everyone now knows that for the AK PARTI authorities, the judiciary for their government has been seen as an area that needs to be taken, and only until now, that's the main problem. Since justice was seen not as an area that needed to be distributed, but as an area that needed to be taken, yesterday you saw no harm in handing the judiciary over to a gang such as the enemy of state, the enemy of republic, the enemy of justice, the enemy of law, the enemy of law, the gang of law, which brought this understanding. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Is it different now? There were other congregations. Go today to the halls of the court, to the halls of the judge, where the congregations are spoken of. What reform are we going to talk about with 39 articles of correction to this painting of shame? Dear lawmakers, look, the Supreme Election Board has been instructed; I speak of the order created, the ordered judgment. You've lost the Istanbul elections, you can't digest them, you've instructed the Supreme Election Board, you've cancelled the election. By God, the nation struck a slap by 813,000, and you knew what it was. [[Applause from CHP rows]] For the first time in our history, prosecutors put their hands in the crates. After you went on a multi-party regime, for the first time, the prosecutors put their hands in the crates, had the prosecutors gather evidence. What system of justice set this whole thing up? You've done so with the directional order you've brought in. Now, let's appeal to the Supreme Court for defamation of the President, Article 299/E. Good, good, but you've got to lift 299, you've got to remove it. You can't solve anything without removing it in today's party presidential order. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In 2018, 26,115 lawsuits were filed on social media posts for insulting a party president within a year. Mr. Erdogan is not the first President the Republic of Turkey has seen, but the case against all presidents since the 12 September regime is 1,121. They were presidents without parties. The sum of 1,121, including the Kenan Universe, friends, including the Kenan Universe. Good for you, you've even crossed it, you've even crossed the Kenan universe! [[Applause from CHP rows]] In 126 countries, we became 109. This is the state of Turkey, the judicial order created. Operation Fountain of Peace is an operation that we all expect to succeed in. Well, at least I'm not defending all the shares, but there's been an investigation into 186 people because of their social media sharing, 186 people in one week. What independent judicial order, what judicial reform? Even when people were pushing buttons on Twitter, people were afraid that if I accidentally liked something, an army of instructions would come up behind me and I'd be in front of the judge. Look, dear friends, a week ago, a 22-year-old boy was sentenced to a year and two months of imprisonment, and then his sentence was postponed. A young boy, Mert Durgun -- I'm just telling you what a sentence is -- just finished college. Do you know why he was convicted? His trial is over in a day. Why was he convicted? What I said at a rally was that the fascist dictator of violence shared his word on social media, shared a story, a story, at the age of 22. I mean, see who the court regime is dealing with and what they're dealing with. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, When he comes out, turn back, for God's sake. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, in this part -- a little later to see -- new procedures have been invented, reforms will be made. Serial trial procedure, simple trial procedure, new judicial procedures invented, new methods completely unaware of the source of the problem. Look, I'll tell you the new ways you invented, you don't have to write it here. For example, let me tell you how you simplify a simple process of judgment before the law is passed. Let Trump threaten you first, then ask you, then let Erdogan instruct you, and let the priest go free. Is there anything simpler than that? You don't have to write it here, that's what you've done with the judgment. (CHP clapping in rows) Simple trial procedure for lawyers and teachers to see what they've written. Let's see what they've written, what they've done. Look, it's a serial trial procedure, a simple trial procedure; you wrote it down. Writers of Cumhuriyet daily, Editor-in-Chief daily - let them fight against him all their life -- instruct them, order them to be tried, arrested, but those who receive tenders from the stock exchange shall travel in the tail of the Ankara daily and then find lawyers close to the palace and then be acquitted and released! Is it any simpler to judge than that, why are you writing here? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the point is, stop inventing in judgment and just leave the judgment alone. Don't invent it, just leave the judgment alone. As a result of your inventions, the court was handed over to the new congregations and sects yesterday. The congregation, the cult, where's the truth? There's no truth.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0269par0359	Come in, Mr. Tezcan, complete, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0268par0360	Dear lawmakers, of course, I told you in the first place, our friends who will speak on certain issues can be made specific arrangements about them. In these arrangements, for example, there are important arrangements, especially for the appeal limit and execution, which can be done, but not enough. I wish you hadn't solved it just by setting up the appeal limit, like if one of the provisions on a case and appeals had been appealed, there was an arrangement here that could appeal the others. If the sum of those who remain on separate recriminations at the end of the sentence were at the border of appeals, we could take them to the border of appeals. So in the Commission, although there is no reform, if these arrangements were made, there would be some response to certain urgent needs, but not one -- I'm finishing with the last sentence -- Mr. President, with the last sentence, I'll greet you -- if you bring eight and 80 packages like this, you can't correct the judgment you've broken in Turkey with these packages. We don't want a package. We want intimacy. We want intimacy. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0269par0363	Yes, speaking on behalf of groups is complete. On behalf of the individuals, Gaziantep MP Sermet Atay is required to make a statement. Here you are, Mr. Atay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0270par0368	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf to address the Law on Penal Code 105, and the Proposal of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute you all. Before we begin to talk about the proposal, I wish our hero Mehmetçik, who carried out Operation Peace Fountain to secure our southern borders and to bring the terror corridor project to the head of terrorist organizations. The first package of judicial reform strategy is the first step in legal reform, which has changed multiple laws, bringing significant changes to one another. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our academics, the Turkish Bar Association and lawmakers, especially Mr Abdulhamit Gul, who has been involved in drafting this law. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are ordered to provide special passports for lawyers with a minimum of 15 years, provided they are registered on the bar table under the 14th article concerning the special stamp of Passport Law 5682, as they call it, green passports among the public. It had become a necessity for our colleagues, lawyers who had gone abroad to join international courts, which had been requested for years. With this arrangement, the lawyer's problem has been resolved. Critics that the law school graduates, who recently graduated from law school, did not have the necessary information and equipment, were often said to have hampered the justice mechanism. With a amendment to this law, it is legally arranged that those who have graduated from law school will take an competency exam in the legal profession so that they can begin the practice of law school. Those who fail the legal entrance exam, apparently with the central system, will not be able to begin the practice of law training, and those who have not earned the right to be a lawyer will not be able to take the judge's and notary's exam before this test is passed. This is a positive and expected arrangement for professional dignity and competence. Clearly, there are law schools that teach hundreds of students by providing only one professor or guest lecturer. Because of the lack of academic numbers, it is a situation where the current professors are overwhelmed by the burden of lessons and work and cannot provide useful education. It has been helpful to face this reality and to take this step to resolve it. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have not yielded the desired results in the implementation of regulations regarding the lengthy detention process made by our Veteran Assembly. The articles added to the CMK, the Penal Code, were of no use, and the arrest could not be prevented from becoming a measure. The arrest is primarily a measure in which the suspect does not escape, does not black out evidence, prevents the possible infoliation of society, the high limit of the sentence for crime is high, and restricts freedom by the decision of the competent judge. Overloads of files in courts and prosecutors are extended, depending on why the bureaucracy is concentrated in the process of gathering evidence. The detention situation, which has been removed from being a precautionary measure due to these reasons, has become a punishment. The effective implementation of the new proposed arrangement is a key factor in the fact that practical applications are monitored by the control mechanism and that there are no gaps left that could lead to victims. The series of reasonings added to the Penal Code and simple reasoning are very important and useful provisions that will speed up the trial and allow judges to end the trial within the time of the target. Instead of being blocked by the article 8 (P.S.) under the Law No. 5651, "The decision to block and fulfil access is offered to change and block all publications, the decision is offered to observe the method of blocking the content of the report. Thus, a positive change is proposed by preventing the complete closure of a number of world-renowned websites -- considering public criticism. We report that when we review the proposal, we generally consider it a positive reform package, but of course it is possible to detect technical shortcomings. I wish to see good results in the practical practices of the change being made, and I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation in his presence.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0271par0381	Dear MPs, on behalf of the groups and on behalf of their individuals, the speeches are complete. There is a demand for a word according to 60; I will meet it. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0272par0386	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that some laws such as the Penal Code, the Passport Law, the Anti-Terror Law may not provide problems in the judiciary with some additional or partial changes. Problems in the judiciary must be dealt with completely. Why haven't the heavy casualties of thousands of people who have been fired from their jobs without a legal investigation as a result of the State of Emergency? The rights of victims of the State of Emergency must be returned at once, including those who have not filed a criminal suit, have been issued or acquitted. Those who don't even know what they're accused of, who have been fired from their job and who are waiting for their victims to be relieved can't be ignored. A solution had to be produced for them. The bill must be brought to parliament as soon as possible in order to improve the unjust, unlawful, unfair implementations of the State of Emergency. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0273par0392	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, since there is no demand for word, we are moving on to the question-and-answer process. Question-answer...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0274par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0275par0395	Mr. President, I asked for a promise.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0276par0396	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0277par0397	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit04spe0278par0398	Dear lawmakers, they're all out of the system because we're back in the department. So go back into the system after the break, and I'll meet your request when we continue the negotiations. I'm also passing the QA process. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0278par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 105. The commission is in place. There are two motions on the 21st article, which I will read and process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the Article 21 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. "In crimes which require more than five years in prison for the charge of sexual assault in Article 234 of Article 234 of the Law (a) in Article 3 of the law, 'the lower limit of the lower limit is removed from effect in crimes which require more than five years in prison,' which are included in Article 5 of the'sexual assault charge and the lower limit is suspended. Suleiman Nightingale Turan Aydoğan Albay Antmen Zeynel Emre Aydın Özer Rafet Zeybek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0279par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0278par0014	The motion contains the request for the statement of Aydın MP Süleyman Bulbül. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0280par0018	Dear President, worthy MPs, the essential rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, and the rule of law. For the rule of law to prevail, individuals must be equal in the eyes of the law. This constitutional decree is the Article of the Constitution, Article 10 of the Article of Equality in front of the Law. With your permission, I would like to read the first joke: Everyone, language, race, color, gender, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion, sect and so on is equal to the law without distinction. The fourth joke says that no one, family, group or class is allowed to be privileged to act in accordance with the principle of equality in all transactions. Dear friends, this clause is very important to ensure constitutional rights and freedoms. Of course, the rule of law was brought to the September 12th referendum in 2010, as we recall. Then, in the September 12, 2010 referendum, you said, "Let the rule of law not come; let the rule of law prevail." You said, "Yes." You said, especially our friends from the AK PARTİ; then the judiciary surrendered to the law and the law. We all know the results until July 15th. For that, the way to uphold the rule of law is that when we look at history, there are many examples of the way to uphold the rule of law. I'd like to give you an example: the history of Ali Hazreti, who had the title of Sahabe, and the title of "halife," is that she was tried in front of a non-Muslim in front of Kaid Şureyh, and that she lost the case because she refused to testify after she had shown him as a witness. It's a very important historical issue, the memory. Now, where do I go from here? Here's where I'll come from: on the agenda, I'll come to today. The President, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Chief of Staff; all the people who run the state, all the people in the executive body, and their relatives, must be absolutely equal to the law in the same way as the normal citizen. But what's in practice? There's no such thing in practice. I want to tell you something. Look, guys, it's in Istanbul. On 4/10/2018, lawyer finder Seher Okşar Kadirgan is on a mandatory intermediary mission. Since I'm a negotiator, I know he'll come to his cell phone and you'll take the job. After he has accepted, he enters the portal of the meeting place of the UYAP, where he brings out the commission. After we get the mission document out, this lawyer friend of ours, he immediately sends invitations to the parties, and at this hour, we will hold a meeting on this day. Then, two days later, there's a phone call. He picks up the phone, says a gentleman on the phone who claims to own the Baykar Machine -- allegedly says: "What's your purpose? What's your purpose?" You'll see what I'll do to you. Next thing you know, it's the Copperville Police Commissioner. Copperville Police Commissioner -- claims that you have upset my father. Says the lawyer's negotiator. My father calls me Özdemir Bayraktar. Later on, it is Hakan Öztatar of the Justice Department, who says: "Don't contact the other side again, don't talk to the other side." He says: "Mr. President, you told us to do this in training." But we did, but this time it's different. He says it's different. Later, an investigation was launched at the Justice Department, a complaint filed against the Public Prosecutor's Office and a lawsuit was filed at jet speed. Why are we being sued? They're suing him for...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0281par0024	Complete, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0280par0025	It is said in the case that the searcher will know who to invite. Of course, it is not said that the searcher will know who to invite. It is called. It's said: "You will know who you sent the letter to, that you will continue your work as a mediator. Why would you send an invitation to mediate against the president's in-laws?" It's called. There are two hearings, the client isn't called in, and there's no testimony in the investigation, but the lawyer's intermediary goes to trial with a restraining order, and after yesterday's hearing, the third hearing is in April. Dear friends, this is not the way we rule the law, it's the law of the superior. If the judgment is not independent, neutral, then the justice within the government system begins to fear the one-man regime. What does he do? The prosecutor gets scared, the judge gets scared, fears something might happen to him because of his actions, and the rule of law is the law of the superior. Do you remember... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing. I'm finishing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0282par0030	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale, I won't extend it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0280par0031	Mr. President, we've waited this long.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0282par0032	Because we didn't promise anyone, but I mean let us treat everyone the same, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0280par0033	I'll finish the speech.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0282par0034	But finish without the microphone, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0280par0035	Friends, we say there is no judicial reform in one man's regime. Since there will be no judicial reform in one man's regime, there is no rule of law, no state of law. Therefore, the simple thing to do: democracy, along with freedom, is the constitutional amendment and parliamentary regime. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0282par0038	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale. Mr. Akçay, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0283par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you've been running parliamentary sessions as Acting Speaker for two days now, and you're a witness that both the environment of our country and the talks that we've been having can be very tense, and while the debates can come out of the room and into an atmosphere that is not suitable for the Parliament's presence. I've had a lot of talks about this as deputy speaker of the National Movement Party Group in cases that have happened over and over and over again, and as the National Party for Action, we as well as as as the Group's Deputy Director, are taking great care of it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0282par0046	Go ahead, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0283par0047	Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is, of course, a place where different views are expressed, which no one can object to, but it is so provocatively used in speech that we, in our view, are being provoked as some of the MPs or groups of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and we are witnessing inadmissible statements that are never deserved and unacceptable. So an MP said here:.. this civil war is inevitable... so a speaker before him says that the cause of the argument is this:... it's an attempt at genocide. It's an occupation. Civilians are being massacred. So as it is not real, we also find extraordinary provocative expressions that can reflect on the field and on the public sense, and, of course, when we respond to them, we may have to use harsh language and style, our MPs and us, all of us.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0282par0049	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0283par0050	Of course, what we're particularly interested in here is certainly not a personal argument or anything. Our words are based entirely on the opinions expressed on the platform, which are not subject to anyone, nor have they ever been, and it is not possible for them to ever be. I think that all of our fellow lawmakers should stay away from a provocative and provocative language -- all of us -- considering the atmosphere we're in. In these talks, I think we should all take care of the use of a more appropriate language and style, both in the time and in accordance with the presence of the Assembly, not to be misled by the public sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit05spe0284par0053	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0285par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 105. The commission is in place. I'm reading the other motion on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In addition to Article 274 of Law No. 5271 added to Article 234 of the Law Against the Amendment to the Law Against Some Laws, it is met with the budget of Justice Department, which is being changed under Article 2271 under Article 2271 under Article 274 of the Law on the Law Against the Law on Determination of the Law on Law and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws Against whom the victim was born under the obligation to go to a place other than the place of law and to which he had to go in accordance with the State of Justice. According to Article 10/2/1954 and Article 6245 of the Law, the Law on the basis of Statement of Statement of Justice shall be subjected by "instribution or by the process of prosecution or by the process of criminal conduct, which he has been forced to be forced to be subjected to be transferred to a place of law and transferred to the state of law on the grounds of law. Ümit White Zeki Hakan Sedali Arslan Shellcucuoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0286par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0285par0013	Ankara MP Senol Sunat wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0287par0016	Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Party, I salute the High Council. Congressmans, brought in with this package, as many lawmakers say, is not a reform in the judiciary, but a so-called redesign for the removal of the malfunctions in the implementation. Reform in the judiciary is made to best justice, valued lawmakers. The pluralistic democracies have two essential principles - the principle of separation of forces and the principles of the state of law. In this process, when we ask, "Are we a state of law?, what can we answer, and I leave it to you? Since we're not the legal state, political, cultural and economic development, unfortunately, we've failed, and we're getting worse every day. Is it not too optimistic to believe that, as in many matters in our country, legal problems can be solved with pure theoretical regulations? Again, valuable lawmakers: The law cannot be implemented without efficiency and efficiency to the judicial function. In a democratic and social law state, it is the protection and assurance of individual rights and freedoms, the basic values of society, the points of reconciliation. For the sake of these tasks, the independence of the judiciary is more important than anything else. As important as the fact that the laws are up to date, judicial independence is equally important, perhaps even more important. Yes, he entered a sentence in our terminology, which is like describing it to Bill. I say, lawmakers, it means that no state body, office, person or institution can influence the courts and the judges there because of the use of judicial authority. Neutrality means avoiding biased judgments, political tendencies, being able to be judged objectively and objectively in accordance with the law. In our Constitution, the judgment is independent and neutral. It is written only in the text. Is there any way you can talk about judicial independence on a website where high-judgment members are determined by one person for the proper implementation of the law? The judiciary cannot be independent, especially as long as that is the way the members of the HSK and the Constitutional Court are elected and their membership features. The election of members of the Judiciary and Prosecutors' Council through the constitutional amendment cannot be said to have been reformed in the judiciary without being determined by the executive body. That is not enough; the principles of universal law are required by the members of the judiciary to have a sense and a sense of law that is equipped with the superiority of fundamental rights and freedoms, which requires good education and also merit. Unfortunately, due to the fact that this has never been mentioned in the judicial package, regulations will be no more than a study of fundamental problems in our legal system. The main source of our problems is prejudicial attitudes from the perspective of the implementation of legislation and from the mentality that we live in, rather than the lack of legal legislation.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0288par0022	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0287par0023	Dear lawmakers, it is our recommendation to you, especially to power, I speak to the ruling lawmakers: you must make peace with the Republic and its values, take advantage of the experience and savings of the state you run. Reboot democratic mechanisms with the awareness that the security outside has begun inside. We need to bring up the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation, who established the state, all of us together, to work to make it functional. And let's get back to the rational, reinforced parliamentary system, where the division of forces is best applied, by giving up this freakic system as members of the Turkish National Assembly, and let's not waste our energy on these vicious debates. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0288par0026	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are four motions on the 22nd article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and "The statement and images recorded under the fourth, fifth and sixth joke are kept in the case file and shall be changed in the form of the Penal Code 105 and of Article 7 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Ayşe Acar Başaran Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Kemal Peköz Oya Ersoy Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0289par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0288par0037	Ankara MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0290par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to remind you of two events: A 9-year-old boy who was sexually assaulted by a man in İzmir in 2016 died of a heart attack two days before the trial. His parents said he was too afraid to face the defendant at the trial, so he had a heart attack. The other is an incident from 2014. Hanime Aslan was threatened with death. She was killed by her son at the time of the hearing, along with the guard who was with her in front of the court. Yes, Hanime Aslan was killed by one of the closest men in her trial for violence. Here's the 22nd article of the law proposal that I'm talking about right now, about real stories that hurt so much. If these two people had taken the right precautions, they wouldn't have left us. Therefore, the testimony of children and adults who have a problem in meeting with the suspect and the defendant must be taken before they face the defendant in private. It's an arrangement we've been defending for years for women, children, or people who've been tortured. This practice is crucial, and it is also important that experts are involved in this process to avoid endangering life safety or traumatizing people over and over again by making them tell them what they're going through. But we think that the text should include not only children and sexual crimes, but all those who have been decided to take their testimony in private, and all the crimes that have caused it. It's a very new arrangement, and we need to do it properly. Therefore, the statements taken for reasons such as violence, torture, and persecution of women, not only about sexual crimes, must be included in the 7th joke (7) to be properly preserved. Children's rights organisations also point to another lack; they also demand the implementation of this arrangement in terms of crimes stated in TK 103/1, 104, 227 and 226. We also have serious doubts that today's discussion of pardons that will pave the way for a child's marriage is being carried out, and that it is also intentional that the children exposed to crimes under the TK 104 should not be taken into consideration. For an arrangement that is really comprehensive and based on protecting the rights of victims, we also have to give an answer as to how the testimony will be taken in the environment. We also need to make a delicate arrangement for the accessibility of statements and statements taken, such as how to access these images, how to access the defendants' lawyers, how long the images will be kept and how to hide them. So it can only be fair that we do not discuss what will happen when it is too late and that preventive measures are clearly defined. At the same time, this country is in serious need of a restorative justice approach. Dear friends, I'm not a paralegal in my speech, apart from insulting anyone, political criticism. I know a lot of our friends respect that, and I know that's what you do. But I'd like to say to you now that you're not Kurds, you're not Turks, you're Armenian seeds, Armenian... How do you feel? That's not very nice, is it? But every day, every angry person, every person who really wants to curse and insult us, is always against us, and let us go, that's what they say against our Garo Regent. And our Garo Deputy is the son of a people who have suffered severe trauma in this country. Actually, we need to wrap him and his kind in cotton, and we need to empathize a little. Today, he was accused of something much more severe. What was the promise? ▪ Specially trained agent, provocateur (provocator). [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0291par0050	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0290par0051	Now, I really wanted to use it every day, in fact, to understand how you would feel when you were told a little bit -- actually, what I just said -- was hurt once again today. And since I know that there will be no apology here, and there will be no apology from this House, I just want to greet him with love, and I wish you all to establish that empathy. Look, this is a platform where we're going to make all kinds of political criticism the hardest, and all of these podiums, but please don't think that you're going to tell us everything that comes into your mouth; our treachery, our terrorism, our ally of our allies will go into your tongue, and we will be silent in the political criticism that we've done, and we'll be willing to take everything. No, that's not true, guys. If this is a House, we must speak together and in the same manner only with political criticism. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0292par0055	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The testimony of children or victims whose testimony or testimony should be taken in private environment by the judge or by the judge or by the person of interest or by the person of interest or by the person of interest, is taken through experts in the special environment. The statement or testimony of the People's Attorney or the person of the accused has been taken into consideration. Hope White Smart Hakan İsmail Concubine of Sadalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0293par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0292par0065	This is Adana MP Ismail Konçuk, who wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0294par0068	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. There's a joke in our Adana -- it's getting late -- of course, I'll tell you all this joke by praising you, a joke that most of you know. There's a statue of the Virgin Mary in the church garden. Every day a bird comes and shits on the statue of the Virgin Mary. The priest says, "What is this bird?" I will pour wine in a bowl, and see if it drinks wine. He will pour wine, and the bird will come, and drink wine, and shit, and fly away. The priest says: "If she were a Muslim, she would not drink wine, but if she were a Christian, she would not shit on the head of the Virgin Mary. Of course, the answer is very different, depending on the provinces. This one, at least, is from here. He's saying something like that. It's called our Adana, but I don't want to say it. Another in Kozan, another in Kadirli, another in Malatiah, and another in Tripoli. Why did I tell you that? Now, I'm looking at this package called judicial reform, and I'm looking at it, of course, it's not reformed, and now I'm looking at universal law laws, Turkey has not had its share of universal law; it may not be, let's put it aside. In our great religion, the Qur'an is mentioned in 125 verses, and in 91 verses the word "Zazim" is mentioned. I shall recite to you the 29th verse of the Book: But those who did wrong followed their desires without knowledge. So who can guide those whom Allah has caused to go astray? And for them there will be no helpers. Now, we don't apply universal law; our great religion has many verses about persecution, cruelty, and there are verses about rights, and we don't apply them. Now, like this bird, what are we, what are we? That's something to call it. Yes, I salute our soldiers who have joined the Peace Fountain. Of course, I wish we could make a single noise in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is that all our parties act on the fact that it's a Turkey party, but that's where different ideas happen, unfortunately, and sad thoughts can be thrown out of here. But here, when we think about what happened to us and what was happening to us in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace, we all really need to think very differently, first the power. All countries lined up for the arms embargo; Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Finland, the United States. So that's where we need to see that we need to implement a solid national industry in the field of weapons and in all areas. Let's get an offer like this, it's always said: explain that you've given up privatizing this tank pallet factory, and let the AK PARTI explain. Yeah, let's give the whole world a message. Let Germany think that these Turks will now make their own weapons in every field. Let the United States think. Let us declare to the world that you have given up selling to Qatar, that you will modernise, that the engines of tanks produced here will be built by Turkey. Can we do all this? We can do all this. Today at the AK PARTY, the boys have read a beautiful anthem, it's beautiful.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0295par0078	The march of the revolutionaries.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0294par0079	He's not actually very revolutionary, but the revolutionaries are changing the anthem, where he's passed by Turkish, he's changing the revolutions. Anyway, it's a nice march. So our national values are so important, it's so important to raise our people's personality. I mean, we need each other.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0296par0081	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0294par0082	Look, the Republican People's Party said yes to the thesis, the GOOD PARTY said yes to the National Movement Party, so it stood next to the thesis you brought. You want to be in this field so badly, but you have to want it in every field, in every field. Then you will eliminate discrimination, display the sense of free embrace of the whole community. As long as we can't do this, there's no way this is going to get better unless you get the law, the justice, this nation. It's not possible to manage a nation just by getting those who vote for the EC PARTY or those who are close to the AK PARTY to warm them up, and we'll see about that. This Battle of the Fountain of Peace has once again shown how important these values are. I'm saying it's possible to make that happen, and I hope you will. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0296par0085	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Penal Code 105 and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws are added to Article 5271 under Article 236 (5). In the last sentence of the lu joke, we propose and supply that the expression be replaced in the proper form. Turan Aydoğan Albay Antmen Zeynel Emre Ünal Demirtaş Rafet Zeybek Süleyman Bulbül Aydın Özer Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0297par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0296par0097	He wants to talk about the motion, MP Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0298par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 22. Of course, it's important what's arranged in this article. Children's superior benefit must always be our priority, and we must consider that principle when we make all the laws. We established a research commission in this Parliament, and there was also an agreement on the establishment of a permanent children's commission, but this was not done, and in accordance with the contracts that we signed, we cannot pass the laws passed through this Parliament through the principle of the superior benefit of children; sometimes we have to go back and reassemble it, sometimes we fix it with a default, which was once again overlooked in the Law of Human Rights and Equality; with one warning, we were able to correct it with a deterrent. There's a shortage of child's rights here, dear friends, and I'd like to say this in a nutshell. First of all, I want to talk about a doubt in this article: Yes, it's very, very important that these centers be popularized, taken through experts in order to prevent children from being anviled. However, in regard to the protection of personal data, this image and the evidence are being used, so the punishment for the spread of children's statements is being aggravated. Now, dear friends, especially in crimes involving children and women, unfortunately, the justice mechanism is so heavy, it's so wrong that it doesn't get justice from Twitter without creating Twitter, without creating hashtags, without creating public opinion. Now, for example, the children's statements about the recent incident in Umraniye FİKIH-DER have been released to the press, where the public, in fact, realized the horror of the incident. That's how it's a driving force for justice to be done in crimes involving children. There's no way these statements could have been hidden from the public in any way. It's a matter of consideration in practice, I'd like to say. Second: There are objections regarding the application of this clause at 103/2, yes. In all such crimes, such as torture, abuse, and catalogue crimes involving children, especially in CMK article 100. The statements need to be taken at these centers. Again, there is another issue: A postponement of the civil suit of the Child Protection Act on Article 33 is also applied to the elders. So the upper limit on children is increased, naturally, but it's increased to five years, and there's no change in children under the age of 15 to 18. So a 16-year-old boy and a 30-year-old man's criminal case postponement has been handled within the same scope. Sixteen-year-olds, 17-year-olds, shouldn't be judged with adults, there's a contradiction here. Again, I'd like to say that there is another contradiction: there is a series of trials in Article 23, a simple trial in 24. It is said in the simple trial: "If a crime goes into my custody and a crime does not come together, there will be no simple trial. " You did not write it in the serial trial, so you did not write it, so you opposed 6136, and wounded someone with a gun; the opposition is entering a series of trials, and there is no injury. Then a sentence, such as it should not be carried out here, should be written as in Article 24. Again, there is objection to a simple trial in Article 25. This objection is not the objection to the CMK 267, but not the law, and the duration of it is not specified, it says: "In the process, there is no objection, but there is no objection to the law, which is required to be stated here; for what time, where will he apply?" Another issue is: there is a contradiction with Article 231. In a simple form of judgment, the accused says that if he is silenced, the judge can decide whether the verdict should be withdrawn. Now, in one article you say to the defendant: I will apply it if you agree. In one article you say, "If you are thirsty, I will do it." This is a contradiction, my friends. Again, in terms of the arrest times, we've actually brought limitation. It's called limitation. But we know that they don't accept these deadlines as the upper limit, the enforcers see it as a right. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President. If you really want to reform that clause, you're going to be processed without processing these top limits, for prosecutors, enforcers, officers. If you say, well, then it'll be reformed; then we'll know that you really want to shorten the arrests, you want to speed up the trial, you'll have the right to judge in a reasonable amount of time. But unfortunately, this package, as everyone has pointed out, is not exactly a package to strengthen the mechanism of justice, to free the judiciary, to ensure that people trust in law and justice. I'm saying that these contradictions and flaws need to be resolved. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0299par0118	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following (7) joke (7) be changed to the following (7) and that the following jokes be added to the article after this joke. "7) As part of the fifth and sixth joke, the statements and footage taken are kept in the case file, not given to anyone, and measures for privacy are taken. (8) As part of the fifth and sixth joke, statements and video recordings are turned into written reports. This report is given to the suspect, the defendant, the defendant, the defendant, the victim, the deputy or the legal representative. Statement and video footage can be monitored under the supervision of the investigation and prosecution authorities. Özlem Rich Mehmet Doğan Kubat Semra Kaplan Curly Radiye Sezer Kırcıoğlu Zemzem Gülender Açanal Kemal Çelik Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0300par0129	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0299par0130	No one wants to talk about the motion. The amendment (7) in the 7th joke, which envisions the addition of the Law on Punishment and Punishment, is stated that no one will be disclosed in terms of the confidentiality of the declaration and video recordings taken under the 5th and (6) joke. Editing, investigation and prosecution will not prevent authorities from examining these records under their legislation-based powers, as well as those who will be assigned to uncover material truth. The 8th joke proposed to add to the article aims to make a one-to-one solution of the declaration and video recordings taken under the 5th and (6) joke, and to make the statement into a written report and to examine these transcripts. This report can only be submitted to the suspect, defendant, defendant, defendant, victim, proxy or legal representative who makes demands. It is also possible that the recording of the statement and the video will be monitored under the supervision of the investigation and prosecution authorities, under the protection of its privacy. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 22, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 23rd article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 23 of Article 23 of the Penal Code 105 and Changes to Some Laws. Kemal Peköz Musa Piroğlu Hüseyin Won't Run Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki Oya Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0301par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0299par0147	Istanbul MP Musa Piroglu wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0302par0150	Mr. President, in fact, I've been promised to address some of the issues that the judiciary and the court have ignored as a whole or have not seen, in the judiciary, and I'm going to try to do that. Because there's a terrible increase in physical and sexual assaults on the disabled, there's a terrible increase in discrimination practices, and unfortunately, there's a similar increase in ignoring attacks on disabled people in court. Sinem, 22, mentally challenged young woman, age 11. The whole neighborhood knows that Sinem is retarded, that he has an 11-year-old mind. Five people -- they live in the same neighborhood -- are raped in mosques, in workplaces, in isolated places, in different places; they are pregnant. One of the five is identified by genetic reports that the child is the father of the child. These five people are being brought to trial. The judge has acquitted five people on the basis of a consensual relationship, claiming that Sinem would not scream. Similar incidents... ▪ A taxi driver... a 10-year-old boy, 50 percent retarded; child does not scream, good behavior reductions and acquittals... And what's weirder and worse is the prosecutor's office reduces him and releases him for the early release of someone who raped a disabled child. We've been through a lot of the same things. Miss Flitz just mentioned a 9-year-old with a heart attack, but I'll tell you what she didn't tell you: the person who abused her was released in court. Later, a year later, the same person was caught exploiting two children in Mughla. And all the same thing: you can cut your wife with an axe, you can stab her in 10 places, you can shoot her 10 times in front of your child; you go to court, you get a discount for good behavior. How? It's simple, you put on a tie, you put on a jacket, and the judge gives you a good attitude discount. Tell your Minister of Justice to tell your judges a little bit about it; the tie and jacket does not make a man have a conscience; and if he did, this society would not be so aggressive with these disabled children, children without obstacles, women. And if there was a linear relationship between the tie and the jacket and the conscience again, I don't think this Congress would have this war thesis. [[What does the AK PARTY have to do with it?]] I went to their mother's on Saturday. They've been resisting for months. This Saturday the police attacked these 70-80-year-old women and those with them with pepper spray and batons.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0303par0159	Go to Diyarbakir, Diyarbakıra!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0302par0160	He's got one motive, one motive, one job he hasn't done in months, one reason for saying, "War. " And the problem is, that's the fundamental difference between us, the majority of this House and us: the majority of this Assembly does not represent the interests of the majority that choose it, and we represent the interests of those poor people. We represent the interests of you bosses and rich people, and we represent the interests of the poor and the workers. You may not accept this. I'll tell you one simple thing, if you don't accept it, I'll tell you the simple work you're going to do: the budget law will come. Do one job, remove the minimum wage tax, the tax paid by the worker, and I'll say that the majority defended the worker's rights. Do that, then talk. Now, the rule is, if there's a difference between you and us, if there's a difference in interest, if there's a difference in interest, our language is different, our concepts are different, and that's where the problem comes from. You want us to talk about the language and concepts you use.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0304par0163	Get it together, Mr. Piroglu.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0302par0164	That's not possible. We read what you call "refah." What you call peace comes to us as a battle. What you call "right" comes to us as "wrong," and you have to accept that we will continue to speak of them. We will continue to call war, injustice, murder, genocide, massacre, and we will not withdraw from it until one day this Parliament really defends the rights of the poor, the workers.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0305par0166	Call the PKK a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0306par0167	You burn as much as you dare.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0307par0168	Call the genocide in Hodja the genocide.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0308par0169	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 23 of the Law Proposal for Amendments to Article 105 and some Laws be removed from the proposal text. Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Alpay Antmen Rafet Zeybek Murat Minister Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0309par0178	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0308par0179	It's İzmir MP Murat who wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0310par0182	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I must point out that while the illegal practices of the political judiciary are in effect, there is no right, no law, no justice, my friends, from what you call "judgment reform." Honey, honey is not the mouth of honey, and there is no judicial reform by saying "judgment reform" to this bag of legislation. Will you be able to make the judiciary independent with these provisions? Will you be able to remove the influence of the executives on the judiciary? Of course not. There are no superficial amendments to judicial reform without changing the Constitutional Council of Judges and Prosecutors in a system in which the President has directly or indirectly appointed 13 members of the HSK. The President appoints four members of the 15-member Constitutional Court directly, appoints the 8 members of the Council of Ministers, the Supreme Court and the three remaining members, the Parliament, which is the majority president of the party. Dear friends, the President appoints members of the Constitutional Court, which conducts judicial control of presidential decrees. What kind of a disgrace is that? What judicial reform are you guys talking about? What judicial reform are you referring to as another congregation and sect replacing another congregation while the order and congregation structures in the judiciary are still under way? Dear friends, I've been in the legal profession for thirty years. In the early years when we were lawyers, when we talked about judges, about prosecutors, we talked about this: The judge of the court of commerce is a judge of the legislation, he knows the court of law. The other, the judge of the court of Asliye, when he goes to the Supreme Court, he comes to the Supreme Court, and the other one comes to the Supreme Court. We talked about it. Now that we're talking about the appointments in the judiciary, we're talking about whether the appointed judge is a HAKYOL person or a member of what congregation? Is there any independent judgment here? It won't. Is there justice in this? It won't. It is a shame, my friends, that you stand before us as a means to legitimize the pressure you put on society, while the forces remove the separation and use the Constitution as a means to legitimize one man's regime. While the confidence in justice has dropped to 20 per cent, Mr. Kemal Kildaroğlu, who attempted to lynch Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, has been released and his hand has been kissed, while a system of judges who have seen the degree of interference in the skirt of the female lawyer, who have been tried for journalism, who have been handcuffed, and who have been held in judicial appointments, who have been sought loyalty, partying, or closeness, the opening of the jurisprudence of the jurisprudence, is not mentioned in Turkey, nor in the rule of law, while a system where the judicial reform package has been revealed by the party president of the court. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, guys, when this package was discussed in the Commission, I didn't speak until Article 35, I listened to all the talks. I wanted to contribute to a matter in Article 35. What I would like to contribute is that we are changing the Child Protection Act. In the current law, when an adult and a child commit a crime, it's a law that responds to the trial of a 12-year-old child in a court of law. I said: friends, let's change this together. Let's assume the child's superior benefit, the 12-year-old child can't be tried in general courts. Our friend Ali Ozkaya, who's a member of the Commission there, said: "Mr. Deputy, come to us with these, this is a good suggestion." He followed the Commission, he said: "We haven't changed that clause; I think just like you. There's a law school dean, our friend who's joined the Commission, he said: "What a great proposal. This is the whole Commission agreed; we haven't changed that clause, my friends, we haven't been able to protect the child." Where's the participant, the compromise law change? If what you call judicial reform, what we call the "judgment package" means is to restore the independence of the judiciary, reinstruct the rule of law, let's re-establish the separation of forces, first with a comprehensive, compromiser, and participant law study, let's clear the judiciary from the sects, from the congregations, and raise legal judges, not the sheik. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0311par0191	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A amendment to Article 5271, which is under way to the amendment of the Law Against Changes in Some Laws, and to Article 23271 of the Law Against the Law shall be added to Article 25271, which shall be changed to Article 250. "If the process of questioning is not decided at the end of the following crimes, a series of proceedings shall be carried out if the public case is not postponed, and we shall change the motion to be filed against the following crimes as a result of the "References of the following crimes." Umit White Smart Hakan İdalı Ahmet Kamil Erozan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0312par0200	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0311par0201	It's Mr. Ahmet Kamil Erozan of the Bursa MP who wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0313par0204	Mr. President, I've come to discuss the 23rd Amendment, but the Commission has refused. So I'm not going to talk about Article 23; I'm going to tell you the second part of what I talked about in the morning. And while I'm at it, I'll take you back to 1997. In 1997, in America, Clinton made the President and a strategy paper written by the American Century. The 21st century, which they call the American Century, is the coming year 1997. This strategy has had some byproducts. One of these products is the concept of the common state, or of the common country, another is Islam, another is the Great Middle East Project, another is Condoleezza Rice, which you all know will change. I'm afraid this has been confirmed over time by various examples from then on. There's a model of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know, a common state for Upper Karabuk, a transdinyester common state in Moldova, a common state in Abkhazia in Georgia, a common state of Ossetia in Georgia, a common state in Ukraine, now Donbass in Iraq, Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Management in Iraq. I'll be right back, what I mean. But if we go back to Operation Peace Fountain, we're looking at some discrepancies between what was said and what was done. As you may recall, Trump said, "Do not exceed your limits in a sense. Do not cross them." He called it Mr. President's echo 30km deep, 120km at the end. Now, when we put them together, whether we want to or not, we have to say, is there a consensus, as Trump said? On top of that, the TSK does not face meaningful resistance. Because the PYD-YPG forces and American soldiers have retreated 30 to 35km in the last two days, landing south of M4 Kara Road. Russia didn't miss the chance, what did she do? He convinced YPG-PYD, turned the security zone into a security pocket, unleashed Assad's forces on us, and tried to force us to meet Assad, as if by squeezing us into a pocket. In the coming days, we'll see how well you've accomplished this. We'll be facing another challenge. As Assad's union progresses, of course, the Syrian National Army will scatter like a freckle. I mean, I wish you wouldn't have used it in the morning. I'm talking about the troops I call. Because Assad would not put a bullet in the Turkish Armed Forces, but he treats those called the Syrian National Army as rebels and acts cruelly. I'd like to move on to another level of the subject. I'll be right there with the words I just said. The situation is that from 1997 to 1997, Democrats and democrats and democrats and Republicans headed this way in America. But America's policy of the century of America has not changed because it was a state policy. No matter who was in power, the Americans didn't give up on him. So when Republicans are in power, I don't think it's realistic to expect or think otherwise of democrats. So if Trump is accusing Obama today, don't believe it, the same policy continues. Why am I saying this? Superpowers have the luxury of making mistakes. And countries like us need to act after thinking not three, but four. We should also be aware that giant mirrors are always lying. Turkey has been given a pistol and is expected to play Russian roulette. Please be careful. If I go back to the beginning, we're in the throes of a new common state. It is in the power to prevent it. We're not in power, we only criticize you, we try to guide you. A common state is about to be formed in Syria. You may object to this today, but you did not object in time because your staff listened to the concept of this common state, the common country. What do I mean, they listened in awe? They listened to the Dolmabahçe declaration. Open the Dolmabahçe declaration, read the 9th article. It's not our fault. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit06spe0314par0212	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0314par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to 60, they have demands for words. Mr. Gürel? No. Mr. Nicemansur? No. Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0315par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, let's go to the execution table! Let's go to full independent Turkey! Down with America! Down with Deniz Gezmiş and his friends, chasing the 6th Fleet on the streets of Istanbul, singing the Gündoğdu anthem. Fifty years passed, and today the young men in the AK PARTY sang the March of Gündüz; and we welcome it, and it was good, and it came to their senses fifty years later. In addition, when my fellowman Mazuni said that America was a murderer, he went to prison and was tortured when he sang the song, and he started singing a lot of stories today. It's nice to see these things 50 years from now. I want them to listen to what we have to say today so they don't lose another 50 years. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0316par0013	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0317par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Deputy Director of the MPHP Group called me a special-educated agent provocateur. I return this statement exactly and condemn him. Dear friends, my family raised me, and my family taught me not to love, but to love, not to hate, but to love, to love the people you live with. But racists like the deputy president of the MHP Group feed on hate, establish their hate speech without prejudice.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0318par0017	You're the racist!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0319par0018	You're the racist!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0317par0019	Hate speech breeds hate crimes, let's not forget that. Hrant Dink was also exposed to hate speech, and unfortunately he was killed in this land because of this hate speech. But whatever you do...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0320par0021	Mr. Gürel...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0321par0023	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, according to valuable lawmakers in 2018, the export of the district of Ingegöl, Burma, showed $1 billion and the volume of foreign trade is $1 billion, $350 million. 42% of all exports belong to the employment-friendly furniture industry. More than 20,000 visitors from around 100 countries were accepted at the 42°rd edition of the MODEF EXPO International Furniture Fair, held on October 7th and 12th. In this context, exports have increased with the current business connection, and with our domestic and national design products, Ingegöl furniture has now become a world brand with 17 per cent of its contribution to exports. Our furniture industry, which serves three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, and our Mobileium Shopping Centre, have contributed greatly to this mission. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the capital of the furniture, Inegöl, continue to add value to our land and our country with the support of the AK PARTI governments, with a success story that doesn't fit in its container.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0322par0026	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0323par0028	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs announced in a joint statement issued following the Turkish-speaking Co-operation Council in Azerbaijan last day that Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzistan, Turkmenistan, Hungary and Kazakhstan had supported the Peace Fountain operation. This statement has been a crucial and historic step in announcing the unity and unity of the Turkish world by the most competent authorities. The bonds between our ancestral homeland, Turkistan and the Anatolian geography, are even more solid with this common text. Our wish is for the same history, the same language, to continue by increasing the cooperation between Turkish countries, who belong to the same religion; our goal is the great Turkish union. The unity between the Turkish states will bring justice, peace and peace to the entire region and even the jihana. The country is a large and life-threatening country: Turan.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0322par0029	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0324par0031	Mr. President, there's someone we should thank on behalf of the community today on World Food Day: food engineer, academic Bulent Şık. He's doing scientific research on public health, food safety, he's writing them down from a society perspective, he's putting them into practice with events he's organised. Since I've been a congressman, we've been working with him on everything that comes from food safety, pollution, pollution and threatens public health. We've brought up dozens of issues, such as chlorpirifos agricultural poison, obesity, palm oil, imported garbage, imported kitchen goods. He was tried for sharing the data of a cancer research conducted by the Ministry of Health and concealing its results with public opinion, and was sentenced to 15 months in prison. He was sentenced to 15 months in prison, but the Ministry of Health could not deny that information. We all have the right to know what the relationship is between pollution and health, and I thank him for that.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0322par0033	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0325par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know anyone, and I don't have anything to do with anyone. My words and reaction are a response and an accusation to the provocative words of the preachers and the preachers. The assassination of civilians is a reaction I have shown to the people and to certain statements that provoke the people and the country against one another. Look at the language of love! In his family's education, he means that he has a language of love. And I'll tell you this: I don't care if he returns those words, but what I said to him stuck to a label. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0326par0040	Mr. President, I'd like you to proceed with these terms. He told a member of parliament that he was a special agent provocateur, and that he stood by his words, the Deputy Chairman of the MHP Group. I ask you to take action concerning these words, according to the Civil Law.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0327par0041	Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have you read and vote on. At a meeting of the Counsellor's 16/10/2019 Wednesday, it was recommended that the General Assembly be submitted Thursday (17/10/2019) to ratify the meeting of Law Proposal No. 105, if the talks of Law Proposal 105 are completed. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 105. Commission? He's in position.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0328par0066	Mr. President, I have a request from you, please consider it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0327par0067	There are two motions on the 25th article, and I will process them according to the order of opposition. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 25 of the Law Proposal be removed from its text. Kemal Peközüm Mahmoud Toğrul Oya Ersoy Hüseyin Don't Run Mehmet Rüşç Tiryaki Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0329par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0327par0076	Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul wants to talk about the motion. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0330par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Dear friends, we're talking about a judicial package, but in fact, let me try to sum up to you a few articles on the state of the law and the state of the Constitution in the country. Dear friends, right now the Political Parties Act in the country is actually in fact being resolved. What do I mean? Political parties are virtually prevented from doing politics. For example, all of our party's actions and activities, his press statements, are even banned in front of the town hall, completely blocked. The armband puts itself on trial, and the judiciary has become a stick in the hands of the AKP. Dear friends, the right to choose in this country has been completely rescinded. So people can't choose the mayor for example, the elected mayor can be dismissed by the Ministry of Interior and replaced by trustees. People can become MPs because they've been exported to the KHK, but the mayor can't be a city councilman; he can make law, but he can't run the municipality. Dear friends, social media hunting has begun in Turkey. Every day, hundreds or even hundreds of people in this country are able to find themselves in prison the next day, in custody for a share of social media accounts.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0331par0084	The guilty shall be questioned about their deeds.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0330par0085	It's not a crime. Look, in this country, it's not allowed to say "kayium"; you're throwing trustees. You can't say "kayium."
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0331par0086	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0330par0087	It's forbidden to say war. We're the only country not allowed to oppose the war. Dear friends, freedom of press and publication is forbidden. The journalists who spoke and said one word against the AKP are in custody. Freedom of faith is forbidden, freedom of travel is forbidden. 2911 is conveniently available to any area. In fact, does the Constitution forbid political parties, for example, to meet with the public? It doesn't. There's no obstacle to it, but one condition says that if there is a imminent danger, you can apply 2911. But in our country, the governors apply 2911. They don't give any reason. Dear friends, there is no Constitution. Right now, Turkey is lawless and run unconstitutional. Just as George Orwell wrote in his book "1984," nothing was illegal because there is no law. There's no law. According to what, according to who... According to AKP's statement, everything you do can be considered a crime if you are opposed. The president has two hats. He can curse and insult opponents every day, but when someone comes back and answers him, you can't insult the president. He tries, but he does it every day. I'm the president of the political party. This is in the framework of political criticism. You insult the President when we say the same thing. Both your trustees and the President, you can't say a word to the trustees. For example, action is forbidden in the event to refer to it as Kayium. You'll call it Kayium. We won't let you act. They call it action. Dear friends, I'd like to give you one last warning: Look, the OSO you entered Syria with, the national army you call it, the OSO gangs you paired with Kuvaimilliya, are sharing ISIS-like images on social media. Our country could be condemned tomorrow in front of international law. This is where we make the warning. SOC gangs are the remains of ISIS, al-Qaeda, and you should know that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, my dear friends, I'd like to read you a short laedri poem: "War is expensive/ You need a cannon, a rifle, a plane." / Need a grudge, need a hate. / Most importantly, we need young, innocent people who will be sacrificed for it. / Peace is cheap, peace only requires conscience. / You need empathy and love. It says, "I salute the General Assembly."
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0332par0097	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to re-order and propose that the declaration of the penal code and the amendment to some laws be changed to the first amendment of Article 25 of the Law Proposal. Hope White Senol Sunat Muhammad Naci Cinisli Hasan Subaş Fahrettin Yoşüş Hüseyin Örs Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0333par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0332par0107	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0334par0110	Sir, according to 60, I have a request for a word. Speaking on the stand, the secretary stated that the President made abusive statements against the opposition that he could not even express from here. This is a delusion. First of all, our President sees our beloved nation as one nation, he knows, and he thinks he's approaching every member of our nation at equal distance.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0335par0113	Every day he tells the opponents that he's a traitor, he says that he's a terrorist, he tells them everything. How do you respond to that?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0334par0114	In this context, the head of administration in both presidential systems and parliamentary systems, the heads of state are always protected by special law. However, in our country, unfortunately, in our President's case -- although there are laws in the Turkish Penal Code -- there will be all kinds of insults, all kinds of insults, and then our President will not be allowed to use freedom of expression, not even freedom of self-defense, and we will never accept that. Look, first of all...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0335par0116	Thousands of people are being done every day... about the President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0336par0117	Not to the President, but not to anyone else.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0335par0118	No one should do it; no President should do it, and no one should insult the President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0337par0122	He wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0338par0125	Mr. President, I have been promised by the PARTI Group to discuss the 25th Amendment to the Criminal Law and some Laws. I salute you all with the utmost respect. The 25th article and Article 5271 of the Law shall be redacted as follows with the title of Article 252. I want to sum up, sort these changes. One: The provisions issued under Article 251 can be contested. In its time, non-responsive provisions are finalized. Two: The trial will be held by the court ruling on the objection, and the trial will continue according to the general provisions. Even if the parties don't come, the trial will be held, and it can be judged in accordance with Article 223 in its absence. Three: The court is not bound by its simple judgment as part of Article 251. Four: If there is an opportunity to apply these issues to other defendants who have not objected in favour of the defendant, the defendants will take advantage of the verdicts as if they had objected. Five: (2) The law can be applied according to the general provisions against the provisions given according to the third joke. Six: (1) When assessed by the court of which the objection was not carried out during the duration of the third joke, or by which there is no right to apply to the law, it is sent to the authority who is authorized to examine the objection under Article 268. Dear lawmakers, as you can see, the amendments have been arranged to appeal to the decisions made as a result of a simple trial. Dear lawmakers, the politicalisation of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary, in my opinion, are the most important issue of the Turkish judiciary. The packages, the reforms that we're going to take out before we do this, they're not going to be worth it, they're not going to serve its purpose. I want to make it clear from this platform that there is no judgment, no judgment, and no justice will come out of the judge's court that decides under the influence of politics. The independence of the judiciary, the politicalisation of the judiciary, and the addition of the judiciary, these three basic problems are the basis for distrust of our judiciary today. If we want to create a reliable and accessible justice system, we need to eliminate these three major problems. Dear lawmakers, one of the great scholars of our legal history, Cevdet Pasha, wrote in 1856: "What is necessary is that the ambience of the court is not trusted and that the judges should be certain of their own state of mind. Today, we call it the legal guarantee. We should heed the advice that Cevdet Pasha gave in 1856, otherwise the lack of neutrality of the judiciary, politicalisation, repair in the future, and damage that will not be possible to repair. Politics should leave the judiciary alone, and its judges should stay away from politics and politicians. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the final part of my speech, I'd like to express a request from our friends on the Public Employees' platform, who visited me today. The problems, demands and complaints of our citizens working on the 4/B staff are sometimes reflected in the press and are referred to as e-mails, telephones, or face-to-face. According to the current regulation, there is no right to appoint a term or excuse for employees in the 4/B staff, which is in line with the 657/b indefinitely. A new arrangement must be made for the appointment of 4/B staff personnel, especially for the appointment and replacement situation, and for the appointment of a partner, health care and education. These rights should be given to staff members of 4/B, who are not entitled to change their position and have no right to rise. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm so sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0339par0141	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0338par0142	The situation of staff members who have taken the same job or taken the same job or new arrangement should be taken into account, according to the principle of the social state, and should be eliminated by the contractual division, I respectfully salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0339par0144	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are 3 motions on the 26th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 26 of the Law Proposal be removed from its text. Kemal Peköz serpil Kemalbay Pekkeğeğü Hüseyin doesn't run away Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki Oya Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0340par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0339par0155	Sırpil Kemalbay Peköğeğü wants to talk about the proposal. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0341par0158	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I object to the dirty language used here earlier for our Diyarbakır MP, Garo Paylan, the saying of hate, and I would like to begin my remarks. Dear lawmakers, we don't have a judicial package ahead of us, we have a perception package. So in fact, this is a package that covers completely illegality, injustice. From the beginning, there is no such thing as the biggest violation of freedom of work and work. The president of the AKP, who says, "Everyone will get a job." This package has nothing to do with the workers' rights, it's a boss rescue package, it's an operation. Who are you going to reconcile with? 99% of the people who committed the crime were employers, acting as employers. There may be only one compromise between equal forces, but the laborer and the boss's forces are not equal. I want to show you the Soma workers who got fired. When 301 miners lost their lives, the workers of Soma were also laid off by the slaughter of workers. They've been walking for 12 days, but they haven't been able to get their rights in five years since they were fired. Again, the Cargill workers have been seeking their rights for two years, they've won the extradition, but they can't go back to work. Again, the servant of the city of Oliveburn was Kenan Güngör. He was thrown out with the KHK, returned to work with the court, and was fired again six minutes later. Dear friends, an MP, a member of this Parliament, a home worker who works at the home of AKP MP Smurf Unal, Nadira Kadirova, died in a suspicious state. Are Nadira Kadirova and the MP of the ruling party equal forces?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0342par0166	He told me the other day.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0341par0167	So when the two of them sit down to compromise, to compromise with Nadira's family, are these equal forces? No, there has never been a trial for Nadira Kadirova. So today, those who want peace and reconciliation are thrown into prison, but you send the workers their vaccine, their bread, their labor, their flesh's thorns to the negotiating table, trying to get them to compromise.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0343par0168	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0341par0169	This is called the eating table, not the reconciliation. There's no compromise in starving people. Again, the biggest violation was to the KHK. In one night, people were fired from their jobs by the President of the AKP. I'd like to show it to you. He was fired by KHK, where he died of a heart attack while applying for a job at İSKUR. Two years later, exports were found to be incorrect, returned to work. Now, what justice are we going to talk about, what compromise? So the biggest injustice is actually to see them as equal rights to the bosses for these workers. The people of the KHK will not give you their due, and I want to emphasize this from here. The crimes of humanity against the people of the KHK will return, and they will wander in your footsteps. If we seek the workers' rights, if we want them to gain their rights, then don't cast a shadow, no more favors. We say don't cut off the workers with the gendarmes, don't try to shut down the workers' unions, don't try to run their unions, remove the obstacles in the way of the workers' organization. We never accept this package. We're saying this package is a claim package. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0344par0174	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0345par0175	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0344par0176	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0345par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. The language of hatred, the dirty language? You will use all kinds of hatred, unclean language, and you will have the right to provoke, and to do black propaganda, and you will say, "Let us do all sorts of heavy things." But do not answer; then you will cry out when you have met these words with proper weight. That's not gonna happen. I find it useful for the speakers to know that the heavier the testimony, the more you make, the more you will be repaid. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0346par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0347par0184	Dear Smurf, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0346par0186	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the congressman who was just spoken to, have been harassing me again. Last week, I informed the Assembly of the incident at our house. Both me and my family gave the police and our republic's attorney our necessary statements, our fingerprints, everything. The process is currently under the control of the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the law. I wish I had more information so I could fill you in. Again, I don't accept the charges against me or the lynching of this MP. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0348par0192	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the Article 26 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. "The 'crimes' of Article 26 - 5271 in Article 3 of the Law 'against' have been changed to 'crimes' and added as 'crimes' in the following and changed to 'concerts', except those who have studied law or psychologists' following the statement of the twenty-fourth joke. 'There is no way to reconcile with violence against women or children.'" Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0349par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0348par0203	Bart's MP Aysu Bankoglu wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0350par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have made a promise on the 26th amendment of the proposal we're discussing, but I'll tell you about something else. The woman's name is unfortunately not mentioned again in this bill of law called "judgment reform" which is a big one, but is mostly not more than make-up.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0351par0209	This isn't a bag.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0350par0210	Unfortunately, any solution to the problems of women's rights in our country about how to stop women's murders has not been included again in this document, which is called "reform. " I would just like to remind all of our MPs that 2,097 women have been killed since 2015. How many women are in this country who have sought refuge in the government in fear so as not to be added to the women we call a number in one fell swoop? Countless. So, are we doing anything to protect them? I'm afraid not. I'd like to ask the AKP MPs, who have ignored the tragedy our women have been through, but who are the most common members of law -- don't you have a conscience, precious Regents? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Last week, we were at the Kurıkkale Courthouse with Republican People's Party MPs for the first hearing of Emine Bulut, who was murdered in front of his 10-year-old daughter. Those who said, "We do not want to die." The women's associations were there, the father of Ceren Damar (who was killed by his student) was there, and hundreds of our lawyers from different cities were there. The heart would have wanted that when the video of the murder hit social media and created an infinitive, if those who quickly came to the hearing had come to the trial, you would have given the importance of this vital matter that should have been political.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0352par0215	You're doing politics here now.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0350par0216	Today was the 4th hearing of the trial of Shule Chet, and Republican People's Party MPs were there. Yes, how many more AKP governments are waiting for Emine Bulut, Shule Çetίn, Ceren Damarί, who are not willing or not willing to implement the Istanbul Convention? (HPP) We expect to improve our legislation and implement the existing one, in spite of those who want to give up the Istanbul Convention. Look, when women's murders are put on the media, the most competent mouths are competing against each other to curse each other from the highest curtains, but these reactions stay and go on one time, and then they're forgotten. But there's a lot to be done. In this law, where many fundamental issues are swept under the carpet, we, for example, would expect a consultation with women's rights organizations. Because we can't stress a structural change by pretending that these organizations don't exist, we can't take steps. Again, we'd expect good behavior and unfair incentive reductions to be removed from women's murders and sexual harassment cases against children. Because it's unacceptable to protect a killer with a tie and a bow around his neck under the umbrella of good behavior. We also wanted the persistent pursuit to be considered a crime in the context of the Turkish Penal Code because it is considered a separate crime in many countries, and it is another type of violence against women that must be avoided. As you may recall, in the case of Opuz-Turkey, which had been a significant case of persistent pursuit, the European Court of Human Rights had also found a violation of rights and sentenced our country to compensation. We also expected that women who were in prison with their babies would be sentenced to house arrest on certain conditions. For example, we would expect the suggestions offered by GREVIO (GREVIO) who followed the implementation of the Istanbul Convention to be considered.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0353par0222	Who signed the Istanbul Convention?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0350par0223	Unfortunately, the fact that the offer does not include violence and child abuse against women is documented for us that power remains in the classroom. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Our citizens expect us to have rights, law and justice, and in the first place equality, valued lawmakers; they expect the issue to be resolved by a nonpartisan social consensus. Precious lawmakers who don't see her as an individual, who just call her a good wife and a good mother, can't solve the problems that women suffer.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0354par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0350par0228	Unfortunately, you failed to pass the intimacy test again, but let's not have all the MPs, all the lawmakers, all the men and women, hold hands to solve these problems that women are having this time, and let's not have the woman's name mentioned. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0354par0231	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the amendments to the First Amendment of the Law Proposal, which is included in the first joke of Article 26 of the Law Law Act and some Laws. Hope White Smart Hakan Sedali Enez Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0355par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0354par0241	Ankara MP Durmiş Yilmaz wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0356par0244	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to share the views of the GOOD PARTY on Article 26 of the Law Proposal for the Law on Corrections of 105 rows and some Laws. Article 26 of the Law proposal changes by redesigning Article 253 of the Penal Code No. 5271. Given the general orientation in the world's criminal justice systems, the rapid dissolution of justice is expanded to the list of crimes within the scope of settlements in the courts for liquidation. The twenty-day extension can be extended no more than two times, in case the broker cannot complete his activities once, including violations of housing immunity, theft, fraud crimes, as well as an extension of the proposed amendments. An approach that prioritizes economic benefits, aims to lighten the file load, contains legal and social reservations. For one thing, crimes against women and children should be outside the scope of reconciliation regardless of their perpetrators. On the other hand, it is contrary to some regulations of the European Court of Human Rights of Human Rights, religion and conscience, freedom of conscience, freedom of opinion, freedom of opinion, freedom of expression, and freedom of expression, and freedom of expression, and freedom of expression, and freedom of speech, and some regulations of the European Court of Human Rights, which are part of the Union of Social and Economic Rights and Homework. Because in an environment where the judiciary has become politically neutral and has lost its neutrality, it will cause rights violations of such crimes to be brought together. And yet, can this bag of legislation set in front of us be called judicial reform? Mr. Minister of Justice, we're having some problems in the independence of the judge, in his neutrality. There are also problems in harmony with the Court of Human Rights. We're preparing a reform package to resolve these. What is new about human basic rights and freedoms that are being offered after saying so? Yes, it is clear that a reform is needed in our country's justice system, but this reform must begin from the Constitution, and should not be carried out by the provisions of the bag of law. Like freedom of speech, freedom of travel, freedom of person and security, rights and freedoms intended to be strengthened by this law proposal have already been regulated by the Constitution and laws and have been sided with many relevant international contracts. Therefore, reform should be carried out in practice, not above the text of the law. The provisions in our constitution must be internalized, and the implementation must ensure the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. The legal and educational system is largely independent of political views in countries where the legal order is in place, where the rule of law is established. Regardless of his political opinion, politicians are aware of the value of a well-designed law or educational system, but reform in Turkey has been a tool for taking over law and education. For example, in February 28th, the continuing implementation of the SEC Law, which we conservatives are very complaining about, without any change, is due to this culture of possession.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0357par0253	Complete it, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0356par0254	In the last 15 years, the average year of 2004-2019 has been brought to an arrangement for one legal reform, but unfortunately, what we see is that these changes have not reached its goal because we've made the changes with the culture and the motive of taking over, rather than the purpose and the mentality of reform. As a result, an arrangement that oversees the execution of independent courts' judicial decisions cannot be referred to as "reform" as it is now being made. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0357par0257	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There's a motion on the 27th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the amendment to the Law Act and to some Laws shall be changed to the amendment to the first amendment of Article 27, which is included in the first verse of Article 27. Ümit White Zeki Hakan Sedali Arslan Shellcucuoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0358par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0357par0268	Eskişehir MP Arlekcuoğlu wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0359par0271	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This offer that we're discussing is an arrangement of many wrongs, even though it has been presented to the community under the name of "reform. " These changes, brought up on the charge of reform, will lead to new regulations that will need to be made again in the future. The institute of higher education has approved the inferiority of our country's secondary school, allowing the first 15,000 students to enter law school, posting the failure of the state on the student in secondary school. Is the problem staying here? Are we learning from the failure of middle school? No. Unfortunately, it continues to be insensitive. Our young people have to suffer the mistakes of those who run our national educational system and those who lead it. If you had spent 1.5 billion Turkish dollars on education that you donated to a contractor, you would have given a lot of young people a future. Instead of taking an upgrade to the level of education of law schools, you're telling the rabbit to take an entrance exam to their legal professions after school is over, and you're telling him to take a greyhound. It's our main problem and our problem that judges are hesitant to act in accordance with the law in the environment of pressure created by political power to apply the "amama" and "alakin" in the resolution of inconsistencies. Imagine that these pressures and fears have brought justice to such a point that the same delegation that ordered the evacuation could make an arrest hours later. One of the changes required is that the number of judges and prosecutors' candidates be raised to seven. If you want to raise a good lawyer, you need to raise a judge who will judge with conscience and wisdom instead of a judge who will judge by the eye of the execution. You're interviewing. There must be transparent and objective interviews where the questions are in envelopes, where the candidate chooses his own question envelope, where audio and visual recordings are made. Our Constitution, which puts a special emphasis on the professions of judges and prosecutors, decides that no body, authority, authority or person can give orders and instructions to judges and judges cannot be dismissed. So our Constitution demands that judges conduct judicial affairs regardless of legal legislation and their consciences, regardless of the influence of the administration. The independence and collateral of the judges, unfortunately, is still on the island, which is severely shaken when it takes its first step into the profession. The shocking effect is the compassionate understanding that puts roots in state institutions and leaves society one step at a time to rot. As a result, it's not fairer to raise palaces of justice, it's not a matter of respect for justice within the community. It has been 11 years since the Eskişehir Courthouse was built, and due to the number of files which have doubled, the Eskişehir Court Office is looking for another building. If we want to increase the Turkish nation's confidence in justice, keep the judicial profession at its proper level, first of all, the power over the judiciary must be removed, the principle of separation of forces must be established. There is no justice by increasing the penalties for citizens, by reducing them. Members of parliament, the Republic of Turkey is a country that defends the comfort of the West, fighting against the DEAŞ, accepting immigrants to go to the West. The laborer, the peasant, the officer, the tradesman. In recent reports, German Wolkswagen's investment in Manisa will be transferred to another country. This is an injustice to the Turkish worker, the peasant, his officer, his tradesman. Our Supreme Assembly must seize the case immediately, make the necessary attempt by Germany's Ankara Embassy to keep an investment in Turkey for a delegation to be formed in parliament. My respects.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0360par0281	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 29th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 29 of the Law Proposal be rearranged in the following way. " AT the end of the second joke of Article 286 of the Law 29 - 5271, the following sentence and the third joke were added. "However, in the court's decisions issued under the same file, appeals are subject to other provisions that are not subject to appeal. The same decision can also be applied to appeal against provisions that have been made over five years in total. "3) Even if it is within the scope of an appealable decision stated in the second joke, the verdicts of the district court of justice for the following crimes may be appealed: a) Under the Turkish Penal Code; 1. It's an insult to a public official. [[m. 125/3]] 2. A threat to create fear and panic among the public (matter 213) 3. Prohibition (matter 214), 4. Congratulation of crime and criminal (matter 215), 5. Instigating people to hatred or hostility (matter 216) 6. Inflammatory to disobey the law (matter 217), Seven. The Organization for the purpose of committing a crime (matter 220/6-7), 8. Resisting to avoid the assignment (m. 265) Nine. An insult to the President (matter 299), 10. Humiliating the sign of government sovereignty (matter 300), 11. The Turkish Nation, the state of the Republic of Turkey, the institutions and organs of the state (matter 301) 12. Armed organization (matter 314), 13. Restricting people from military service (matter 318) Crimes. B) The second and fourth of Article 6 of the Anti-Terror Code and the second of Article 7 of Article 7. C) The first joke of Article 28 of the Law on Meetings and Show Marchs. Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Alpay Antmen Rafet Zeybek Ünal Demirtaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0361par0313	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0360par0314	Zonguldak MP Ünal Demirtaş wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0362par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a promise on Article 29 of the Law proposal, but I will first express my views on the overall package. Despite some shortcomings and shortcomings, this offer to the General Assembly is in fact a positive provision, in its essence. First of all, I'd like to thank everyone who's worked so hard on this offer. But even though this offer was positive, we're reforming the judiciary like this, and it's been made public in terms of a great judgment, and the public has come to expect a great deal. But it turns out the mountain has given birth to mice. The judicial package couldn't meet public expectations. This package is limited to a technical arrangement rather than reform. Dear MPs, the first paragraph of the proposal has revealed the goal of a reliable and accessible judiciary. It's actually a confession. What is this confession of? After 17 years, it is a confession that there is no reliable and accessible judiciary in Turkey. Today's untrusted and unattainable judiciary has actually begun in 2007 with cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer. The most important breaking point in the judiciary was the September 12, 2010 referendum. What happened in 2010? The leader and, unfortunately, I'm sorry -- the AK PARTY government tried to release a package of judgment together. And what did he say in this referendum? Even the dead must vote. The referendum has passed and the 2010 referendum has been a breaking point in the judiciary, a mile in the judiciary. After that, Turkey was also in a major judicial crisis. Many important stones have been moved in the judiciary, and a new structure has emerged, and the judiciary, unfortunately, has become completely political. After the traitor's coup, the judges tried to clear the court. Of course, we appreciate that, and we think that this struggle should continue, but unfortunately, those who come after the cleans up, have been shown mercy to those who go. What happened? Unfortunately, the AK PARTY lawyers were appointed judges, prosecutors. Dear lawmakers, one man's regime is the first button of the shirt and the first button is buttoned wrong. It's because the first button is buttoned wrong, which doesn't come together on both sides of the trial today. That's no way to judge, dear friends. Package, package, piece by piece, no justice, dear friends, justice is one. Come, let us form a commission of all parties, and in six months we shall establish a judicial system that is suitable for Turkey, which all parts of society can accept, trust, and access. Dear lawmakers, I also highly favour the introduction of the Introduction Exam for Legal Studies, but the five-year extension of the application clause in Article 6 has been extremely wrong. Today, there are about 127 thousand lawyers registered in the bar, about 23,000 interns, and it is stated that 80,000 lawyers will be given licenses again until the examination. What does that mean? Five years from now, 200,000 lawyers run a free profession. Dear friends, this is a number that can cause the work of a lawyer to be shaken from its foundation. If the practice of law is shaken by its foundation, the judiciary will be shaken by its foundation. I think this arrangement should go into effect immediately. Yes, the appeal was closed against the verdicts made by the criminal court on charges of defamation, praising crime and crime, praising people for hatred and hostility, defaming the President, but with Article 29 of the Article 29, this has been extended. The sentences issued by these first-degree courts were approved because there was no independent and impartial judiciary, and unfortunately, our citizens were going to the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights because they could not appeal to the Supreme Court, and in this way the number of cases increased. This clause extends the scope of crimes to appeal to the Supreme Court. So this material is a very accurate arrangement, but it is a missing arrangement in some ways, even though it has been the right arrangement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you could just give me one more minute, Mr. President, I'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0363par0328	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0362par0329	Dear lawmakers, the punishments that are part of this clause are in fact punishments that we do not often face in democratic countries; they are usually punishments in Turkey that prevent freedom of thought and expression, freedom of the press. Therefore, it is the punishment that keeps the country's agenda busy almost every day. One of them is the case of contempt for the President, which is on the country's agenda at all times. Unfortunately, Mr. President is the president who has the most lawsuit against his citizens in the world. Tens of thousands have been investigated in four years, and tens of thousands have been punished for this crime. In democratic countries, such a crime does not exist. I think the blame for insulting the President should be lifted completely. Dear lawmakers, if we truly want justice to come to Turkey, we need to return to the reinforced parliamentary regime, we need to establish the separation of forces, and I think we need to ensure the neutrality and independence of the judiciary. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0364par0333	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adding the following subroutine (e) to the 29th article (e) to come after the 11th row of the Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Act 105 and some Laws. 12. Establishing a criminal organization (matter 220/6-7-8. We offer and propose that the continuing (b) and (c) benges be identified from now on. Ayşe Acar Başaran Zuleyha Gülüm Kemal Peköz Hüseyin Do not Run Mahmut Celayet Gaydalı Mehmet Rüşç Tiryaki Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0365par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0364par0344	Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0366par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. Friends, when we talked about this proposal in the Commission process, we offered a lot of criticism, right, as a judicial reform, but unfortunately we're looking at a package with no judicial reform. For a while, even though it may be considered to open up this blockage in the judiciary, at the very least, a package that will not solve the judicial issue in Turkey, because in Turkey, the resolution of the judiciary's problem, first of all, the full independence of the judiciary, the implementation of the separation of men is 100 percent, and very strict. But unfortunately, in our country, we have a politicalized judiciary, the perspective of politics, the approach, even the approach to daily politics, a decision-making mechanism. Now, I'm going to talk about Article 29 of this bill. In this article, there is an extension of the court's closure of the Supreme Court in terms of crimes over five years. Positive? Affirmative, that's right. We've already offered a lot of criticism, and the law courts are working like notarys, not a trial mechanism. We also presented examples of these. One of the most important examples of these is that when we present them here, you can't say that they're very angry and angry again, but one of the most important examples of them was that of our former Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş and Sırrı Sırrıyya Önder. You know, at that time, the European Court of Human Rights had decided that the European Court of Human Rights had decided to evacuate him immediately, and in a speech made by the President, he said, "We will take precautions." He said, "We will accept the case within the same days." Later, Sırrı Tilleyya Önder took the file to the Constitutional Court regarding this case, was issued a violation, was released, but was imprisoned for eight months. Now, how can we afford an eight-month loss of rights? We can't. That's right, in that sense, the court of law was working as a notary, which is important to prevent and at least open a path to the Supreme Court. But is the Supreme Court so different from this? We don't know. Now, in the coming process, we'll see in practice because the Supreme Court makes similar decisions. Let me give you an example of this, dear friends. Now, we all know about the TK main case. The TK main case, like the sledgehammer, was a trial of the congregation formation of the era, such as Ergenekon, where police, prosecutors, were preparing a trial of indictments. In fact, the president of this trial, the president, has been sentenced to two aggravated life sentences for being a member of the community. However, despite the fact that this file was fiction, a conspiracy, a political conspiracy, even though it was an attack on our party, our political approach, the Supreme Court recently approved this file, at least the majority of it -- at least here -- a conspiracy by the parishioners -- was not discussed, but you may recall that shortly after July 15th, the KCK main case was shown as a community conspiracy, which was recently removed from the site when we described it. So if the Supreme Court is really going to work as a neutral, independent mechanism, it's true, it's a very good arrangement, but as I said, the judiciary is now being used as a means of expanding the political spectrum of political power, which, as I say, is in power's hands, to silence the opposition, to discipline the opposition. I'll give you another example. Today are the hearings of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Co-Chair Gültan Kışanak and DBP Co-Chair Sebahat Tuncel. They have been under arrest since November 2016, since 2016, since 2016, when they have been arrested for their political opposition to power, because they have actually expressed their opinions and opinions. Here's the practice of power, in fact. Like I said, there's no reform in this package. We said, "You can close the matter for a while, but reform will not come." Now, we also have a concern for this clause, and we would like to ask the Commission to make a specific statement on this issue. Now, the Supreme Court has opened its path to certain articles here, but especially in terms of freedom of expression... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have another minute to tidy up?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0367par0356	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0366par0357	Now, the Supreme Court has been opened here, especially since it is worth the freedom of expression, even if it is sentenced to under five years in particular for some crimes. These substances are counted one by one, we think they're missing, so especially TCK 220, 6 and 7. So he's a freakin' substance. We've already ordered this clause to be removed directly from the law...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0368par0358	That's 314/3.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0366par0359	That's what we're asking the Commission to say with an explanation. I know we've had a lot of discussions in the Commission, but let's rephrase the fact that there's still a general public concern. It's said to be happening at least 314, but at least if there's a statement from the Commission, we think it might shed some light on the trial and on the judicial mechanism in the coming process, which we think should be given from here. As I was saying, friends, in the next packages, I hope we'll talk about the reformary arrangements here. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0369par0363	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0370par0365	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0371par0366	Mr. President, the Commission will make a statement regarding Article 29.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0369par0367	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0370par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, Mr. Başaran (Second Law of Turkish Penal Code 220) has come with a demand for an explanation for the hesitation of the sixth and seventh jokes. We're now discussing the substance that expands the scope of appealable decisions. In Article 314 of the Turkish Penal Code, the armed group is organized. The organization is an armed terrorist group. The first and second joke of Article 314 is that he has already been able to appeal to the terms of his sentence, and there is no hesitation there. The reason for the proposal we are discussing in Article 314 is because it is included in the box of Article 29 (the third article of Article 314) and because it is sent in the third joke of Article 314, this provision is made to ensure that the Article 220 is covered, especially in the sixth and seventh jokes, and that the sentences given on the basis of these jokes can be appealed. In the sixth joke of Article 220, it has been decided that the person who committed the crime on behalf of the organisation will also be punished for being a member of the organisation, while the seventh joke of the 220 is not included in the organization's hierarchy, but that the person who aided the organisation intentionally and willingly can be punished as an organisation member. The aim of the proposal, due to the reference to Article 314, will be to be able to appeal under Article 220, Number 7 under Article 314. This view also applies to the overall spirit of the package. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0372par0371	There are two motions on the 30th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Penal Code 105 and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Article 30271 of Article 5271 of Article 308/A of Article 282/A of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 282/A shall be replaced and proposed. Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0373par0380	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0372par0381	Anyone want to talk about the motion? No. It is intended to conform to the technique of lawmaking with change. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and submit to the amendment of the First Amendment of Article 30 of the Law Proposal to the Law Act and Some Laws. Ayhan Erel Umit Fahrettin Tophill Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Yasin Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0374par0394	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0372par0395	Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdlı wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0375par0398	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. Without further ado, all these amendments to society as reforms are not reforms, but a simple revision. Look, reform is in the mind. What mentality are we making with this package? What's in this package to increase the rule of law? Our basic rights and freedoms will increase? Are we going to strengthen the separation of forces, or are we going to improve the view of human rights, or are we going to take steps that will be genuinely balanced and controlled? When we look at Turkey today, neither the forces are divided nor the fundamental rights and freedoms are fully implemented. This principle is suspended as a result of our presidential system in our country. Now it's obvious that the presidential decree replaces the law in the division of forces, but how, it's not clear. Everyone's confused. You started in a hurry with early election anxiety, and we all pay the price. A total of 46 presidential decrees have been issued in the past 13 months. As the legal area was established, the legal norms, which should be discussed in parliament, were implemented by a single hand and by an unknown process of how many were discussed, based on what was decided. Of the 46 decrees published, 22 have been published, 24 have been re-published to correct the shortcomings and errors of the decrees brought to an end, which had not been discussed before. As the first button is buttoned wrong, it's up to the public to correct it and pay for its mistakes. The rule of law is the country of no condition. Our beloved Assembly, which has made its word, is the only address of the laws to be made according to the people. While the parliamentary system was being implemented, the public was always here, but just to be quick, the unilateral but undeterred decrees are destroying the people's will for legislation day by day, causing the public's trust in law to fall to 38 percent, as Mr. Oktay said. In a statement, the Minister of Justice said that confidence in the judiciary should increase. Mr. Oktay and Mr. Gul are right. Now, I ask: Will trust in the judiciary grow when this proposal passes, and will our reputation, credibility, increase in the world in the European Court of Human Rights? Trust in the judgment, the forces will increase if we can lift custody over the judiciary by following the separation. The administration must immediately withdraw its hand from the judiciary, as well as our legislature, we must complete our work once and for all, and by compromise in the commissions, we must pass the laws that will meet the demands of our people, and we must stand aside. Congressmans, their trial period is incredibly long. So in the trial, the target time principle was all set together, but the current situation shows that the trial period was not shortened, but it grew. You have to reduce the crime rate to shorten the trial time. This is provided only by raising the level of education and prosperity of a citizen. Our report card for education and prosperity is, unfortunately, very weak. Long trial periods also lead to the issues we face most in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I, too, have difficulty explaining this matter as a parliamentary speaker representing our High Council on this council. We prefer to trim the tree rather than solve the problem radically. The average trial period in Europe is 100 days, while the Ministry of Justice announced the average trial period in criminal courts is two hundred and thirty-one days, and two hundred and eighteen days in court. You can object to this data, and you're actually right, because they last released the data in 2015. I wonder why it hasn't been explained in four years. Will our average trial time reach a hundred days, European standard, with this quote-unquote judicial reform? If not, what are we doing here? We say it all the time, and we're right every day. I want to repeat: there is no new system. The parliamentary system is the only way out of this chaos. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0376par0408	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 31, which I shall take according to the order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Law Proposal be removed from the text of Article 31 of the Penal Code 105 and some Laws. Kemal Peközük Ayşe Acar Başaran Oya Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0377par0418	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0376par0419	İstanbul MP Züleyha Gülüm wants to talk about the motion. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0423	Yeah, a lot's been said about the judgment package. In fact, there's nothing more to be said in the judgment package, maybe this gap creates so much discussion. In fact, before we discuss the package of justice, we need to ask whether there is a government in this country that meets the Constitution, the law, or international contracts. Even if you do the most perfect judicial reform, if you bring in the most perfect laws, if there's no power to abide by it, there's no reward, as there is now. So we actually have to change the law before we discuss the table, in a country where everything is based only on one man's regime; or whatever law you do, I don't obey, I don't care about international contracts, I don't care about the Constitutional Court's decision and I don't care about the decision of the ECHM. But let's see, there's no truth to the law when there's a government that says, but let's see what's expected. It's not about the judgment package; it's not full of content, but it comes as a wave of attack on our gains. The power gave the good news, and the second package is coming. What's coming? There's an attack package coming into women's gains. What are they gonna do? They're gonna take away our alimony.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0379par0425	Who said that?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0426	What are they gonna do? They're gonna marry the kids off to rapists.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0379par0427	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0428	Under the name "Af" (Aft) and under the name "Property of the Family")
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0379par0429	You're reading intent, intent.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0430	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0379par0431	You're reading intent, intent.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0432	I'm listening, you listen.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0379par0433	You're reading intent. Don't lie for us.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0434	I'm not lying. I'm listening, you listen!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0379par0435	Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0436	I'm not dealing with you. Please, can you step in?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0380par0437	He's saying it in the press.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0381par0438	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0378par0439	I'm giving my speech.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0380par0440	That's what's going on with the press.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0381par0441	Congressmans, let's hear it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0382par0442	He's not right.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0381par0443	Mr. Ali, come out and talk, brother.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0382par0444	Mr. President, I mean...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0383par0445	He's talking to the press; he's talking to the General Assembly now.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0381par0446	Here you go, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0384par0447	Now, we know that you've had a long history of marrying children to a rapist. You didn't hide it, you made it very clear before, and now we know you're going to bring this law from the press. It's not a new situation. You're trying to put the situation that you've tried to pull back before because of the social opposition, and now you're trying to put it in the middle of what is called "judgment reform." Don't let the rapists get in the way. On the other hand, there's democracy in this country, freedoms, and I'll put you on a list of bans: for God's sake, it's not over with counting, but you forbid the KHK people from gathering for survival. You forbid us to say that the prisoners who are sick are being killed in prisons. In this country, you are suing us for saying that children should not have to grow up in prisons. It is forbidden to gather in this country, not to make press statements, not to organize, not even to hold a closed gym meeting, not to defend nature, not to protest women's murders, not to march in the Kaz Mountains, not to jump in the sea for Hasankeyf, not to walk in Ankara for the Soma workers, not to defend our co- ministry system. It's forbidden to say "sarah" or "war" or "war." It's forbidden to say "crisis." It's forbidden to say, "Does are rising, we can't get along, we can't get along." It's forbidden to say "peace against war" right now; it's forbidden not to speak with the language of power; it's not even forbidden to speak with the language of power, it's not enough to shut up. You have to say what the power says. You say. And that's not enough, and you say in the House, "You will speak as we wish when we speak, and you will not be allowed to speak any other way."
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0385par0449	You're not allowed to come to the council in jeans, you're wearing jeans.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0384par0450	What are you afraid of? Why are you afraid we'll talk? Why are you afraid of the public's speech? Why are you afraid of the workers talking? Why are you afraid of women talking? Why are you afraid of the speech of those who defend nature? You know who's scared? Those who want to hide the truth are afraid to cover it up. That's why you cover it up because you want to cover up the facts, because you're wrong. You're attacking because you're wrong. You attack people, you attack women, you attack society. That's all you care about. Yes, you fought a war. You started this war against the gains of the Kurdish people, you started it against the gains of all the peoples in the region, but you're also starting this war because you can't digest a country, a country where the people live in equal conditions. You're also losing power, yes, you're losing power.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0386par0452	That's for the public to decide.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0384par0453	Now, you're hoping that you won't lose this power, and you're saying that this war will bring us back to power. I'm sorry, this war won't save you, your power will go away and you'll go away. Finally, there's a line of defense that we observe in cases of women's murders.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0387par0456	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0384par0457	In this defense, male perpetrators often say: "I am forced to do so, she has provoked me, so I killed her. Please don't make that argument around here.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0388par0459	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0387par0460	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and (b) that the history of 1st joke (b) of the 1st joke (e.g. 1/9/9/202020) be changed by Article 5271 of the Penal Code (e.g. 1/5/202020) under Article 31 of the Law Proposal. Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Alpay Antmen Rafet Zeybek Mehmet Güzelmansur Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0389par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0387par0470	Hatay MP Mehmet Güzelmansur wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0390par0473	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 31st Amendment of Law Proposal 105 in session. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, this bill, which we are discussing, which is neither the Charter Reform Strategy Document, nor the purpose and goals of this document, is far from solving the real issues of justice and justice in our country. No matter how you look at it, there's no justice in it. Whereas there are millions in our country who are hungry for true justice, seeking justice. As we have citizens in our country awaiting justice, we have cities awaiting justice, and Hatay is the head of these cities. Yes, dear lawmakers, Hatay is awaiting justice. In what areas, why is justice waiting, and now I'm going to tell you one by one: Hatay is awaiting justice because he has hosted 5 times the number of 100,000 Syrian asylum seekers for all Turkey, called the psychological threshold, when the Syrian civil war broke out in 2011, for eight years. Hatay is awaiting justice because the fact that two and a half million people split the source, which has been transferred to Hatay Metropolitan Municipality as if there were 1,600,000 people living in Hatay, according to Hatay. In Hatay, patients expect justice because while our citizen is waiting in line for health care, while paying for participation, he does not think it fair that the Syrians have access to free health care. The people of Defne, Payas, Belen and Arrogant await justice. Our people are dying because they can't reach health care on time in these counties of ours, which is not the hospital that we're always talking about on this stand. In Hatay, students expect justice because they suffer from lower quality in the mixed education system with the Syrians. The children who have just started training are falling behind because Syrian students don't speak Turkish. According to other provinces of Turkey, they begin training at 1-0. This has led to a negative impact on educational processes until college lives. Hatay's tradesman expects justice because he can't do business because of the unfair competition created in front of the Syrian tradesman, who is not obliged to hire room fees, social security payments, accounting. Hatay's investor expects justice because banks consider Hataya a potentially risky region. The interest rate used by a company in Hatay is not the same as the interest rate used by a company in Istanbul because banks view Hatay as a risky area. Hatayli unemployed young people are awaiting justice because they have been unable to work for years, not only because investment and employment opportunities have come to a standstill because of the Syrian civil war that has been going on for eight years, but also because of the preferential employment of the Syrians. Hatayite farmers await justice because despite false planning and nature, not a single concrete step is taken to compensate for the loss of their land, their products, which have been underwater for months each year in the Amik Plain. The cotton manufacturer can't even afford the cost of an age vegetable-fruit manufacturer. She's rotting in a citrus branch because the citrus was sold at a price ten years ago. Samandagian, Defneli, Erzinian citrus manufacturer, needs justice. The farmer who tries to draw water out of the artery and pays off both electricity and water because of the dams that turned into a snake story. He wants to water it with charm, but the farmer is sinking in debt in Hatay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Hatayli oil producer expects justice because we will bring it with export record, and it will not harm the local manufacturer. The manufacturer can't even sell at cost. The buyers stopped buying local olives. Because of the internal release of Afrin olive oil, the damage to each manufacturer increased to 100 thousand liras.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0391par0488	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0390par0489	Hatay's mover is waiting for justice. Before the Syrian war, Hatay transports 97 percent of the products that were exported to the Middle East in particular, but the Hatayian transports no longer carry Hatay from our border gate to 14 countries. Kayseri furniture exporter, Gaziantep carpet exporter now carries their goods by sea. It is not difficult to eliminate the inequality that Hatay faces in Hatay, because Hatay is the city of tourism, the city of gastronomy, the city of industry. With such feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly once again, and salute all my citizens in the hope that justice, which begins with the march of our President Kemal Kilicdaroglu, and becomes the cry of the millions, will truly dwell in this land forever. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0392par0494	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following changes of the interim 5th clause (1) (e) clause, which is envisioned to be added to the Penal Code under Article 31, in accordance with the current Law Proposal 105. As of the date when this clause is in effect, there will be no postponement of a civil suit in the cases in which the prosecution has been processed. Özlem Rich Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bulent Turan Kemal Çelik Radiye Sezer Kırcıcıoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0393par0504	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0392par0505	No one wants to talk about the motion. The framework of the proposal is removed from the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision for prepayment and reconciliation by changing the 1st (e) memorandum of the interim Article 5 (e) added to the Penal Code. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 31, I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is one motion on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 33 of the Penal Code 105 and Amendment in some Laws added to Article 19 of Child Protection Law 5395. We propose and provide that the phrase "in order to be changed" in the form of the phrase "in the image. " Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0394par0520	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0392par0521	Anthalya MP Rafet Zeybek wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I read yesterday the text of the executive's speech against the members of the judiciary, some of the fellow lawmakers object. But today I'm going to read what the judges have shared with the nation, what they've proposed. I have no doubt we'll agree on that.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0395par0526	This place has started all over again.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0396par0527	I mean, let me read it. Dear lawmakers, a judge -- he was on duty now, before March 31st, as well as a member of the municipal election board -- is sharing what I'm going to read from his social media account before the election: The Cumhur Alliance 1; March 16: The Cumhur Alliance is not just an election alliance, it is not just an alliance of two parties. Asia Minor is one nation based on the values of Turkish-Islam history. This unity is also a historical responsibility and obligation. The Cumhur Alliance 2: That's the first step in the revelation of this magnificent essence. We need to appreciate this step and demand and support it. That's when we get back to ourselves and find ourselves. That's when we take care of our historical responsibility and ideals. The Cümhur Alliance 3; March 18: Today is the leader of Erdogan, which he has co-operated with most of our nation. God exists, and Erdogan deserves it. We must unite around him. A man like the peaceful state by name, the Gardener has been the most important actor in the union by seeing the enemy's accounts. The enemy has mobilized all weapons to eat the nation's leader Erdogan. Erdogan's collapse is that the state is once again the satellite of the United States, and former Turkey is the fervorous one that follows the tail of the West. The Cumhur Alliance 5; March 20: Today in Turkey, the ranks are clear. On the one hand, the front, designed by the operations of the United States, CIA and ا, is the AK PARTI-MHP front, which is native and national on the other. The Real political and political conjunctive compels the AK PARTI-MHP alliance to become a power. I'm curious to know who assured the PKK and ▪ that if the National Alliance wins, they'll be able to breathe and collect and fatten up. There is no question of beka. It is dedicated to those who say, "Beca." My dear friends, this is a judge.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0397par0535	No April Fool's Day?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0396par0536	This judge, before a local election, you're applauding -- yes, he's propaganda for parties. (CHP clapping in rows) I refuse! I resent it! If this is your justice and your neutrality, let there be no justice and no such neutrality! [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] So what you're saying here is that judicial reform... I take it normal for a judge not to do politics -- and in those days, when we say that the judge shouldn't work on the municipal election board after these shares, the politicians will do it, and he will do his politics, and he will judge. Guys, come on, please. Don't, I mean, it's going to do politics, it's going to be a judge, it's going to be a judge, it's going to be a financial situation. Get it out, it's a law, you do it, you do it!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0398par0542	The Constitution must be changed.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0396par0543	Let's change it up. I mean, there's an actual situation, and it's going according to the actual situation.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0398par0544	But we have to do it together.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0396par0545	My dear friends, look, six months ago, I informed the Council of Judges and Prosecutors that this judge was sharing these shares. I said, "Do what is necessary." Mr. Deputy Secretary is here, and I don't know what's been done for six months. But this judge continues to share, or rather share, very comfortable. The dire thing is, do you know where he gets his power? He's using a law-destroying government force. It's that simple. The law has been destroyed.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0399par0547	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0396par0548	My dear friends, look, I mean, in a society, you're going to do election propaganda, I'm going to read this, and you're going to clap there. That's it, that's it. After that, when I say this, the judgment has become political. When I say this, you will not object. It's political, it's political. I'm always saying that the judgment under yesterday's control is under the control of power today.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0400par0549	Tell me who was in control of it before.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0396par0550	Friends, whether it's a congregation or power, if it's under a power, there's no justice, there's no justice, it's not done. Come, let's make this judgment -- I insist -- independent. Look, we had a 29-point referendum in 2010, and one of the 2 articles was the Judges and Prosecutors -- then there was the High Council, one the Constitutional Court. So let's get these 2 articles out, including the opposition parties, the National Movement Party, and let's get them out before they all go to the referendum. You resisted, and you said: "These 2 articles that mattered are the two articles of which the judgment was willingly handed over to him. It's as simple as that. This error was seen in 2017, this time again, the same judges...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0401par0553	It's deep, Congressman, five minutes isn't enough. You pack it up, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0402par0556	I'll clean it up right away. My dear friends, this has been misunderstood, in 2017, the Council of Judges and Prosecutors and the Constitutional Court have been changed again, but this time it has been motivated to run. Now let's make a third amendment, and let's make this a public trial, people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0403par0561	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0404par0562	Mr. President, I was actually going to ask for a moment at my place, but thank you, Mr. Congressman, we've lost our sleep this late at night. But we'd like to add a little bit more fun to this escaped sleep. This is your justice that he has directed to our group from the stand? I would like to make a promise of taunting his statements.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0403par0563	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0404par0567	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been reforming this country for 20 years to build a constitutional order that meets the rule of law for a democratic judiciary. There's Mr. Turan here, the Istanbul MP, and he's a witness. Do you want approval from the judge in this country, or do you want corruption? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, if there's a condition, it'll be fixed. The judiciary will, in its own internal control, appeal, and even in our own way, control itself by passing through the Constitutional judiciary, correct if it's wrong, but it's unacceptable to refer the error of a member of the judiciary to the entire judiciary. Yes, we understand indigestion today. Why? Because yesterday's custody court has been opened to democratic control, and in our nation's service, it has become a judgment that decides for the Turkish nation, and we will continue our reforms whether you want to or not. Look, we say that in this country, we've brought in the exception of the European Court of Human Rights to control the judiciary in the way that the European Court requires.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0405par0572	He came to the people, to the people. If you support the troops, we'll...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0404par0573	The appeal continues to be democratized. You interfered with the European Court of Human Rights without waiting at the gates of the Constitutional Court, allowing our citizens to reach a fair trial.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0405par0574	We were defending the law, while you were supporting the people, the law. The lawyer of the people!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0404par0575	Our reforms will continue, but as you have lost custody of yesterday, as this country becomes democratic, you will lose all custody. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0406par0578	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0407par0579	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0406par0580	Mr. Group Vice President, you've lost custody of our group, and you'll lose custody after this. He has accused our group of guardianship; it's a very heavy taunt.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0407par0581	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0406par0584	Mr. President, I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. The Turkish judiciary was, of course, not a white spoon before the AK PARTI. No doubt, there were all sorts of problems in high judicial bodies, first-degree courts. There's one thing I've always said, just because there's a courthouse somewhere doesn't mean there's justice there. There used to be courts, such modest buildings, with padlocks on their doors. There was more justice there than there is now. Now you have palaces of justice, but there is no justice in it. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] I'll tell you one thing: would you have to dismiss 3,500 judges and prosecutors if you hadn't made the trial so vile, as Mr. Antalya Congressman just pointed out? I'm not saying why did you throw it, but you should have thought of it when you filled the Supreme Court and handed over the keys of the Supreme Court to the higher courts, as Mr. Rafet had just stated. For one thing, Mr. Cahit, if you bring a package of 390 articles, not 39 articles, when the Constitution is standing there, people will laugh at you. Yes, I admit, there have always been attempts in the Supreme Court in private -- most of us as politicians came from rural politics. The citizen came to you, and you called someone, and a fellow citizen has a request, my friend, this is the victim. This decision has to be broken. It has to be approved. It has always been mediated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, since I never spoke today, I had no intention of speaking.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0408par0591	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0406par0592	In the past, do you want to break it, or do you want to break it? But do you know what it's called as soon as you bring your judgment to judgment, Mr. Cahit? Well, sir, should we give it under five years or on top? It's shameful, it's shameful, it's sinful. (HPP) I am truly sorry on behalf of the political institution today for a politician who advocates the state of the judiciary in this House. I'll leave it to the General Assembly's discretion. Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0408par0595	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0409par0598	Mr. President, of course, when it's called independent judgment, you know, you blow up a balloon, you let its mouth go free, it flies around, it flies away, of course, not if you want that kind of judgment. In the eyes of the European Council of Human Rights and European Council on the legal system, we show you numerous examples from Denmark to Italy.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0410par0599	We're number one in breach.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0409par0600	The independent judiciary is the ruling and democratic control of the Turkish nation. What do you mean, democratic control? It's a judgment that is also under the control of Parliament and that the people's choices are somehow involved in their choice.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0411par0601	Not under Parliament's control, but under one man's control.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0409par0602	There is this system in Italy, Denmark, Germany. If he decides as you want him to, he is not democratic; if he gives it our way, he is democratic. In Latin, he means that we are equal among the equal.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0412par0607	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 34 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of the Law Proposal be removed from its bidding text. Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Alpay Antmen Rafet Zeybek Mehmet Ali Çelebi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0413par0617	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0412par0618	İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Çelebi wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0414par0621	I salute the High Council. That's right, you've been reforming for 20 years!) Secret witnesses convicted of manslaughter, PKK witnesses, fabricated digital evidence, conspiracies, all of which will be the work of your era, and you'll come today and say, "We're doing reform." When this man is an officer, he will be appointed director of a 24-year-old terrorist organization, and he will be charged with using terrorist numbers on his cell phone, which you manage, while the PKK members will be respected witnesses in your time, the Chief of Staff will be terrorist defendants, and you will now reform. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] As the armoured Mercedes falls to Zechariah, the prosecutor's attorney, the honorable Turkish officers will be shot down with armored prison vehicles, and you will now come and reform. You will create a case from nothing, it will take 12 years to get an acquittal, Ali Tatar will commit suicide in front of his daughter and his wife, Türkan Saylan, Kuddusi Okkır, Murat Özenalp, Explorer Kozinoğlu, Berk Erden, Abdulker Kırca, Cem Çakmak, Soner Polet and dozens of them will now come and reform because of you. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] In the sledgehammer scheme, the soldiers will be in prison for four years while the Supreme Court judge Ekrem Ertugrul, who approves the decisions, will receive three years and nine months for aiding the organisation, and you will come and reform here. Captain Murat Eren, the black pilot, will remain in prison for four years with an anonymous tip letter, he will be out of his job, selling lemons for his family, still, he will wait 13 years for justice, wait for acquittal, and now you will reform. When Fettah Tamince Bank deposits 162,000 liras to Asia, there will be no evidence to become a protege, no evidence to be a protege, no ordinary citizen will go to prison when he deposits $3, and you will now reform. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] History teacher Gökhan Openkollu will stay in custody for thirteen days and die of torture at the police station, want to bury him in the graveyard of traitors, he won't come to his funeral, then he will be found innocent, and the Ministry of National Education will extradite him after he dies; now you will reform. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] After July 15th, the executive decrees will not include the class officer, the petty officer, they will be cut off, military students will not be given a chance to seek rights, they will not be branded and employed like shady people, and you will now reform here. Eren Erdem will be sentenced to four years in prison, a citizen who is both a defendant and a confidential witness in the same case will be sentenced to six years without arrest, and you will now come and reform here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the night of July 15th, the man had an active reaction to the attack. He will have a report and witnesses, but he will receive aggravated life; the soldiers who have been expelled with the people, who have read the Instrumental Anthem with the people will receive aggravated life; they are digging up terror; go to the soldiers who have been called out of prison will be given life; you will be given life life sentences to the State Guard; those who have been called upon will not have a member of the organization; the man will receive life life imprisonment; he will not have a court order; the terrorist attack, and those who have not been harmed, and those who have not been subjected to any action will be released to life; you will not be able to notice them, and you will not be able to release them. We were all born to justice and righteousness. No heart that feels, no mind that thinks, no conscience that hears can bear this murdered view of justice. Therefore, not evil, but justice; not misery, justice; justice, not disgrace; justice, just justice; punishment for the guilty, justice for the innocent. We're not desperate, on the contrary, full of hope because we are hope. Because hope is the endless song of this land. Hope is that the smoke of the far future of this land is untouchable to resist all the oppressors. Therefore the resistance will continue, and the resistance will never be incomplete from this land. In this sense, I salute Mehmetçik, saying, "The rest of the country is the rest of the country." I pay my respects to the great assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0415par0641	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 35 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 35 of the Law Proposal be removed from its bidding text. Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0416par0651	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0415par0652	No one wants to talk about the motion. Given the importance of the quality of experts in children's practices, the current material in practice is sufficient. With the change to be made, there will be problems with expertise. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the item to be removed from the proposal text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's one motion on the 36th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the first sentence of the Common Penal Code and the first sentence of the 17th Article (17), "However, it is possible to propose that access to the content of the violation should not be blocked or that access to the content of the Internet should not be prevented by preventing it from being violated or by preventing access to the content of the Internet. Hüseyin Örs Hasan Subaş Fahrettin Yoşış Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0417par0666	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0415par0667	Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş wants to talk about the motion. Here you go. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0418par0671	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. My speech is so late that my beard has grown, and I apologize to all of you. On behalf of my party, I have been promised to address the 36th amendment of the first package of judicial reform. However, I would like to say a few words about the 2nd and 5th items that were previously accepted. In Article 2 of the proposal, it is wrong in two ways: it is fundamentally wrong because lawyers need to travel abroad by profession. It might be reasonable if a tourist or businessman were asked to do so. It's wrong because a legal right is handed down to the Home Secretary's approval. In Article 5 of the law school's inadequate education is blamed on the students. If the problem is insufficient education, that's where you have to look for the solution. First of all, you're going to get more qualified students in law schools, plus, you're not going to let under-educated faculty get students, you're going to rehabilitate those schools. By punishing students, you will not attempt an unjust practice, such as mending the faculty; if you do, this unfair clause will be changed in the future. You have to think about the problems that can arise in applying the standard of the exam, whether it is appropriate for the entrance examinations to be conducted, whether the legal awareness and skill to be measured by the test exam, but most importantly, this application will be a bad example. Will you do the same in other professions? For example, are you going to suspend doctors who get low marks on the TUS exam? In judicial reform, you're in trouble by making regulations against the principles of law and justice. To go back to the 36th article, this article envisions blocking the content of the page, which is believed to be a crime. So far, so good. The last sentence of matter enacts the closing of the entire site in exceptions. This shows that Turkey will continue its leadership among countries in the world that ban the Internet. Wikipedia, for example, has been banned for years, and you've blocked the entire site on grounds of two English contents. The articles that caused the obstacle were full of big mistakes, Turkey showed terrorism co-operation, but the answer to such things is not to sweep them under the carpet in our country. The rest of the world still has access to these articles. With this kind of precaution, you put your head in the sand and ignore the boredom. There is also the matter of the closure of Twitter earlier. Of course, in the great tragedies, it may be necessary to block access for a short period of time in the context of national security in terrorist attacks, but when you spread it around for a long time, you're away from democracy, you're turning it into censorship. Although this package you have presented is referred to as judicial reform, frankly, I don't see much of the part. To reform, you must first free the judiciary from politics. Unfortunately, justice in Turkey has suffered major political injuries in recent years. The public has the impression that the government has entered into the order of politics. But those who think so are not wrong. For example, when Adnan Oktar was arrested, he said: "My joy is that we supported Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the AK PARTY in the elections: We are loyal people to his country, his nation. You remember what US President Trump said about the priest: "Let it go." I said, "They let it go." The President of the United States says that the Turkish judiciary is controlled by power. I said let him go. It's clear that the person in charge of the case is not a member of the judiciary. In recent years, the judiciary has been so in charge of politics that you will all remember that Mr. Erdogan threatened his opponents not with the chest, but with the chair of the accused. I won't repeat what you said to Mr. President and Mr. Kilicdaroglu during the election process here today. Justice is important. If you think of the state as a bridge, each stone that forms this bridge is a different quality of the state.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0419par0681	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0418par0682	If you want the bridge to be good, his economy must be strong, his safety and his education and his morality. Justice is the key to the bridge. Justice is the only element that keeps all these qualities on a bridge. If you pull the lockstone, if it breaks down, there will be no bridge, and the key stone of Turkey is sadly damaged. This historic bridge needs serious and real restoration. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0419par0685	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 37 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that amendments made in Article 5395 of Child Protection Act 39 of Article 39 of Article 39 of Article 39 of the Law shall be removed from the proposal text. Zeynel Emre Süleyman Bul Turan Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0420par0695	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0419par0696	Anyone want to talk about the motion? No.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0421par0697	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2019-10-16sit07spe0419par0698	I'm reading the reason: The amendment will block the process of specialising the competent courts in the trial on children. Therefore, it would be appropriate to remove the change from the proposal text. I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. I submit the whole proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the offer has been accepted and legalized. According to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (October 22nd 2019) to discuss law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
