tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan, who asked for a comment on the environmental impacts of Canal İstanbul. Here you are, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, we're going to talk about a project that's been on the agenda from time to time for the past few years, a project that concerns the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea. Mr. Prime Minister unveiled this project, called "Kanal İstanbul" and was once called "The Crazy Project" as one of the crazy projects. Regarding this project, Mr. Ali Babacan says: "Is it possible, or is it not, as ministers in the first place? " So the project is all afaki, the image project, it's not based on any scientific work; there's animation, there's no science. I read the question motion here in front of everyone that we haven't been able to answer recently, and we still haven't been able to answer that question. But, Prime Minister, he passed on this scientific science project from the High Planning Board. Mr. Babacan says: "Any environmental assessment and preparation must be done very carefully. " So, apparently, the job will come from behind. During the preparation of the Canal Istanbul Project, it has not been asked the opinion of valuable marine scientists who have worked on our seas for years. Members of parliament, according to the calculations and models of our scientists, the environmental disasters expected by this project will be both in Marmara and in the Black Sea. In the context of this talk, I consider the impact of our lonely seas - the subject of land and other environmental impacts and the subject of construction - a separate topic of discussion. The Bosphorus is a water route that leads the lower saltwaters of the Black Sea to Marsha, and even through the Canakkale Strait to Aegean. The reason is that the average water level of the Black Sea, a densely fresh reservoir, is higher than the Mediterranean. Black Sea water flows over the Bosphorus, and the saltwaters of the Mediterranean, which flow in the opposite direction, balance the salt balance of the Black Sea. This is an unprecedented mechanism of natural fluids. Had it not been for the natural submersible system of the Bosphorus, the Sea of Marmara would have become an open sewer worse than it is today. This project cannot be compared to the Suez Canal and Panama Canal. To make that comparison means to avoid science. There will be no turning back on this crazy channel that will be opened without proper examinations. The impact of the canal on the environment must be examined with the thought of future generations. But the Planning Board has decided, it's unclear what it's for. The taps that fill the Black Sea are the waters of rain and river. The rivers of Danube, Dnieper, Dinyester and Don are at the top of them. If you open an artificial channel to the Black Sea without increasing the amount of water entering this pool, the Black Sea will drain more water. In time, the lower saltiness of the Black Sea will rise, the lower layer of hydrogen sulfide will rise, and most importantly, it will lead to the thinning of the oxygeny upper layer where fish live, where they multiply, and the extinction of living resources. In fact, in time, this channel could affect the projected Sinop nuclear power plant. On the other hand, another fact is that the Black Sea is not ours alone. Russia benefits from Montrö. However, when a new channel opens, there will be uncertainty, who will be in charge of this channel? Is this project an anti-Montrö Treaty strategy, a long-term U.S. invention for the enticing of gas hydrate and oil potential in the first place in the Black Sea? With this channel, the additional organic cargo will not lift the lower water after 25 metres of sea, and the oxygen that is already critical will be completely exhausted. Congressmans, a scientist, this channel causes air pollution and health problems. The lakes of Pashkos, Tüçükçekmece, and Büçükçekmece dry, harming the water products in the Sea of Marmara. At least 42 square kilometers of green space is destroyed by a 1 million cubic metres of digging to open the canal. If residential areas are built around the canal, shipwrecks, explosions, and dangers will be carried from the throat to the canal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we have no scientific findings or data to determine that many other scientific findings such as this are not true, wrong or right. Therefore, this matter must be taken seriously and with our scientists to examine the matter in detail. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about family problems in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to family problems in Turkey. On this occasion, I salute you all. Among the challenges of living conditions, the weight of economic and political problems is a neglected institution, which is family. The change in technological, social, and cultural areas has made family and role controversial. Society rises or falls over families. There is no other mechanism to sustain a corrupt and corrupt society. Society scientists thus describe the family as the building blocks of society, the original ore. The family plays a major role in creating, sustaining, and protecting the social system. Generations take all their values and discipline from their family, the furnace where the individual's personality is fermented. What has happened recently shows that the family is at great risk and threatened. The increase in violence to women, the record of divorces, the number of children left on the streets are more closely related to the family institution than anything else. There's a big connection between lawsuits, murders, suicides, and the concussion of the family agency. Abandoned children, desperate parents, women's shelters and nursing homes actually sum up everything. There is also an increase in number of child laborers and crime committed at a child's age. All of this data is evidence that the Turkish family structure actually experienced a massive concussion. Dear lawmakers, today the age has stopped training children from being the work of parents and schools. Children were taken from their parents through Internet, Facebook, and television shows. You have to see it and take the necessary precautions. Television programmes in Turkey work like nannies, matchmakers and marriage agencies. Parents have been transformed into passive figures, which are unconditionally internalizing the values presented by the media. Television programs have become virtually married institutions. Levels, values, principles, measurements are crushed under the feet. The media is signing off on the productions that will kill the namahrami and then the family. The family, an institution of spiritual and moral motivation, has become increasingly the institution of materialistic and hedonist values. People don't get married anymore, they get back together; lovers don't become a family, they start a company in front of the marriage officer and the screens. The prenup is now back to the corporate principal agreements. Dear lawmakers, technological developments, virtualization and digitalization seriously threaten the family institution. As a natural result of urban life, the family is torn apart during the day by the fact that the mother goes to work, the father goes to work, the child goes to kindergarten. In the evening, the mother's soap operas, the father's sports matches, and the child's Internet are captured. Family members are often lost between Facebook, the Internet, cell phone, the series, and the caltifications. Technologies have become devices that rip family members apart. Humans are used by the devices they invent to use. In addition to all of this, the use of mass communication means without purpose also poses major problems in the family. Marriage programs on TV have become almost like a program to destroy family perception. Programs built on material, economic, hedonist values, which have no moral, moral, and human aspects, threaten the institution of marriage. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy must make arrangements and quickly take initiative to transform these programmes into a strengthening structure, not to destroy the family institution. The family must be stopped from being a commodity consumed by mass communication tools. Risks for the family can be solved by concentrating on the process rather than the facts. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy must not be satisfied with what they are doing, but must act immediately with multi-routine programs and projects and implement them immediately. Without protection, people, nation, state, state, country cannot be protected without protection. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük (Seçek) who asked for a comment on World Ethics Day. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on World Ethics Day. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers are essential to an ethical, fair and democratic social life, a clean and transparent administration in the state and politics. There is no mention of democratic governance, rule of law, accountability, and there is no mention of a healthy administration where immoral activities can be ruled by corruption, where they begin to become institutionalized by individual dimensions. Because in a country where there is unethical behavior, the feeling of trust in the public, the political institution, the state and justice can be undermined, and political and governance systems can show weakness in the face of ethical values and principles. The efforts to eliminate this must be initiated from the point of prevention of unethicality because the damage done after corruption and corruption have occurred is not enough to be compensated for. I think it's imperative for a strong ethical culture to develop. In order to establish ethical culture, our country has signed the United Nations Anti-Corruption Convention. Our signatures are included in the agreements on the European Union directives. Although we do not have a political ethical law, there are laws in various laws that apply to the ethics of the public. As you know, there is an Ethics Board Act and a regulation. It is a regulation that determines the moral principles of public servants. According to this, public servants cannot, and cannot, use their duties, titles, and powers to help themselves, relatives, or third parties. Public servants cannot be treated as relatives, spouses, friends and fellow citizens, political favours, or discrimination for any reason. Of course, these are the regulations, but there's a governor in this country who claims to take his own contractor wherever he goes. Don't get me wrong, it's not our claim. Statement of a member of the ruling party. You'll appreciate that if a member of the ruling party is writing a letter to the Ministry of Interior about this, there is a serious problem with the administration of that country. If there's a cover-up of corruption like the Lighthouse in a country, and there's an investigation into prosecutors investigating it, it's legal ethics in that country. If a member of a country's Parliament can swear to another MP without being insulted, then there's no respect for ethics, not even for ethics. From the media to the justice system, from the political institution to the bureaucracy, of course, it is possible to replicate such examples. We cannot afford to view any example as an isolated event. The first requirement for fighting corruption, corruption, and unethical behavior, even if it is unique, is to present the problem correctly and to develop effective solutions to solving this problem. Ethical behavior also corrupts the system and prevents the public administration mechanism from functioning fairly and effectively. In this regard, especially in public administration, it is essential for the health of the political and governance system to promote ethical awareness from the top to the bottom. Mr. President, there is no salvation in a country unless the righteous are as brave as the scoundrels. As you know, it belongs to Ismet Inönul, our 2nd President. All of us, not just the MPs, but the politicians, not just the media, but our entire community, who stands behind this promise, and who comes from corruption, wherever it comes from, whatever it comes from, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Little. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to go into the system and give our deputies a minute of my word. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0008par0058	Mr. President, it has been reported to the press that the National Palaces, Museumism and Publicity President, the historic Fighting Bull statue found in Kadıköy Sixways, has applied to the City of Kadıköy to move in with his wife at Beysbeyi Palace. The bull statue is one of the number-one symbols of Istanbul, although it is the most known symbol and meeting point of Kadiköy. Kadıköylıler is opposed to the removal of this statue, which is identified with the districts of Kadıköyler. The subject is required to be evaluated as part of the historical meaning, significance, and symbolic identity of the statue. In addition, in Kadıköy, the historic AvM project for the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the AVM project was partially cancelled, but a new plan for shrinking the AVM area has been drafted. In part, the Kadiköyans demand that the cancellations are not enough, that the mall be completely abandoned and protected as a green area. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0010par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. The process of the metal industry has come to a difficult point for Turkey. The area of the metal industry in the province of Kopeeli is also one-third of the area where about 120,000 workers work, unfortunately, it has reached the point of obstruction due to the unilateral and biased behavior of MESS. RICO AND UNIONAL METAL-HIS STOPPED CONTERVIEWS. I believe that government officials, especially the Ministry of Labor, should take part in the capture of reconciliation between these two institutions, given the interest of 500,000 families and the fact that there will be great trouble on the streets tomorrow, if you think Turkey will follow the process. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0011par0068	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Ercoshkun...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0012par0071	Mr. President, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. As you know, one of the rarest, most private, most peaceful counties of our Bolu, a corner from heaven, is our Göynuk district. In addition to its natural beauty, historical beauty, no doubt, the most important value of our Gönuk is Akshemseddin. He is one of the spiritual leaders of his time, Akşemseddin, the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet. He is also the first scientist in the medical world to discover the disease. Every year on the last week of May... so this year, on May 25th, 26th, the Akshemseddin Memorial Program will be organized in our Göynuk. I hereby invite all our friends to our Bolu, to our village, and to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0011par0073	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0013par0076	It's been 16 years since February 28th postmodern coup. With the indictment released the other day, the prosecution demanded a aggravated life sentence against 111 people. Many of Turkey's problems today have coups behind them. The PKK made its two biggest breakthroughs after September 12th and February 28th coups. The PKK won new positions while the coupists dealt with the nation. February 28th, under the name of anti-Irtica, he actually worked for the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Every blow has its own reason. February 28th, the danger of a possible invasion has been consolidated to itself. A heathen nation was rolled up for a spiritual army. The powerful name of that period is not the Prophet's furnace of the Turkish Armed Forces. What Bostancıoğlu said about the headscarf, it is possible that some heads will be blown off. Every blow is a violation of the nation's integrity, dignity, honor, and must be accounted for. February 28th has haunted the meaning of this nation's soul. Even if he's late, this case is a public case. It will take a thousand years. Those who say, "It will take a thousand years to answer." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0014par0079	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0015par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2012, there was a massive flood in the district of Artvin, Arhavi, Hopa, and Yazka, in the district of Artvin. As a result of this flood disaster, material losses occurred, as a result of a flood investigations in the region, the government earmarked a budget for disaster relief and asked for the compensation of losses caused by financial aid to those involved in the disaster. Therefore, when we asked the concerned minister, a sum of $3,800,000 was sent to repair the damage. There are concerns that this aid was not spent in the flood. There are such expectations in public. I'm afraid the question we asked earlier has been ignored by the Minister. From here, I'd like to say once again from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Is $3,800,000 worth of money sent to the governor's office due to this flood? What departments is the governor's office paying for it? He wishes that the relevant ministry would control it and that the money sent would be used to repair the losses of our citizens who were damaged in the flood.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0014par0085	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0016par0088	Mr. President, there are 431 serious patients arrested and convicted in prison in Turkey. Only one of them, Taylan Chintai, was brought from Adana to Ankara Hospital two days ago and went through severe surgery to remove cancer cells from his body. Later, he was taken to Sincan Prison. After a severe surgery, he was asked to be strip-searched. After being beaten after Taylan refused to search naked after surgery, he was sentenced to three days in solitary confinement for opposition to the gendarmes and regulations. Now, while we are demanding that the conditions of the heavy patients be resolved, that they be granted freedom before they die, this treatment to Taylan is showing the government's report card on human rights. I present this to the attention of the High Council and our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0018par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. The date of May 25th is celebrated as Ethics Day in the world. Ethics states that people, organizations, should act in a way in society, in a way that is concrete and evidenceable. Ethic rules derived from the word "trument" are vital to society's life. Ethical practices in Turkish history are seen in the Ahilik organization during Seljuk. Harmony is a multi-directional socioeconomic Turkish institution. Traders and artists who belong to the Ahi organization had a set of ethics and business rules to abide by. In case it doesn't fit, severe punishments have also been imposed. In many professions today, ethics are violated. This is among the professions, thus causing serious problems in society. Ethics, moral principles are vital, and our people, politicians, government officials, must be absolutely compliant. The presence of ethical culture in society can also prevent many non-social events, including corruption. I'd like to thank you in a transparent, open society and in the spirit of governance.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0019par0099	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0020par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm just saying, good luck. We understand that the government has found a permanent solution to unemployment. It is said that 10,000 guards will be taken to suppress the conflict at universities, to secure the education. In this way, the government will have found a solution to unemployment, as well as the need to raise youth in national culture with a stick and a backward curriculum. Since there will always be problems with growing universities, growing numbers, and countries where youth rises, that number will not be limited to 10,000, it will always be needed. However, when that happens, universities will be the battlefield of war and conflict of the gas-squeezing protection army, who will cease to be a field of science and swing sticks for the state. Peace with the boss and capital class will not prevent the inevitable end of the police state, which the government has increased in order to protect its power during the war with workers and young people. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0021par0106	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0022par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the immigrants who live in the Karsavuran position of Yenice district of Tarsus have very important problems. These people migrated here 11 years ago, and they've been put here, and they haven't been back home in 11 years. The area where they are now will also be built into an airport. The most urgent needs of our citizens are containers. They demand that only 70 containers be routed here, which have been completed in the van. Our municipality of Yenice offers a place for these people and determines where they will live. These people expect containers from our government. Even though Mersin had already made a promise and even made several containers, they did not reach these people. It's also humanly important to resolve this issue. My respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0023par0112	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0024par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, yesterday on the websites, before the attack on Reyhanlı, there was a document sent to the government by the Gendarme Intelligence Agency. This document was sent to the websites by the Redhack. As of April 23rd, this document resulted in a very serious death, as the Al Qaeda organization's bombshells were introduced into Turkey and there was intelligence information in Turkey that would be carried out, that the intelligence information would not be evaluated and that all intelligence agencies could not be judged within themselves and that they could not be considered together. I want to hear the assessment of the situation and what the government's front said about this attack by El Nusra and the Al Qaeda front yesterday. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0025par0118	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0026par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. The documents presented to the media and the Internet as of yesterday are extremely thoughty and certainly the government will first enlighten the entire Turkish nation, including the fact that 52 people have died on the Syrian border and on May 11th in Reyhanlı district of Hatay province, and unfortunately, most of our citizens have also been injured. In this particular, I invite the Foreign Minister to correct an answer to a question asked him on the heat of the incident. Instead of dealing with the content of this document, a statement to deflect the target does not suit a minister of this country. I demand that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be briefed on this matter and that it be made public by the government. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0027par0124	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0028par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Eskişehir Ataturk Stadium is being removed, and protocols have been signed to build a major shopping centre by handing it over to Tokyo. However, the entire Eskişehir responds to the location of the stadium as well as to the location of the new stadium in a place no one knows about in the Sazova region. I wanted this to be known by Congress and the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0029par0130	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0030par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. A 7 - year - old boy named Aaron Mosmos lost both his feet to the reaper in an accident. After the incident, his parents took him to Teacuma State Hospital. They transferred him to Zonguldak State Hospital after the initial intervention. The Hacettepe, which has been contacted for erecting limbs, immediately demanded that the first five or six hours be of great importance, immediately be transported by ambulance or helicopter by ambulance in accordance with the patient's and limbs. The incident took place at 5:30 p.m., and an airplane was not provided with ambulances or helicopters until 12:30 p.m. The dream, which had been photographed in front of him, had been made a billboard, became a reality. Their ambulance was a dream for our child, a lie, and it was decided to be shipped by land at half the night. Ten hours after the incident, the patient's legs were stitched up, but one of them is not alive, and the other one's doctor is giving him a 1% chance. I would like to present to the attention of the High Assembly the 112 weaknesses of that day, and invite the Minister of Health to investigate the matter and inform the House.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0031par0136	Thank you, Mr. Special. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0032par0139	Mr. President, we've just learned that the Prime Minister is going to visit the relatives of our citizens who died in the attack on Reyhanlı and Reyhanlı. Of course, it's the most normal thing for a Prime Minister to follow sad events in every corner of his country and get there before everyone else, but why hasn't the Prime Minister ever visited or gone to Uludere, the relatives of 34 of our citizens who were killed a year and a half ago? Perhaps it is our right to ask the Prime Minister if he intends to go to Uludere.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0031par0140	Thank you, Mr. Sky. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm having it read. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers' decision dated April 30, 2013, and President of the Yemen-Turkey Inter-National Friendship Group, Mr Fuad Mohamed Abdul Karim, was eligible to visit our country. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the need to open Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105 of our Constitution 98th, Turkish Parliamentary Council of Turkey, in order to determine the potential for industrial and industrialisation of the province and to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems that have been taken. 29/2/2012 [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] 8) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] 12) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Erzurum]] [[Slap]] [[Yozgat]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mersin]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kayseri]] Adana is an important province for Turkey's economy because it is one of the first industrialised regions of the Republic of Turkey, creating a radical industrialisation tradition and capital buildup. In the first bold steps towards industrialisation and the rise of the economies of agriculture taken from Ottomans to the republic, there is a trail of Adana. Turkey has created capital savings needed for the growth of its economy and has led to its transformation into investments across the country. In the early 1980s of the Republic, Adana, the apple of the country's economy, took steps from agriculture to industry, tourism to trade in all areas, economic changes in the 1980s, the Iraq War, and economic crises did not reduce Adana's industry and economy across the country as much as today. As of the late 1990s, the development of the organised industrial zone is not in the state that Adana deserves, with quality growth in production and increased sectoral diversity. In parallel with Turkey's rapid development in recent years, Adana, who has failed to achieve new industrial breakthroughs, has lost its industry potential, airport, highway, new highway projects, Turkey's largest organised industrial region, small industrial sites, the University of Çukurova, one by one. Although the investment climate is very available, it is found in the source of raw materials for other investments in agriculture and food products, it has a huge decline instead of accelerating in production. According to TÜİK data, Adana, whose share of public investments in 2011 was not even in the first 13 percent, compared to the population, is only in the middle. Adana, where population density has risen to 83 per cent in the centre of the city, retains its place at the end of the year after Şırnak on unemployment. When we looked at TÜİK data again, business employment in the industry continued at large rates, while the number of businesses closed has continued with increasing values compared to 2009-2010. When we look at the data, we see that there is a relative reduction rather than a balanced growth of the population. For reasons revealed above, parliamentary research is required to be launched in order to determine the industrial and industrial potential of the province of Adana and its problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Press workers work under difficult conditions and lack of autonomy in order for public information, news of events, and all manner of attitudes. In order to establish this difficult and problematic working framework and to restore all social security and humane living conditions for the press workers, I would like to ask that the Constitution be opened under Parliamentary investigation under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The most fundamental feature of constitutional democracy is the separation of powers. These forces of legislation, execution and judgment have recently created a fourth power, especially through media and media. Given recent technical developments, the media is now studied by scientific environments as the fourth man in the separation of forces. The power of technology and labour, created by the knowledge of society, is very important. Almost 80 per cent of the population in Turkey receive information through visual and auditory media. Given these facts, media workers working in the media sector are working hard and are at risk of living in the process of working from the source of information or information to the public service of the news. The death of media workers who lost their lives in the Van earthquake, killing the public, perhaps showing the latest level of risk of being a press worker. Press workers Sebahattin Yilmaz and Cem Amir Van, who lost their lives in the second 5.6-sized Van earthquake on November 9, 2011, were doing their jobs to inform and create public sensitivity. The social security rights, occupational rights and social status of press workers who work through difficult processes that lead to the loss of their lives are operating in the course of the process. The lack of tiredness is at the top of the issues that pose the most problems for the press workers. The intense existence of unregistered employment in the media sector is also important as an item that enhances exploitation, as well as the flexibility of the labour market in the sector. In general, the public authority, which is trying to sever relations with the union organisation of workers, poses the biggest obstacle to the freedom of the press workers of union organisation. The irregularities of social rights and regulations against media workers are also an indicator of the exploitation of sector employees. The work of workers working in both national and local media, without concerns about social security and other material resources, will produce more positive results both in freedom of the press and in meeting professional requirements. From all of this, a parliamentary research commission must be established in the TBMM to determine the problems of press workers and to determine the will to resolve these problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Recently, media reports have reported that a forgery of a cancer drug named Altuzan has also been used in Turkey and has even gone to Middle Eastern countries from here. We propose and propose the opening of parliamentary research in accordance with Article 104 and 105 of the TBM Council's Articles 104 and 105, in order to investigate these allegations and to provide a solution. With all due respect. [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Edirne]] [[Sinop]] [[Antalya]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 9) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 14) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 16) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] 21) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 24) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 29) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] The U.S. Food and Medicine Agency (FDA) has announced that in some states in the United States, a forgery of a cancer drug called Avastin (Bevacizumab) has been detected. The FDA has warned users and the company, the manufacturer of the drug, to "be careful." The manufacturer of the drug, Roche, announced that the drug that sells $6 billion a year has been distributed all over the United States, but has no idea how many bottles have been sold and is being investigated. In Turkey, the drug containing the same factor is called Altuzan. Recently, we have reportedly reported that the fake drug was used in Turkey, and that it even traveled from here to the Middle East countries. It is also alleged that the Turkish police also obtained a fake drug called Altuzan and sought information on this drug by calling Roche. The Ministry of Health has announced that the Inspection Board has launched a review of these drugs, which have been identified by the Internet, under emphasis that there could be no fraud in the Drug Tracking System. Because of the price disputes between paying institutions and pharmacies in our country, such drugs have not been found on the market from time to time. The drugs of cancer patients who are in a difficult situation have been monitored by the press, which they're looking for illegally. In this case, it is likely that some patients may have continued to treat cancer with non-drug drugs. Despite the firm control of the FDA, many centers in the United States have been found to be treated with false drugs. In our country, it's unacceptable to ignore allegations that only the Drug Pursuit system has been used as a fake cancer drug. Because the use of fake cancer medicine can produce irreparable consequences. It is necessary to investigate the allegations and find out where the fake drug entered our country, was produced in Turkey, who took the patients and how many doses and how many solutions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion was published today and distributed to the members. I'm having the motion read now. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although it has no legal basis left in the privatisation process, the bid is far below its value in the final tender, which says the tender price remains low and that if it is approved in this manner, the account will be asked to account for itself, but violates those words and approves the tender process of the CENTGAZ AŞ, which has caused the public and the public to suffer a great deal of damage to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. And your index is 106. We demand and demand that the geneor be opened in accordance with the matter. Devent Gök Uður Baydutan Doğan Şaş Arif Bulut Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Kazim Kurt Refik Eryılmaz Mahmut Tanal Engin Altay Hülya Güven Mustafa Moroğlu Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Durdu Özbolat Tolga Çandar Namik Havutça Ali Demirçalı Erdal Aksunger Ahmet Toptaş Izzet Cetin Turgay Develi Kamer Young Gürkut Acar Musa Pine Haydar Akar Muharrem Light Mighty Skymen Reminder Osman Taney Kuruturk Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Müslim Sarı Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İlhan Demiröz Faik Tunay Aykan Erdemir Fatma Nur Serter Bornt Kuşoğlu Sakine Öz Celal Dinçer Bornt Tezcan Oğuz Oyan Hasan Akgöl Omar Suha Aldan Aytun Çiray Ümit Özşüm Sinan Aydın Aygün İlhan Cihaner Veli Ağbaba Haluk Ahmet Silver Aykut Erdoğdu Süleyman Çelebi Ramadan Kerim Özkan Melda Onur Birgül Ayman Güler Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Ali Özgündüz Hasan Ören Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Serindağ Recep Gürkan Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Mehmet Şeker Hurşit Sun Mevlüt Dudu Ayşe Nedret Akova Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu Candar Yüyüker Hüseyin Aygün Ensar Öğün Sadef Little Malik Ecder Özdemir Mehmet Ali Sesam Following Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's failure to pay its debts to BOTAŞ and public institutions, its failure to make the subway lines in Ankara; the Law on Natural Gas Market No. 4646 is 25,05,2007 and 5669. In addition to the clause (e) the privatisation of 80% of natural gas and the financing of EGO General Directorate's debts to BOTAS and Treasury and Ankara Metro was originally intended for the rescue of Melih Gökçek. The capital gas distribution, founded for this purpose, has been auctioned three times; privatisation has failed due to the fact that the highest bid for three billion US dollars is $1 billion,610 million, and the costs are not paid. As a result, the protocol carried out on 25,10,2010 by the Council of Ministers' decision and on 25,4,2011 transferred subway construction to the Ministry of Transport. In this context, the capital gas distribution of the capital, Inc, has no more privatisation grounds. At this rate, 20 per cent of the tariff after the privatisation of the law at 04.07.2012 (the price of unit service and amortism for $0.0555 US dollars/m3, the implementation of the transport fee for $0.0077 US dollars/m3) was reduced to 0.0077 US dollars and 8 years, and the way for privatisation of the remaining 20 per cent of the D.C. Gas Distribution AS has been opened. Within the process, natural gas lines have been renewed, and the number of subscribers has reached 1,411.000. This is the fourth time in the history of 25,01,2013. The bid was bid at most $1 billion, 162 million. The prime minister said in a live television broadcast, "We have to think about the profitability in our nation's favor. We're stuck, I need the money right now, so what do we do? That's not true. Turkey is a country that appreciates its property. For example, we caught $1.5 billion in Capital Gas. The new one's coming in at 1,100. Now one. If 5 is given at 1.100 where you catch it, won't the Conqueror Altay ask you to answer for it, 1. He's got five, he's got five, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one. The prime minister made this statement because the tender was undervalued by the Privatisation Supreme Council, pre-trialized presidential GAZ. However, the Prime Minister approved the presidential tender for the Privatisation Supreme Council at 14.03.2013. The loss of the public will be enormous when the market value is much higher, the sale of the PresidentGAZ at such a low price. Unlike the Prime Minister's own words, Turkey's 2. It is clear that he must share and account with the public what power and negotiations he has approved the tender, the great gas distributor, President GAZ. In addition to the privatisation of the capital gas distribution ASC and the lack of a very important source of revenue from Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, public control at the price of gas will be completely eliminated, consumers will be victimised by the price policy due to the company's monopoly power. For reasons above, the Constitution of the Prime Minister is 98, 99. And your index is 106. It is appropriate to open a gene question in accordance with its substances. It has been presented to your knowledge. The advisory council proposal, which includes the day of the meeting on whether or not it will be taken into consideration, will later be submitted to your approval. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0033par0402	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0031par0403	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0033par0406	Now, the Justice and Development Party group proposal includes a clause concerning the meeting of Proposition 463, which came to the General Assembly through the Plan and Budget Commission today. While Turkey proposes to organise the agenda of the Grand National Assembly, it has the content to propose priority for Proposition 463. As of the number of rows 463, he arrived in my room at 10 p.m. this morning, not at 11:00 p.m. to the MPs' rooms. We're going to discuss such a comprehensive proposal, and lawmakers don't know about it, the opportunity for lawmakers to prepare, the time for preparation has not been given to them. The 52nd article of our Civil Code decides that these proposals and proposals will not be available in the General Assembly for 48 hours after they have passed the commission. The Counsellor's Council can, of course, decide otherwise, but in such an important bill, let's meet in less than eight hours. When we make his proposal, there is not even a reasonable time to prepare for lawmakers. That, for one thing, is definitely wrong. Secondly, the clause of the Proposal on the Law on Publicisation is clearly against the Constitution. The 138th article of the Constitution shall decide that the court's decisions will bind the administration with legislation, executive and judicial bodies, and that everyone, these authorities, these institutions, will act accordingly. On the other hand, it nullifies a Constitutional Court decision by going around the back. So that clause is in violation of the Constitution. There is no way to discuss the proposal, Mr. President, because of the violation of the constitution. I also consider it a violation of the Civil Code that the lawmakers were not given the necessary time.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0034par0410	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0035par0411	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0034par0413	According to the first joke of Article 52 of the Civil Code, the draft and proposals will not be discussed within 48 hours, as Mr. Hamzacebi put it, but the next joke states that it can be asked from the General Assembly on the basis of prioritizing one of the legislation and proposals on the agenda and other commissions. In that case, the General Assembly will vote by sign. I mean, it's in the discretion of the General Assembly, and if the General Assembly decides this way, Mr. President -- this has been done several times before -- without waiting 48 hours, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit01spe0035par0414	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, I'm gonna take a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0034par0002	Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0035par0003	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0034par0005	In the previous discussion, I'd like to make it clear that Mr. Hamzacebi has expressed the issue of violation of the Constitution, which Mr. Hamzacebi has expressed regarding the 22nd Article. This is a substance that is unconstitutionally assigned to public spaces in zoning plans and is designed to solve the problem that is actually causing the victimization of many of our citizens. So for the past 20 years, it has been intended for the purpose of solving the problem, which has been considered a hospital area, a national educational area, a public service, such as the school area, but has not been identified for this purpose, and has not been given the opportunity or the opportunity to assess it in any other way, and has uncovered the victimization of our citizen. So, if at this point it can't be understood that way from the text of matter, then we can make it clear, we can make it clear. So at this point, there is no violation of any Constitution, but from what I understand, there has been a number of perceptions that suggest it, Mr. President, that we will make the necessary arrangements for it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0036par0008	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0037par0010	Mr. President, let me make a statement, sir. Now, Article 22 of the proposal is redesigning the interim 6th article of Publicisation Law 2942. The interim 6th article has been added to the Law on Publicisation, 5996, and it brings an arrangement to address the problem of the citizens who were victims of unpromised possession during the past period between Article 6830 of 1956 and the new Civilisation Act of 1983. Later, this arrangement was expanded with Law 6111, including unofficiated hand-offs after 1983. The Constitutional Court cancelled the expansion of Law 6111, and the Constitutional Court gave the administration until August 2013. Until then, a new law must be passed. Of course, the law to be passed must meet the grounds for the Supreme Court's annulment. With his proposal on this subject, the proposal redefines the interim 6th substance, which previously regulates non-official handouts between 1956 and 1983, and expands it to include unconstitutional hand-offs after 1983. The zoning plan may require an arrangement to address the victims of the property's assets, which have not been nationalized, although are divided into public service by public service, but it is necessary not to prepare a legal basis to legitimize them while they provide the need for it, while other non-governmental hand-offs after 1983 are available. The matter must be reassessed in this sense and edited in such a way as to resolve these doubts.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0038par0013	Yes, that's understood.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0037par0014	From Mr. Canikli's statement, I understand that there will be an arrangement that could only be involved in unpromised handing over the zoning plan decisions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0038par0015	Yes, you do that when the time and the place is right.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0037par0016	They're going to make a motion for this understanding of matter, I understand. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0038par0018	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 23/5/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President It is not until 48 hours after the Law Proposal 463, which has been distributed under pressure, that the agenda be taken to the fourth order of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and that the order of other tasks should be considered according to this. Outside of the General Assembly's weekly working days, Friday, May 24, 2013, 15 p.m. The meeting at 00 and the talks on the agenda of the "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," Until the completion of the talks on Thursday (May 23, 2013) of Law Proposal No. 463 in the merger, Until Friday, May 24, 2013, when the talks were completed until the 358th Bill of the Law were merged, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedule is incomplete at 00 p.m., it will continue its work until the day's schedule is completed, The Law Proposal 463 was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. 463 SIRA SIRA SIRAL ACTION OF THE BLOOD AND BLOOD CONTINUES [[2/1524]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDES PART OF THE SCENE 1. Chapter 1 - Article 18 2. Chapter 19 - Article 36 In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0039par0045	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our party's group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, there is a fundamental change in our proposal regarding today's agenda, which is 463 rows in order that the Law Proposal on the Amendment of some Laws and Laws should be discussed today in order to be brought to the fourth place on the agenda. And if it doesn't end by 00, it goes on until it's over. Also, if today's agenda cannot be completed, tomorrow's Friday is 15 o'clock. It is recommended that it continue its work by meeting at 00. The law, when it comes to it, will grow, prosper, and the matter will become clearer, with the contributions of our precious groups. Serious provisions for 8-10 laws are being brought to meet the needs that really appear in society. I await the support of your proposal, and pay my respects to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0040par0050	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Against him, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0041par0054	Thank you, my dear President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I have taken a pledge against the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Really, in one week, the General Assembly is working twice to determine the work agenda. As I've always said, there are no boards in the world that can work three hours, four hours to determine their agenda. This isn't the right way. Dear friends, the proposal is a proposal demanding that Law 463 be brought to the agenda today and tomorrow. Dear lawmakers, we're going to discuss a bag of laws that make changes in important matters, changes in important laws. In this law -- I counted it out -- it changes 13 laws, 13 different areas, a bag of laws that make radical changes in different matters. We're used to the law, but it's a new way of bringing in the bag laws as the basic law. These two issues are conflicting, and to me, they are contrary to our Civil Code. According to the Civil Charter 91, the basic law is very clear, and I can read it from here, and it says: You can take the proposal and the bill as the basic law in case it contains general principles that will systematically or comprehensively change a branch of law. I repeat: You can discuss a law as a fundamental law in the form of a law that systematically changes a rule of law, which changes a broader, completely changing general principles, and the Civil Code 91. In 88, the Constitution says that the discussion of laws is determined by the Civil Code. Now, in 13 different matters, you've filled a bag with pragmatic changes made in 13 different laws -- not basic principles -- and you're bringing them here as the fundamental law, contrary to 91. Dear friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is in charge of establishing law in accordance with our country's basic demands, our nation's needs, and under changing circumstances, and is on behalf of our nation. But it is imperative that we be law-abiding when we establish law, at least in accordance with the Civil Code, which he has prepared, which he has approved by his own votes. I mean, the General Assembly has its own agenda, we raise our finger to the General Assembly, we can build law here, but if the law we've established is against the law we've established, it's illegal. And no regulation without legal legitimacy will feed the sense of justice on the public conscience, on the human conscience, dear friends. So let's meet today. You may be right about your cause; it may be mandatory, necessary, urgent. Let's meet today. The bag that you will now accept with your votes, which you will now agree to, will be considered as the basic law of the 463 rows, so in two chapters, without too much of its content, each item changes one law, but without a debate on the matter. It's coming in less than 48 hours. I believe that 95 percent of the people present in this General Assembly have not opened the door to this law yet. How do we negotiate, what information will we discuss, and what common mind will we establish an arrangement in accordance with the needs of our nation, or will this common mind, which we have established, be legally legitimate, improve the sense of justice in the nation's conscience? So I'm talking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group -- it's not appropriate for this institution and this function, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, to set up a need, an emergency, to break this Civil Code, to do so in the past, to take refuge in its alibi. In my understanding, it's not appropriate for us to establish law, to establish law, to establish law for the people. I know there are some very valuable lawyers among you, and I believe that if they examine the matter, they won't find it right either. I repeat -- the condition of being the basic law according to the Civil Code 91, you can take a comprehensive and complete amendment in a legal field as a fundamental law. If you fill in a bag of changes made in some of the 13 laws that are needed, bring them here and force them to negotiate as the basic law, it will not be called law. At least I object to your attitude, your approach, your understanding of governance. Therefore, I would like to say that I will vote against the motion you have brought, with respect.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0042par0065	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Lehte, Mud MP Sırrı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0043par0068	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yeah, today, a bag of laws is back on the map. This Parliament has been occupied every day with such laws for a long time, but we always say we're going through an important process. In this important process, we always say that we can't make peace with this law in this country. Look, there's everything in the law that's being discussed today, so if it's in the basket, it's in this bag with the slogan, but there's no freedom, there's no justice, there's no law. Now, we see that we're going through a very important process in public research, so we see that in all the newspapers today, in all the polls, we see Turkey's support for public peace, but we don't see a single step in this, we don't see a single effort, and if we're going to solve these 90-year-old problems, we need to solve them with a new legal understanding, but we don't design our law. We use our law as a cruel weapon against our opponents. Yes, all opponents are in prison. So the way you do it against all opponents is either prison or the grave. Now, while we should all be learning from this process, unfortunately, again, Parliament is trying to continue its old way of learning. I mean, it's always been said that yesterday's sun and today's laundry are not being dried, that yesterday's law is not building our inner peace in this country. Now, Turkey has been going through a non-conflict process for several months, and there are no deaths, people are hopeful. How can we solve our problems from the past to this day, when everyone is hoping and waiting, but unfortunately there's no small effort in our Parliament. So, after June, again, Parliament will go on vacation. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, should not be wasted on this process, especially not on these kinds of laws. Freedoms taking the basic need of Turkey must be built at once. Look, this Parliament promises to change the Constitution, which is the product of September 12th, but on the other hand, the Law of Political Parties brought by generals, which is the product of September 12th, you want to become a power by being moistened by the Election Law. In this Parliament, we've said it hundreds of times on this bench. Our voter gets three shares of the tax paid by our citizen, but we don't get a cut. And then you turn around and say, "What's really wrong with you?" Even that's enough for us to fight against you. How do you feel about that right? Our citizens...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0044par0074	Is that where you call it?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0043par0075	I sing to all three parties.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0044par0076	No, honey, okay? We want it, Mr. Sakek, we want it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0043par0077	How can three parties from all our citizens' tax dollars be shared among themselves?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0044par0078	We do, don't you hear?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0043par0079	We don't just call it the Peace and Democracy Party, we say that other political parties outside Parliament should get a share of the treasure. Now, don't voters of political parties outside Parliament pay taxes in this country? It does, but there's not a single little study about it. You are still critical of the Constitution of September 12th, but the Constitution of September 12th, the Law of Political Parties, the 10 per cent dam and Election Law stand in its proper place, and the will of the people does not determine this Parliament. Who determines this Parliament? The presidents of these parties determine.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0045par0080	Mr. Sakık, let the dam descend. Who's yelling? Look, don't take advantage of our rights.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0044par0081	Who's yelling? Who's to say, "Let the election be helped"?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0043par0082	Yeah, let's all shout, shout, shout. We're just saying.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0046par0083	There's a dam, there's no treasure help, so let's put that in.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0047par0084	Let's get some treasure help, too.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0043par0085	Now, on one hand, we want freedom, and on the other hand, we condemn all of our fate to the word and word that will come out between the two lips of the presidents of these parties. There's no democracy, there's no freedom. We can't talk about freedom in this country unless this Parliament is free. Our fellow lawmakers, especially the ruling lawmakers, from time to time, come to this bench about these parliamentary research proposals, how in two minutes, sir, in one minute, they try to avoid the incident. Because that's what the president ordered, that's what the political parties ordered. This is the Law of Political Parties, and this law has no people, and the people are not decisive. On that occasion, if the democratic floor is to be opened, the Political Party Act must be changed immediately. You have to do what you have to do.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0048par0086	Is that part of your deal?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0043par0087	Together, together, it's a common duty for all of us. Together we must, yes, evaluate and change them. On the other hand, if we're going to secure our civil peace, in our internal peace... which is the product of September 12th, the Political Parties Act and the Election Law don't solve the problem as well as the Constitution doesn't solve the problem, and the law doesn't. It's the Constitution, with this law, we can't make peace internally, we can't talk about our basic problems. Now these laws need to be changed. Look, there are convictions from what we call "extraordinary state." Inside, there are PKK prisoners who have been in prison for more than 20 years, there are prisoners from the KCK, and they've been in prison for over 20 years because of their thoughts. If you're talking about peace, first of all, you need to change the law in order to free these people, you need to eliminate the Anti-Terror Law. Otherwise, the guns have stopped, eh, the Kurdish problem will be ruled... Anyway, the genetic heritage of this country is bad, and all the reality is that if there's no reaction, if there's no struggle, it's gone. Whenever a heavy price is paid, the Kurdish reality is accepted after 50,000 deaths, but when the weapons are silenced, the reality is suspended again. Every time we see an earthquake, 10,000 or 20,000 people die in an earthquake, wow, our country is on the fault line, we have to take appropriate steps. The earthquake process is ending, again, and we're suspending the earthquake. On that occasion, dear friends, we offer friendly advice. For the first time in both society and international public, Turkey is going through a process this seriously close to domestic peace. It is because there has been a process close to domestic peace, which, at times, has been attacked in Paris to ensure that Turkey's peace has not been achieved, and the events of the three Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) women and Reyhan are a different version of it. I assure you, we've always said for him: yesterday we had a necessity for peace, today we have a conviction. Parliament must implement the appropriate laws immediately, take reassuring steps. That should be the duty of Parliament. Yeah, let's talk about that from the traffic ticket to the alcohol, but just as we're going to design a law on freedom in this bag law, about our peace of mind and the constitution... now, we're always saying: there's no concept of constitution. These things I'm saying, we don't need a constitutional change to change these laws we call road cleaning. In three days' time, Parliament will sit down and change the Law of Political Parties, the Law of Elections, remove the Law of Anti-Terrorism, and the thousands of people inside will be liberated, and then, yes, we will see that steps are taken in accord with the climate of peace, the spirit of peace. Public support for 68 per cent of the population will rise to 100 per cent this time. History gives you, us, all of us, such an important task and an important responsibility. So let's really do that. Again, we emphasize that if the weapons do not speak this summer, Parliament should not get caught up in the recession and take three months off. Parliament must design the constitution, the laws this country needs, and promise our people hope. The address of this hope is Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and there's no need to make an effort outside. We say the address of this effort is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm sure something very important will happen if the House does its due diligence. I thank you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0049par0093	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Against him, İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0050par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. I will express the opinion of the Republican People's Party's Group on the group proposal to set the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today and tomorrow, if it continues. As always, the Justice and Development Party sets the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the basis of its own parliamentary majority. The party, which received 49.8 per cent of the vote, wants to make arrangements that ignore 50.2 per cent of the public's fact that 50.2 per cent did not vote for it. That's one of the arrangements for today's Parliament agenda. It should also discuss whether 49.8 per cent of the voter, who voted for the Justice and Development Party, is behind these arrangements that the AKP will make. This year we will celebrate the 90th year of the republic, heading towards the 100th year of the republic. A total of 11 years has passed since the AKP was in power. It is not possible to say that in 11 years the Justice and Development Party has brought Turkey to a better point in terms of freedom; in 11 years, Turkey has not performed a performance that has improved and improved the economic performance of the past governments. I remember very well the statement of the Justice and Development Party in 2002. They were showing an approach that brought rights and freedoms to the centre, to limit the rights and freedoms of the individual, to establish a system with a liberal framework, and at that time, there was a Justice and Development Party that supported the European Union project, which owned the European Union project. The fact that AKP staffs came from the tradition of national opinion made it controversial to discuss their sincerity about the European Union project. No one was sure; was it really believable that a party from a national opinion tradition had taken over the European Union project? Because the national opinion staff was basically against the European Union project. Today they are against the European Union project. The elections were held, the AKP was in power, and as no one expected, the Justice and Development Party had the European Union project, which surprised those who raised questions about it. The troops from the national tradition of opinion claimed the European Union project and put Turkey ahead of our nation a goal to move it to the European Union; this was truly surprising. Later, however, it turned out that the AKP's maneuver to the European Union was not really true, that it was not very sincere, that AKP did not imitate the European Union's democracies, which were centralizing human rights and freedoms. The project of the European Union, which at one point excited society, is no longer on the AKP's agenda and is no longer an exciting dynamic for society. I remember the 2007 elections, when I entered the 2007 elections, the AKP had no project called the European Union. The election propaganda of that period was based on two principles: one is the president of a religious person; two is the continuation of stability in the economy. We made the 2011 elections. There was a civilian constitution commitment, and the Republican People's Party had it, and other parties saw it as a positive approach. In order to build a civil constitution, we sat at the table with an understanding that is central to rights and freedoms, limiting the power of the state, the rights and freedoms of the individual. But it turns out that the Justice and Development Party's constitutional project is nothing more than a presidential system project that aims to make Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan president until his death. Now, we actually live under one man's rule in Turkey. There's an understanding in power that decides everything, decides everything, interferes in private living spaces. Where will the mosque be built in Istanbul? Where will the airport be located in Istanbul, the third airport? What's the route to the third bridge? Who's going to decide if the statue in Kars is a freak? Of course the Prime Minister decides. He destroyed the statue by sticking his title to that statue. In Istanbul, which businessman will plant a skyscraper in the middle of the skyline of Istanbul's historical skyline? It's always the Prime Minister's decision. Where will May 1st demonstrations be held, or rather, May 1st? How will the area of the division be shaped? What will be built instead of the artillery barracks? What about the precedent of municipalities? Where, what zoning will be given? There is an understanding that interferes with all the areas of our lives, a Prime Minister today under the rule of Turkey. So, without the presidential system, the one man lives on all the oppressive aspects of the administration in Turkey. Imagine if there was a presidential system in Turkey, Turkey would say goodbye to democracy. I don't think it's possible for this to happen, I think you're going to say no to our nation's presidential system, the model that designed Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's presidency. I don't think they'll pass through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey without even going to the referendum, I believe that. But today we see the attitude of one man's administration in the legislature of an understanding that wants to invade every aspect of our lives, to take away our living spaces. The offer we will discuss is number 463 rows. As of this morning, it was only available to lawmakers at noon, and we will now begin negotiations on this proposal. We're going to talk to the MPs about an understanding that doesn't even know how to prepare for it. Of course, we're going to give our views on this proposal, our proposals for improvement, our amendment proposals, and we're going to try to turn it into what society wants, what society needs. But it turns out that the Justice and Development Party, which took over the European Union project in 2002, took the European Union project off Turkey's agenda 11 years later, and brought Turkey's membership into an economic partnership that we can refer to as a problem country club with democracy, such as the Shanghai Five. This is a goal that only those with authoritarian understanding, executives, politicians, can put ahead of Turkey. This can't even be a negotiation tactic. In the face of the European Union, I will go to Shanghai Five and become a member. If you say, "You don't really have a goal of democracy and freedom." It was a good test, it came out. Today we are discussing an offer that this insight would dictate to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, the same understanding of the OSCE Commission today has exerted pressure on members of the Republican People's Party KİT Commission. The information requested by our lawmakers on the CIT Commission to be able to carry out the duties of supervision has been withheld from them. We condemn that administration, that practice there, that attitude as the Republican People's Party. I'm running out of time here, so I'm gonna call it off. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0051par0110	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I'd like to put the Justice and Development Group to your votes...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0052par0112	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has made an accusation regarding today's CSI Commission, and I would like to speak as head of the CSI Commission.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0051par0113	Here you go, Mr. Poyraz.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0052par0117	Mr. President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, Mr. Group Deputy Director, pointed out today's unpleasant events in the CSI Commission, claiming that the right to control the OSCE Commission has been blocked and pressured by Republican People's Party MPs. The transcripts are in our Parliamentary Office. The CSI Commission is fully documented, as is the case with our General Assembly, and all talks are noted in this sense. There, as the Council of Presidents, we have been promised to our fellow MPs not only today, but in previous meetings, but also in previous meetings, that they have not been interrupted, and that our fellow lawmakers, whether they are in power or opposition, have expressed all their concerns, their hesitations, as questions, to relevant organizations, both written and verbally. If there's any pressure here that claims that there's no inspection, the evidence needs to be made very, very clear. We, as a witness to history, present our Commission's transcripts to our General Assembly. In addition, all of our Commission meetings -- stemming from the Petrol Law -- are held publicly to the press, except for the Anonymous Partnership of Turkish Oil and the Commission meetings of BOTAŞ. So everything that's going on is out in front of the public. In that sense, Mr. Group, I have an opinion where the Vice President is wrongly informed. If he has a claim at a point where the audit isn't done, which isn't, or isn't, and he's not, then we can give them a list of minutes of minutes, name of our MPs talking at the CSI Commission, name of the party, promise of the party. The CIT Commission has its agenda. All our fellow commissioners take their word for it, and they are free to do what the law has given us to do under the limits of courtesy. I reject the allegations of oppression here as the President of the Commission and the Presidential Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0053par0124	Thank you, Mr. Poyraz.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0054par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0053par0126	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0054par0127	Mr. President, in the session held today at the CSI Commission, I have made an assessment that the demands of Republican People's Party members have not been met, and therefore that they have not been able to carry out their audit duties properly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0055par0128	You're condemning me.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0054par0129	An MP is a member of the legislature, so there is an audit duty. The audit task gives him the right and authority to oversee all operations of the operation. However he can use this authority with a question motion, he has the authority to ask for relevant information from the administration during talks at the CSI Commission and to do so by asking for a report. In an unrelated way, Mr. Commissioner has considered what I'm saying in a different way. So, there's a tease. If you'll excuse me, I'd like a word about teasing. Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu will speak, our spokesman for the CIT Commission.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0056par0131	Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0057par0135	Mr. President, good lawmakers, the audit is not limited to the right to speak, not just by word. The audit is the right to examine information and documents regarding a number of allegations in the administration based on the authority given by the nation. We've come up with some very important allegations. The Minister is here, for example. He said: "We have been defrauded." We said: "You have given $450 million to the partners of the companies for which you have been defrauded." We'd like to see the documents on these tenders. Mr. Secretary is here, the President of the Commission is here. It's my constitutional right. I didn't see these documents. I asked the Minister of Energy here: the company run by the Prime Minister's son-in-law, Samsun, Samsun Public Prosecutor's Office, there is a criminal charge against fraud of treasure, reputable fraud. I wanted to see the report on this report in TEDAS General Directorate accounts, in which I was in charge of the Commission, and I requested it in writing, and I couldn't access these information and documents. What we're saying is that we're the nation's surrogates. If these allegations are unrealistic, show me the documents, and we'll all decide together.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0139	Prove it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0057par0140	Before you see these documents, if you call me a witness... the minister has accepted these documents here, he said there is such an investigation. There's information on it in the court report, but we'd like to see the original documents. Let's go to the judge. We saw the words at the Lighthouse. Today, we were threatened with murder on that commission. We don't just look at him, we shoot him if we have to. A congressman said. We want all lawmakers to know...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0142	You're wrong, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0057par0143	You'll see in the reports, we'll shoot him. He said, "You'll see him in the reports."
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0144	That's not the statement in the reports, no, it's not.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0057par0145	May our lives be sacrificed to these people. If the man has the guts to shoot, let him shoot, we're here.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0059par0147	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0059par0149	Here you go, Mr. Poyraz.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0152	Now, Mr. Erdoğdu comes out, talks, and talks about other things. I mean, there's a certain way the Commission works. While the investigations demanded by our commission continue, it is against the Commission's working procedures to ask for that investigation report while the investigations are incomplete, and the investigations he is talking about are already requested by our Commission, and investigations are currently under way. So let's not let some information, you know, deflect there, by referring to a minister, a minister here, or another friend. I'm explaining this to you for the record. And, please, let our friends criticize themselves a little bit. I mean, it belongs to the owner. Some of our friends in that speech also say we're sorry if we have to, but on the contrary, we give our lives, we shed our blood.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0060par0154	Tell me if you said we'd shoot him or not.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0155	Read the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0061par0156	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0062par0157	You say we hit him, he says we kill ourselves.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0158	No, it's not...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0062par0159	Well, let it go, it started after the Prime Minister's burial literature.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0058par0160	Read the transcripts, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0063par0161	We'll review, review, review, review, and look at this matter, the discussion of the Commission here, and you, as the Commissioner of the Commission on it, will meet the requirements of our MPs there.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0064par0162	Mr. President, I'm so sorry. That's where the commission paperwork will come in.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0065par0164	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0064par0165	He said in front of bureaucrats and other MPs, we don't just look at him, we hit him.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0065par0166	He didn't say that, he didn't say that, wait a minute. Why are you looking at me? You said so yourself.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0066par0167	Yes, now, members of lawmakers, he said so, that's what he said. We can't solve it here.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0064par0168	We're going to look at the transcripts now. There's a lot of witnesses there. It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you. We've heard it with our ears, whether you accept it or not.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0065par0169	The friend never said anything to you, you said it to yourself. I'm not looking at you. He said.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0066par0170	Congressmans, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0064par0171	We hit him. He said.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0065par0172	No, he said he should have looked.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0066par0173	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0064par0174	You'll see it in the reports, you'll see it in the audio. I'm handing it over to all the MPs.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0065par0175	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0064par0176	It'll be in the transcripts and audio recordings.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0067par0177	You look at the transcripts, and it's clear what they're saying. Now, I submit to your votes the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group under Article 19 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0068par0184	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0067par0185	All in favor...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0069par0186	It's okay, it's okay, it's a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0070par0187	You have taken a vote, Mr. President, and the vote has been passed.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0067par0188	We've got a roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0069par0189	It's okay, Mr. President, it's okay.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0071par0190	Mr. President, I asked for the roll call on time, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0067par0191	Congressmans, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0072par0192	The vote has been passed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0067par0193	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öğün...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0073par0194	And why are we stuck in the air, Mayor?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0067par0195	Mr. Small, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Wolf, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Ören, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Thrower, Mr. Agha, Mr. Cherry...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0073par0196	Mr. President, don't beat up the Civil Code. You'll need it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0067par0197	Mr. Proposal, Mr. Planter. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, we move to the part of the agenda with the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Turkish Oil Act and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked third. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with Manisa MP Recai Berber and Isparta MP Süzeyya Sadi Bilcç and 17 MPs, who have been ranked in the fourth place, and the Plan and Budget Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed by 463 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On top of the proposal, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0074par0229	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the Law Proposal 463. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, we have begun negotiations with a new bag offer, a classic application of the Justice and Development Party legislative activities. In today's bag offer, 18 articles of law and law shall be made in accordance with the decree. The AKP undermines the legislative quality of the Turkish Grand National Assembly because of its stance. It's actually a bill, a bill, but it's tried to be considered as an offer, and it's just an application of understanding that sees Parliament as a position of approval. Any report from the four commissions tasked with further and more technical examination of the arrangements offered was not expected. This practice is a reflection of the AKP's coercionist and I did it. We all know that the bag contains non-related arrangements as well as the nature of the proposals. The proposal includes extensive regulations from alcohol to mosques, mosques, and Quran courses, from publicisation procedures to applications made to the Court of Human Rights. The fact that the unsolicited arrangements with this content will be voted in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a whole also shows a different contradiction. Dear lawmakers, we find some of the regulations in this law proposal to be positive, and we have given the necessary contribution in both the lower commission and the upper commission, but there are some very important issues that we find positive and critical and offer. We're going to talk about it in terms of materials, and when we start negotiating, we're going to talk about it with our suggestions. The first article of the law proposal appears as a form of amnesty. The AKP will make a law, and there will be no pardon, no favor, no exception, and we will be surprised. Therefore, in this proposal of law, it is included in every article, as in every bag bill, as in a necessary clause. Just the other day, a presence peace broke out. And now, due to payments made to the president and members of the bail box, the collection of outstanding debts is being waived and the debt surveillance process will be terminated. This pardoned arrangement has been brought to the General Assembly's agenda without the opinion of the Justice Commission. This also violates the Civil Code of the Turkish Parliament. The proposal for the law has come to light with public drinking arrangements. The 2 to 6th article of the proposal includes bans and fine regulations on the production, consumption, marketing, sale, advertising and promotion and involvement of alcohol and traffic. First of all, we would like to say that under Article 58 of our Constitution, we support all legal provisions to protect our citizens from alcoholism, drugs, and other harmful habits, especially our children and young ones. However, regulations on the prevention of alcohol use in this law proposal are considered only under bans and fines, and are mainly weighted for advertising and publicity. Therefore, the subject is neglected in the direction of education, awareness and individual fundamental rights and freedoms. Is there any government that can work in these matters, except that it is Ourselves alone? This proposal does not include an regulation on the principle of protecting young people from alcohol addiction, which is expressed in Article 58 of our Constitution. Only this, advertising, advertising, and some other sanctions regarding punishments will be dealt with as much alcoholism as possible. In the first form of the proposal presented to the Speaker of Parliament, some prohibitions were a quality that could exceed the purpose of the law. In this case, it would not even be possible to publish a scientific paper on alcoholic beverages. The amendments to the commission talks have been corrected, these errors have been corrected. Of course, it is also fair to say that there have been serious and positive changes made in some of the work done in both the lower commission and the upper commission. That's the upside. Dear lawmakers, as a matter of fact, we support and support the legal measures taken by our children and young people to protect and save our people from their addiction to alcohol. However, the method adopted by the AKP is a system based only on bans. That's what we want to stand on and get the government's attention. This method is an inactive method. Prohibitions could not prevent unwanted behavior at any time in history. There have been attempts to create isolated areas, such as red street, to ban alcohol consumption in certain areas of some cities related to preventing alcohol use. In the same way, the OTV from alcoholic beverages has been increased in the fight against alcohol consumption. During the AKP period, Turkey held almost the world record in the DUV, which was bought from alcoholic beverages. However, despite all of this, the Justice and Development Party period will go down in history as the years when alcohol consumption will increase. In 2003 -- as a result of our collection of official institutions and serious research -- alcohol consumption of 550 million liters increased by about 123 per cent in 2012 to 1 billion 127 million liters. This applies to 123 per cent. Again, Mr. Finance Minister, who responded to one of our MPs' motions, gave these figures in close amounts. As of the last six months of 2003, the alcohol consumption of 537 million litres in the country, and the 11 months of 2012, the consumption of 1 billion, 20 million litres of alcohol indicates that it exceeds 100 per cent. Yeah, that doesn't include moonshine. And Turkey has a problem with illegal alcohol, just like in illegal smoking. So if we look at cigarettes, as of 2002, it appears that the consumption of 5 billion 500 million packs of cigarettes has dropped to 4.5 billion packages. Of course, that doesn't mean the consumption of cigarettes is going down, it's a number of illegal cigarettes increasing. During the AKP period, however, pure alcohol consumption per person has reached 1.3 liters per person. In particular, the consumption of alcohol between our children and our young ones reached an alarming point during the AKP period. In studies conducted among elementary school students, primary school uses alcohol at least 1 time during primary school, the proportion of elementary school students is 15 percent, and our secondary school students have reached 50 per cent, and university students reach 54 per cent. The fact that these figures are expressed is that our youth's drinking rate has risen in Turkey under the ten-and-a-half-year AKP administration. Another important indication is that the government can't keep our young people from drinking alcohol is that alcohol is a lower age of first use. According to Greenbear's research, the first use of alcohol has been reduced to up to 11. In the AKP's anti-alcohol approach, the error of this law proposal is also reflected in the findings of the causes of alcohol use. As a matter of fact, among our young people, there is a very low percentage of people who are tempted to consume these drinks because they're influenced by the advertising of alcoholic beverages. Our young people are more inclined to drink alcohol with factors such as friendship, social structure, family situation, psychological causes. Therefore, there is a necessity to first see the solution to the problem in improving education and social opportunities and environments. Alcohol use should be dealt with by individual harms, as well as by social effects. Alcohol abuse results, such as continuity of the family, the destruction of social peace, health and trust. But more importantly, alcohol abuse raises threats to life and property. The World Health Organization data also features DUIs at the top of risk factors for traffic accidents. The data on traffic accidents in our country also shows that. According to police headquarters data, the driver in the police responsibilities area was killed in 2012 due to 1.819. In the same way, as of March 2013, in the three-month period of police responsibility, the driver was also involved in the wrong, mortal and injured 27,723 accidents due to alcohol use. There is also an 80 per cent increase in the number of driver's licenses recovered from 2003 to 2012 due to alcohol use. There is also a 96 per cent drop in the number of drivers confiscated due to speeding. So there's a lot more control and compliance on speed bids. Dear lawmakers, the proposal of the law is only to foresee some regulations for the consumption of alcoholic beverages, which also shows that the government is lacking its mandate under Article 58 of our Constitution. The government must protect our young people not only from alcohol but also from drugs, guilt, gambling, and other bad habits. In particular, drug use is one of the most important factors that affect the health and social life of our young and children. Some of the research done by the Turkish Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction offers very remarkable figures and figures that we should definitely care about. For example, a 1.5 per cent test rate of any illicit addictive substance among students has been found at least once. When the first age of use of the substance was reduced to ten, mind you, the first use of a drug was reduced to ten years old. This is a terrible situation -- the youngest child who has been treated for drug use has also been identified as 13 years old. So now we're a country where even 13-year-olds are treated for drug abuse. Again, the first use of those who are treated for drug use is 87 per cent of the youth age. They are often exposed to all these harmful habits in their early childhood and early teens. Despite all this data, we can't really see any of the government's efforts to combat drug use. If so, Mr. Health Minister must have an answer to these data, these questions, these criticisms. And the AKP probably doesn't see drug use as a social injury. Dear lawmakers, Article 11 of the law proposal is an arrangement that gives an important privilege to the banking sector. It's impossible to accept the arrangement as it is. It has to be removed completely or rearranged. As we all know, banking is one of the most profitable sectors in our country. However, such concessions to the banking sector are contrary to the principles of taxation and generality. In order to address this discrepancy, the rule set for the banking sector must also be made for various business fees, private school, driving courses, which have been collected annually in the Law on Harms No. 492. Article 13 of the 13th article organises issues related to the implementation of the property of the public institution and its institutions and the property of the treasury by the chairmanship of the Dianet Businesses, which are included in mosques, mosques and Quran courses or in plugins or complementary parts and are envisioned to be used in commercial activities. Unfortunately, the construction of mosques and mosques is already being used in commercial activities. In 2012 alone, the Ministry of Religious Affairs collected a rent fee of $388,000 with 100 new rental agreements for the use of mosques and mosque properties in commercial activities. Unfortunately, these activities are remembered for corruption and irregularity, valued lawmakers. The Court's audit report on the Ministry of Finance in 2011 said that 25 per cent of the money obtained from rentals at the site of the Ministry of Religious Affairs of the treasury must be paid to the Finance Ministry, but this money has been transferred to the Religious and Social Services Foundation. We see that this arrangement, which is part of the proposal, has the purpose of the legal settlement of this error, unlawfulness, and irregularity expressed in the Court's report. It is currently not satisfied with a 75 per cent share, but also the 25 per cent to be transferred to the Finance Ministry is requested to be confiscated. I was going to say, I'm not going to say that anymore. On the other hand, as a principle, I would like to point out that it is not right to put the extensions of the mosque, the mosque, the mosque, and the Koran courses into commercial activity, no matter what kind of complementary parts. This is not in line with the customs and customs of the Turkish nation for worship and education, which have demonstrated its services to Islamic religion with unique examples of civilization for at least a thousand years. The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs must liquidate these practices as soon as possible and will no longer allow commercial spaces in mosques, mosques, and courses. Under the 14th article of the proposal, additional indicators of the National Security Council's Secretary-General (Secretary) Group (Secretary of the Finnish National Security Board) are being added to the 657 State Officers Act (III). Of course, this arrangement is primarily appropriate, but it is necessary and necessary to make arrangements for other public officials who are waiting for their positions to be corrected in public. If such an arrangement is being made in this framework, there should be no harm done in meeting other wrongs, other expectations, and resolving mistakes, and there will be a motion for that. In this framework, the situation of the head of the office and department, the head of the National Education Group, the head of the budget office, the manager of the accounting office, the manager of national real estate, the manager of justice, the head of the ministry's municipal managers and police personnel should be judged accordingly. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0075par0257	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0076par0260	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to present the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding bag number 463. I salute you all. In fact, we would like to first state that this bill, whose name is mentioned as the alcohol bill, is a bag of laws that are wanted to hide from the public, cover different issues, distract them, contain serious issues. We've been able to correct a lot of articles on the subcommittee and the main commission. There were some really bad mistakes. I'd like to thank all the friends of the Commissioner who've been through so much. Again, there are very important issues that need to be corrected in the General Assembly, there are violations of the Constitution, there are violations of some basic rights and freedoms. We also think that members of the General Assembly should be careful about these matters. The understanding of the bag is, in fact, a political, ideological approach. The AK PARTY government is spreading its lifestyle over alcohol and harmful substances. He imposes a conflicting, segregating, centralist, self-centered, and selfish approach to religion, property, rights and freedoms. The heel of the cantar is soaring that it offers a double standard, unprincipled, pragmatic, demagogic, and a slightly partisanal approach, even in matters of harm and sin. There's no difference between sin and sin. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we have demonstrated a positive, positive, democratic opposition to correcting many wrongs, including the main commission, starting with the lower commission. Today, in the General Assembly, we will once again reveal to the public the deadlocks, wrongs of power's political, philosophical approach. Whether it's about rights and freedoms, whether it's an approach to religious beliefs, we're going to focus on the inconsistencies, the inconsistencies, the inconsistencies, the inconsistencies that are incompatible with the public interest. First of all, this bag contains alcohol, tobacco, advertising, advertising, traffic, property rights, Koran courses, dorms, mosque shops, foundations, people's debts, TTV, VAV... whatever you're looking for, it's in this bag. In this bag of laws, Turkey has no current problems; there is no justice, no freedom, no equality, and most importantly, no tolerance. Look, most importantly, I'm saying there's no tolerance, I'm stressing that word. We're a Congress with MPs under arrest. Look, almost eight MPs are under arrest and the term is almost over, we're going to the elections. The elected mayors, councilmen, city council members, party executives are under arrest for their ideas from Congress. Thought, freedom of organization, long imprisonment, independent and unbiased justice... the release of extraordinary judgment into the hands and mercy of these judges... after the closure of special courts... I make it clear from here that Mr. Selma River, elected MP from the Peace and Democracy Party, and all of our other friends, including Faysal Sarıstar, Kemal Aktaş, İbrahim Ayhan, Gülser Yıldırım, are being tried for membership, and all of our fellow MPs have been filled with the minimum degree of punishment. Now that they're doing extra time, there's no more lawsuits, no more eviction warrants. When that happens, it's hard to understand that the next time we bring the facts to Turkey's agenda, we'll have to talk about a new constitutional process, the Political Party Act, the Elections Act, election dams, the Treasury Aids, the issues that need to be discussed in the middle of the night, and the next morning, we'll be given two or three hours in the middle of the night, and we'll be asked to deal with them in such a hurry, again, in the same day, before the end of twenty-four hours, in spite of the Interior Chart. Well, according to the government, there's a fight against harmful things, isn't there? Agreed. Well, isn't gambling, prostitution, drugs, loan sharking, tampering with the tender, stealing, fraud harmful, isn't it a sin, isn't it, my friends? Well, why isn't there an arrangement? I'd like to talk to you about some facts. The state gets 8 billion on alcohol, 21 billion on tobacco, VAT, VAT. I don't include taxes from brothels, you know, there was a record number at some point in Istanbul. Now, the number of tourists to Turkey is 35 million, and 99 percent of them are not Muslims. Go to the field; there are 30,000 Germans in the summer. Go to Marmaris, go to Bodrum, where you see tourists from many European countries, who have acquired property. Now, 35 million tourists will come to Turkey, the World Tourism Organization (WTO) will say that Turkey's tourism revenue is $25.7 billion and is ranked 12. Just in the last three months -- look, this is the dead season of tourism -- the number of tourists with an increase of 18.7 percent is 5,8,425. Now, if you think all these tourists are Turkish, Islam, Hanefi, and you think they're going to happen, you're in a strange error, my friends. It's not a crowd you can impose on your own way of life. You'd be mistaken if you thought you'd impose unbelief on their religion. If you think we're indispensable to tourism, especially when the United States, Europe, is facing a world economic crisis, you're wrong again. There are many countries with beaches like Turkey, sun, sand, shish kebabs, friends. Now, you may not consider this, but you should also know that the money from Turkey's tourism and entertainment sector into its budget is about $100 billion, and that the Turkish budget is close to one-third of its revenue resources -- if you don't know about it, if you don't know math, no one has to tell you about it -- but you should also know how many 100,000 people work in this sector. How many thousand workers work in Antalya during the summer season? Do you have any idea how many people work in the food industry, in the restaurant, in the beach, on the beach, all over the textiles, in the food industry, in the housing industry? I gave an example of our one and only province. Now, if you don't take that into account, if your decisions hit something, remember, tourism is like a stock market; once it's crashed like a stock market, it can't recover. That's the reality of it. I'd like to make you a few more suggestions if you want to deal with some of the harmful things: 100,000 sex workers appeared in Turkey with statistics with 56 official brothels. Yes, the oldest profession in history now walks as illegal, black money. If you take into account a reality of the present conditions, you might be able to understand a little bit more about how the Sumerian faith, the Greek Aphrodite, the Roman blessing, went through the temple monuments as a symbol of the blessing. Well, if this has a law, if it's harmful, why isn't the government working on it? Let's skip that, and I'll tell you about something else that's harmful. I don't want to disturb you too much, but this is a serious matter, and I'm going to mention it. Let's take a look at the gambling industry. Turkey is the third place in gambling, my friends. Did you know he had a record like that? We're in third place. National Lottery, Toto, Lottery, Numbers, horse racing, offshore racing, online virtual POS... The number of gambling, the number of betting, is one and a half million citizens. Five billion dollars is the number of these. Come on in. Let's go through here. Is the government ready to face gambling? Well, we're going to talk about harmful things. If you're correct in your political philosophy, if you're sincere in your beliefs, come, I'm not going to enter other areas, I'm opening two or three points like this. Now, I'm not going to be a loan shark, I'm not going to be a loan shark, and I'm not going to be an official loan shark that the government, the banks, are, because there are rules in this law that forgive bankers' fees and extortion. There are 18 banks among the first 18 most profitable companies in Turkey while the world is in crisis after crisis. If you don't forgive their allowance, won't they ask in the law, brother, what's the minimum wager's sin, what's the officer's sin, what's the worker's sin? Isn't there a scale for throwing so many gas bombs because he wanted his rights, for God's sake? Now, do you have any sociological work on the stoves that have been burned out in this loan sharkery? I suggest we do. For God's sake, in these important matters -- including alcohol, the subject of our current case -- what RD study can you scientifically put in front of us? We've opened two hundred universities. You show off every day. This is where we support the opening of every incoming university. Which university can you bring me a proper report on alcohol and present it here today? Well, then, whose business is it to deal with the truth of this country, my friends? So we're not interested in our own problems. Dear lawmakers, illegal cigarettes as a result of extreme ideological taxes, then increase in the production of counterfeit alcohol, and then death begins in tourist areas. Unfortunately, there have been examples of pain in this money traffic. Of course, one of the things that needs serious research is control and control of prohibitions, which is a very different thing. We are faced today with a government bill designed by bureaucrats only, such as education, health, without having to do enough research on matters that the House should co-operate on and everyone else should. Mr. Minister of Health is sitting down representing the government, but it has not been discussed in the Health Commission. There's a very bad legal error in this bill that rushed from commission to here. While the Bars set their legal fees, the Special Lawyer's Act is within the scope of the law, which includes their legal fees for treasure, municipal, bank-related matters. We don't know what kind of approach this is, guys. Property rights are sacred, constitutionally established, cleared by the courts of the European Court of Human Rights, where regulations for the violation of property rights, despite that property law. Again, there's no percentage, no mercy in punishments and custodians, my friends. So it's the same punishment for a small business with four tables in Datça, a company that employs 3,000 people in the Bosphorus. Now, have a heart. It's a punishment, four tables in Datça, maybe three months, that's the truth. There are regulations here that will bankrupt thousands of small businesses. Which one of the trade and trade rooms did you get the right view of? No. Look, guys, there's been a ban on headscarfs in the past. Then there are language bans throughout the republic since 1924. Today, as a mindset of these prohibitions, one of them is no different, my friends. It's forbidden. It's forbidden. Who's IV. It's like Murat. He says, "I'm not going to say that much, 'cause they're friends. I don't want to compare it to Murat. The bag, the law, had a few useful items. The Van Centennial University, which had experienced an earthquake, would receive 300 training staffs. You withdrew it immediately on the commission. Don't you know how to do a good job for God's sake? Why did you bring it, why did you pull it back? The ruler was out, what they were going to get, where they were going to work. Come on, for God's sake, let it go. The people of Van will ask you why you suffered in Van, in the election, in the chest. Now, small towns, municipalities... the money that comes in certainly doesn't cover the staff salary. Now, you're talking about anonymous hand-offs. Which of these small towns, small boroughs, can give this money in the free hand-off? Why doesn't the treasure pay? Where's the government? That's the government, fellas. The government will take care of its own institution. Now, we've learned all about the law, the regulations. I'm going to go over a few things. It was an organization that worked for green amma, and now you want to start its foundation. The foundation, its founders, its number, cannot be changed. What does that mean for power? You're setting up your own special staffing. He's getting his hands on mosques' shops, their plots, the decontamination business, the religion, is that what's going to happen, fellas? If there is any trade in the affairs of religion and the army, there will be no calmness there, and there will be constant rant fighting, and there will be also an error. Religion will establish its own Koran courses and dorms. So, for God's sake, Imam oratories, if you can't teach the Koran, if you can't teach the Koran, if you can't do it in all schools, which dorms will you start? You guys want to come up with the February 28th confirmation? Again, friends, there is a special arrangement even in article 1. You've brought a special law to the individual. It's a shame you kept this coven busy for hours for $44,000. One person benefits from 44,000 liras in article 1. Is there a government bill for that, people? Don't be shy, don't be mean! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why we're against it, we have motions. This bill was so twisted, we'll try to fix it some more, I hope.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0077par0290	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0078par0294	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. We're discussing a bag of legislation with regulations for a significant limitation of alcoholic beverages. During talks with the Plan and Budget Commission on the Bag Bill, members of the Republican People's Party Plan and Budget Commission have made a huge effort to improve the offer as much as possible, to correct it. They succeeded in part of their efforts, but failed in part. The reason for their failure is, of course, because of the government's position and the ruling party's position. During the commission talks, the proposal was transferred to the subcommittee at the request of the Republican People's Party Group. In representing our group on the subcommittee, İstanbul MP Aydın Ayadın has been found, and has made great efforts in a very busy working environment in what we might call a day-and-night study, and has proposed substantially some of the materials to be corrected, and some of them have been approved. If we really take into account the first form of the proposal, we'll find that an offer is prepared with an undeterred, highly antidemocratic, highly alcoholic beverage industry, and a non-democratic understanding that ignores our citizens who consume these drinks. Part of it, as I explained, has been corrected during the work of the Plan and Budget Commission, but there are still some materials that need to be corrected. Mr. Aydın Ayyadın was going to make this speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, but he couldn't be here because of his illness, so I wish him well. I'm doing the speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Dear lawmakers are the head of the sector of alcoholic beverages, where the world-wide concepts of regulation and control are used together. In almost several countries, the alcohol industry is organised by a regulator, auditory agency or public administration, and is provided to work under certain rules. The need for regulation and supervision of the alcoholic beverage industry is due to the abuse of alcohol, or, in fact, to the extreme use of alcohol, of human health, and therefore to public health. That's the way it is in all civilized countries, democratic countries. For use of alcoholic beverages, various restrictions are brought to each country by its own needs and culture. Restrictions can be done in a number of ways. First, it is called for citizens to be over a certain age when it comes to buying that drink so that they can drink alcohol. This is an important element. In Turkey, for example, the age of 18 is 18, and the offer is protected by 18 years of age, and there will be no sale of alcoholic beverages in any way under 18 years of age. This is, of course, the right arrangement. Again, advertising for alcoholic beverages may be a limitation in various countries. For example, in many European Union member states, television advertising does not exist. Not in Turkey, but in other areas, promotion differs from country to country. This proposal strictly prohibits the introduction of alcoholic beverages. The goal should be to fight alcohol and alcoholism, not to fight alcohol and alcohol abuse, but to look at the basic joke of the proposal, the basis of the proposal, it is understood that the Justice and Development Party's government has orchestrated this proposal with an ideological approach, in terms of the fight against alcohol and alcohol use. That's wrong. Alcohol abuse is not encouraged in any country that values human health, but it does not prevent individuals from choosing to drink alcohol. It's the government's duty to explain to people, society, the damage that alcohol abuse can do to human health. The state cannot take on an assignment to replace the individual, to intervene in his living space, in his freedom, to prevent him from drinking alcohol in the long run, to eliminate the production and consumption of alcoholic beverages. No one confuses their beliefs with other practices. A man may not drink because of his faith. Islam prohibits alcoholism, it's a sin, but the state can't make a legal arrangement based on the concept of sin. The state is tasked with explaining to its citizens the damage that alcohol abuse, alcohol abuse, or alcohol abuse can do to human health. Drinking is not a virtue, nor is drinking a virtue. People who care about their health may not drink alcohol, never drink alcohol, drink less, and some may not drink alcohol because of their faith, not because of health. In a democratic society, in a democratic country, they're all respectable. Governments, governments, governments have to respect the individual's choices, but unfortunately that's not the approach. With an ideological approach, the proposal wants to remove alcohol and alcohol consumption from Turkey's agenda with a religious approach. Given the initial version of the proposal, we see that this approach is very rijit, very strict. I'd like to give you a few examples of the original version of the proposal. For example, all DUI service businesses would be licensed by the authorities, which would bring such an arrangement, so the governors, the governors, would allow it. However, there is a sitting practice, where a service company gets a license from the municipality to open a business, even if it offers alcoholic beverages, and then gets it from trade rooms, trade rooms, and so does the system. But here's the approach the proposal brings: no, that's not true. We'll give it to the bosses. For this reason, Izmir municipalities -- for example, the Republican People's Party municipalities, the trade and industry rooms in İzmir, the trade rooms in the industry, of course, I don't know what the party is, but it's made up of people who respect the freedoms of the individual very highly. If they're authorized to give you the license, they'll give you the license. But if we give this authority to the governors and the governors under the government's command, we give it to whom we please, and we don't give it to whom we please. Some of these have been corrected, such as our intense objections to the Plan and Budget Commission on licensing have been corrected as a result of our criticism. Or there will be no liquor licenses in places that are 100 metres away from the places of worship, the classrooms, the courses, the schools, the universities. That's 100 meters away now. This is where the classrooms are added. If there was a liquor-drinking business within 100 yards of a school where college students went, the license would have been virtually terminated. Then, yes, let's preserve these carved rights, and let's keep it. But let's say that the owner of that service business couldn't, couldn't, couldn't, or died in the future. In the event of his passing of his death, this license does not pass to his heirs, nor does it give the license to anyone. Our cities are changing, evolving. It's a busy place for service businesses today, so it could be a housing area tomorrow. A place with a housing area today could turn into a busy area of business tomorrow. Needs can change. Cities, like a living organism, are constantly transforming. This transformation requires making arrangements to meet his needs, but the offer has cut them off, and has an approach that doesn't pay any attention to them. Some of it has been healed, like I said, but some of the problems are still going on. If a man believes that his religious beliefs apply to everyone, he accepts them, and he accepts that it is his duty to spread these beliefs and proper practices, and he accepts that it is his duty to accept them into society, he cannot be a Democrat, he cannot be enlightened. The Democrat is the one who respects the human's life choices, the right to live. We use it a lot now, the concepts of democracy, the concepts of democracy, the concepts of liberism, the concepts of freedom. When we look at the Speakers of the Justice and Development Party, they use it very often. Here, in the Constitutional Compromise Commission, we, the People's Party of the Republic, want to make a constitution that centers the rights and freedoms of the individual. The greatest power to intervene in these freedoms is the state that is tasked with protecting these freedoms. But since the state tasked with protecting freedoms is also the greatest force to intervene in freedoms, in a constitution, the power of the state is limited, we say so. As much as the Justice and Development Party says so, they really want to make a constitution, which, of course, took Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan to the centre and designed his presidency. Speaking of which, the Justice and Development Party speakers are liberal, democratic. Liberism is a doctrine of what laws are supposed to be, a system. Democracy is the name of the regime on how to decide what laws should be. Here's the problem: What should the law be, how should it be, and how should we decide? The Justice and Development Party, based on its 49.8 per cent vote in the election, wants to make arrangements for the remaining 50.2 per cent -- the majority's opinion -- that is, perhaps not himself -- that voted for, not perhaps, but certainly -- to intervene in the living area of an important part. We don't think that's true. Alcohol, the liquor industry, of course, will be under control. Governments do not encourage alcohol consumption, they take measures to do so. Liquor stores, businesses will be seen from the outside -- I mean, companies that sell liquor, not service businesses -- shouldn't design a window to attract drinking use. Children under 18 should not be able to buy liquor. These are always the procedures that have to be done within the regulatory framework. On the other hand, civilized countries, modern countries, modern democracies use another method, use taxes, use private consumption taxes. Private consumption taxes are used for the purpose of providing income to the treasure, and on the other hand, it is used as a way to influence consumer behavior, to change them. Special consumption taxes -- since we have a subject, I'm going to express it limited -- are taken over alcoholic beverages, through tobacco products, across all countries. It's a European Union tax. In these countries, there are other products -- of course, there are other products -- but I'm not going to go into them now -- you get special consumption tax. This type of tax has been taken since the state of state. Today it is a modern tax that the European Union organises its directives. Turkey is implementing this tax very successfully. It is a tax imposed by the 57th government at the time in 2002. Since alcoholic beverages and cigarettes are bad for your health, the rates of these taxes are a little high, that's natural. The goal is to reduce the attraction here, which means everyone shouldn't consume it. But if you take this increase to extraordinary measures, it's wrong, which then suggests an ideological approach. Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party has been heavily taxed on private consumption in this area. We don't think that's true. There are arrangements in the proposal that we find extremely wrong. For example, there is a substance that is organized along with alcohol abuse. There'll be a Green Moon Foundation next to the green moon. The offer seems to have been altered on the commission, maybe a little bit more healed, but it stands with all its objections. It seems to me that the government wants to do with the Yerenai Foundation what it cannot, and what it cannot, and what it cannot, and what it cannot, is not true. The Prime Minister is setting up an extraordinary large maneuvering field there by placing a close government there, and by providing him with resources to the Green Moon Society and the Yerenai Foundation, with this proposal and a legal arrangement earlier. The following are the errors of the Green Moon Foundation: First, the Green Moon Foundation is founded by law, and the foundation is founded for charity. If there are people who want to fight alcoholism, alcohol abuse, let them get together and start a foundation. It's going to be funded by a purse, a government pouch, and someone's going to be in charge of that foundation, and they're going to spend it. There's no way to accept that. There is a basic principle of Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018, which will be transferred from the state budget. If any foundation is transferred to the public, to a community that is useful, the state will oversee it, and it will reveal its consequences to the public. The proposal says: "No, the state will not control how the funds transferred to the Yerenai Foundation, and no one will know what is being done there." Such a thing is not acceptable. It's a dark, closed area, creating a wide maneuvering field. Large funds will be transferred from the budget, no telling what to do. Kasri, one of the most beautiful, historical buildings in Istanbul, was given to the Yeşelay Society at the order of the Prime Minister. Kasri, the historic Basketists of international organizations, is now the base of the Green Moon Society. It will be transferred from the budget to the Green Moon Society to the Green Moon Foundation. Not enough, the Yeşilaj Foundation will benefit from all the privileges provided by the Council of Ministers for tax exemptions. There's no way that's acceptable. The Finance Ministry monitors the procedures of tax exemptions by the Council of Ministers very closely. If a public trust is taking over the burden, the Ministry will look into it, and if it holds the terms, and it holds the assets, and if it divides a significant portion of its income for public service, around two-thirds of its income, it will offer it to the Council of Ministers. If the Council of Ministers approves, they will grant this exemption, then they will take advantage of the privileges required by this exemption, but when they lose the terms of exemption, the Ministry of Finance will offer it to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers' decision on exemption will be revoked. Now, that's not the law for the Yehilay Foundation, because it says it's the law, whether it takes advantage of the tax exemption, whether it goes to Europe, to America, to travel, to enjoy, to use it in representation spending, here, sometimes to a couple of boards, it's bad for health. It doesn't matter, it's not important, it's still going to benefit from the tax exemption, the citizen's tax tax, it's going to be donated to people in the Greenay Foundation, it's going to be donated, it's going to be donated, it's going to be donated to the Green Moon Society. This is not even in the kingdom, even the Ottoman sultans were law-abiding people. Today, there's a rule, a law, an unlawful administration, an understanding. Those are the Prime Minister's orders. Mr. Prime Minister has requested that this law be discussed immediately, and it will come out here. This is where I expressed the violation of the Constitution of the regulation of the Law on Publicisation. We find this wrong arrangement, which provides a legal basis for unconstitutional handouts. Let's make arrangements to repair the victim's victims because of the zoning arrangements, but let's not do any of the other levels that will legitimize unoffermental hand-offs after 1983. Yeah, I'm out of time. I had something to say, but I'll pick it up later. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0079par0318	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. In the name of his personal name, Mr. Musa Çam.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0080par0321	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. We're discussing Bag Code 463, which makes the amendment to Article 36, 23 and the amendment to the ordinance of the law. Of course, when the bag is the law, there are different issues in 23 laws and laws. I'd like to talk more about materials that impose a life-form. Conservativeness, national, spiritual values, institutions, ideas, customs and customs, is the ability to provide protection, survival, and mentality, even if they are old and rotten. However, religious conservativeism is the most difficult to overcome, most predisposed to bigotry, because it is rooted deep in the world of faith and based on fear of God. This is not only for Islam, but also for all heavenly religions. When the AKP came to power in 2002, it described itself as a conservative Democrat. In fact, he also wanted to use the Muslim democrat title. But neither the world nor Turkey's conjuncturals were yet suitable. Prime Minister Erdogan always said we took off our national vision shirt. Although he said it was obviously a hoax. While the AKP strongly criticised the so-called Kemalist public engineering and monosymmetry, which he complained and cursed, it began with the procedural engineering of the Sunni community on the basis of conservativeity, with its modern-day elephant rudeness in the Zuja shop. The cultural, ideological, class bases of the leading AKP staff, which cannot penetrate the deep world of religion and faith, are limited to superficial, stereotyped interpretations and practices, and the town's conservativeity. With women, with human bodies, with joy, with joy, with color, with much noise, without peace, every mortal will taste death on the door of the graveyards. The mindset that leads to faith, God, life, hope, and death is not as a fear, but as a mental state. The AKP makes it a shameful, sinful business to drink in secret, including the laws, regulations, practices, such as banning liquor in Turkish Airlines, which it cannot say. The AKP humiliates and aims the drinkers as needy people with bad habits. On the other hand, it makes a small happy minority special, only in certain places, in luxury hotels, restaurants, tourist facilities, by pricing it with extraordinary taxes. Are you defending taverns, trying to poison youth with alcohol, ignoring the health of the people? But we're not gonna let that go. Yeah, I'm defending the taverns and the booze because it's not just booze. It's part of a colorful, chirping, multi-sounding, creative culture that turns it into artistic creativity, predicts socialization on the equal plane of men and women in all areas, that predicts that men and women are together in all areas. In this culture of life that I'm involved in, of course, it's a personal choice to drink, drink, drink, drink. Moreover, there are more drinkers in this country than there are in this country. No one can be forced to drink, but no one can be forbidden to drink. Drinking is forbidden according to religious conservative interpretation. That's why it's forbidden. No one dares seek refuge in the team, in the way they go around the back for different reasons. The restrictions and bans on this matter are an uncontroversial religious ideological imposition. What conservative gentlemen and women here want to do is not protect their youth and public health from alcohol or fight alcoholism, but to redesign society in the framework of their own beliefs and conservative culture. If the goal was to protect health, the type of coke known to be much more harmful is acidic and additive beverages. Moreover, Turkey is not a country with drinking problems such as Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Russia or Ireland. Alcohol consumption per person doesn't exceed 1.5 liters per year. The rate of traffic accidents caused by alcohol has been 4.5 per cent in all traffic accidents, but in Turkey during 11 years of AKP rule, business killings have found 12,000 in Turkey, on average 1,100 people lose their lives every year, but in return, no regulations, no law offers are against us. Moreover, both observation and detection are a danger of obesity, as young generations are heavily addicted to cocaine, acidic and additive beverages and fast food, not alcohol. I'm afraid there's no arrangement for that. There's no need for long talk, not just in the matter of alcohol, but in many aspects of life, but in the effort to design society within its own beliefs, ideology, and life cultures when they come to power today. This new sense of community engineering and custody that has become evident in Prime Minister Erdogan -- the flock that should be driven by the society, in an understanding that he sees himself as the head or shepherd responsible for this flock -- is the understanding of religious conservativeism, which has no respect for other people's way of life. The Padişah, president, will, of course, preach to us how we live, how we think, how we behave, by looking out for our well - being; the right way is the right way, the right way, and everyone must follow it! He decides how we live, what is beneficial to us, what is harmful to us, how many children a woman should bear, how we should behave, what we should eat, what we should drink! In short, the Prime Minister is great, and the nation is his servant, and his understanding is imposed upon the people, and he is dominated. We are strongly against it. Congressmans, the Constitution does not end in writing freedom of conscience, freedom of faith. Freedom of faith and conscience means no interference in the way of one's faith. Raqi means that he who asks for it should drink it, whether he wants it to be opened, whether he wants it to be opened, whether he wants it to be made a choice, or whether he wants it to be used as he wants it to be, not interfered with by the state, but not interfered with it. Your faith may prohibit drinking, order women to cover themselves, consider it a sin for men and women to be equal in public life, to be seen together, to enjoy themselves together. I respect your faith, your life, your morality, even if I don't think it's right, and I don't think I have the right to get involved, but I don't have to accept your beliefs, to accept your prohibitions, to live according to your imagination, and you can't compel anyone. If I commit a crime against society, the punishment is written in the existing laws. If I act out of order enough to disturb the environment, I will face public reproach or exclusion. The job of the state, the government, is to protect the public order, the freedom of everyone, the way everyone thinks it's right. You can be encouraging in certain ways, but you can't be prohibitive. And when it's banned, it changes the name of the regime, it's called fascism. And don't mind me saying "me, me," but I'll let you know that's the sound of millions. At least half of this community is tired of wearing shirts that the community engineers have carved in their own projects, not in the land of conservative political Islamism, with deep traces of the sophisticated tradition, wearing neoliberal urba, but in the land of heart-Muslimism. The majority of this community, the faithful, the faithless, now want to live freely in peace. When I have prepared the iftar table of my faithful friend, when he prepares my locksmith table with the same width of heart, when I can fight for the freedom of the faith of the believers, when they can fight against all the ables and dictators for my freedom to believe, then true peace will come to this country. Drinking, alcohol, of course, it's just a symbol, it's just a metaphor. A feast for those who understand, and a buttermilk for those who do not understand. For centuries, the inhabitants of this land have known how to put the water in yogurt and make the buttermilk into raki and to make the feast, and they will know again. I salute you all with the desire to live in a free and democratic country, despite all the impositions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0081par0335	What's the holiday got to do with it, Congressman?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0082par0336	Thank you, Mr. Pine. On behalf of Isparta MP Süziya Sadi Bilgiç. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0083par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Laws. Of course, when we look at this bag of legislation, we make changes in a lot of different laws until we reach Law No. 633, Law No. 633 of the Ministry of Diet Affairs, Law on Alcoholic Drinks, and another Law on Tobacco, Alcohol Markets. But, of course, there's a perception that there's a completely alcohol-related arrangement in public. I've also heard the speeches of our dear congressman friends here. Of course, it has to be said that when we look at alcohol consumption, it's absolutely not right to say or think that there's a system based on prohibitions, or to express it. Here, there is never, ever, a provision for any restrictions on the rights, laws, and the freedom of drinking of our drinking citizens. To reflect it this way, to describe it this way, to create such a perception is certainly not the right attitude. It's not illegal to talk about it here, but it's possible to talk about rules. Yes, as in all civilized countries, rules are set in our country for alcohol consumption and use and for their sales and marketing, advertising, promotion. Mr. Akçay, who was just speaking here, who is a member of the Commission, gave us some figures. So today, in 2012, he talked about the consumption of 1 billion 127 million litres of alcohol, talking about serious increases in alcohol use. It's just that even these data... they've also expressed here that the age of Greenbear's alcohol use is down to 11 years old. Of course, when we look at it like this, when we see it like this, we see here how true it is to bring some rules, its reality and its foundation. We went to the Constitution 58. That's right, according to the 58th article of our Constitution, the State takes the necessary measures to protect young people from alcoholism, drugs, guilt, gambling, and such bad habits and ignorance. In fact, when you look at it, it is a right, right, and legal arrangement that is completely based on our Constitution. However, serious regulations have been made after the law, or rather after the proposal came to our Commission, in the work of the lower commission and in the work of the upper commission, along with all the members of the Commission, the ruling-Muslim deputy friends, as well as the removal of the open parts of this law to interpretations and making it more practical. Now, in the General Assembly phase, you have been offered this offer to your opinions, to the opinions of our valued MPs, and ultimately, as it emerges from the General Assembly, it will be legalized here in its final form. When we look at it, what do we do? There's no way to talk about alcohol abuse or alcohol abuse, no way, no limitation and no such ban. But we ban advertising alcohol, we limit advertising for consumers, we ban it. However, at the point of international residency fairs, we have also brought with us the opportunity to promote our companies, our producers, in the industry. Dear President, valued lawmakers, in addition to this, a number of issues that may be considered an intervention in commercial life, as well as in the Commission's work, have been removed from the proposal text, corrected. For example, there was a discount issue, and there was a ruling that there was no discount. This has been eliminated because it is thought to be a direct intervention in commercial life. And again, here's the phone, there's the TV, there's some environments like the Internet, and there's been an arrangement about that -- but we've taken out these electronic environments -- and now, in the General Assembly, there's something that says it can't be done through the press release.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0084par0349	Are you going to broadcast the beer commercial on TV? Will the beer commercial be on TV or not? It won't be done.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0083par0350	Sir? Advertisement?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0084par0351	Will the beer commercial be on TV?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0083par0352	No beer ads, of course, yes. Other than that, there was an outside concept, outside the system, which was also open to interpretation, which we arranged as non-compliance, which, by interpretation, could lead to wrong practices. By making arrangements on export products, we have made a stretch at the point where we do not look for a number of health-related warnings in export products in those products, which we have brought in different from products to consume within Turkey. Of course, there were limits being introduced to tourism-certified businesses -- housing facilities -- and we protected them. We've also brought protection to existing businesses that sell alcoholic beverages, open alcohol, or retail alcohol. So they'll be able to maintain their rights, these rights of sale that have been earned. My dear friends, of course my time is narrow- it's always been locked in alcohol, but I want to make it clear...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0085par0357	I'm over 18 years old, Mr. Brainy, so where do I choose which beer to drink?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0083par0358	... once again, as in all civilized and modern countries, both in Turkey and in our country, the terms of the sale of alcoholic beverages and the rules of them are set, and their limits are drawn. Other than that, an intervention in the right of life, an intervention in the way of life, an intervention in social life, is never, ever at stake. I want to make this clear. My dear friends, one of the important arrangements made here is the provision for tax incentives to RD activities. With the amendment to Law 193, these incentives have been extended for more than a decade, and the doctorates of the staff here have been given serious support for R&D studies, with an exception to the income tax of up to 90 per cent to 80 per cent, and others to 80 per cent. Important traffic arrangements have arrived. This, of course, is an arrangement from our Ministry of Interior, which we have made in the Commission under the request of our Security General Directorate. Here we have made certain arrangements for the Road Traffic Law under the Constitutional Court's decisions. At the same time, there have been regulations that reduce bureaucracy, remove existing problems in practice, and deter alcohol and drug use. One of the most basic problems faced earlier in practice was that our police were tied up against citizens who didn't want to be checked with a D.U.I. However, in addition to the regulation, the sanctions for citizens who do not take this test will be applied to citizens who use 1 per cent of alcohol, as well as 1 per cent of alcohol. Other than that, the current administrative fines or driver's licenses have been seized, as well as the way to judge our citizens, who drive drunkly on 1 promilin, according to the Turkish Penal Code provisions, and this is a perfectly accurate arrangement to bring in a deterrent provisions that seriously threaten human life -- and Mr. Akchay has given data -- in extremely serious proportions, in order to prevent the use of alcohol, which has played a key role in traffic accidents together rapidly, in order to limit it. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I once again wish to express that the regulations made here never, ever interfere in a way of life, that there is no interference in a social life, that there is no interference in social life, that there is never a criminal mentality, just as in all civilized countries, there is an adjustment to the limits of alcohol sales, as in all civilized countries.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0086par0365	Thank you, wise guy. Congressmans, we're moving on to the QA section. For 20 minutes, I'll take ten minutes to ask questions, and I'll give you a minute. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0087par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the number of drug addicts and alcoholics who have been treated according to women, men and age groups in our country by the end of 2012, and how has this number been observed over the past decade? Second, is there a country in the world with higher tax rates than Turkey in terms of taxes on alcoholic beverages? Do you think that in an environment where tax increases can't reduce alcohol consumption, a number of ads and advertising bans in this law are sufficient to reduce alcohol consumption? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0088par0373	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0089par0375	No.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0088par0376	No. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0090par0378	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: Medical staff, particularly physicians, are expecting improvements in pension and other rights. Is there a study in your Ministry of Health about improving the rights of health personnel? My second question: What kind of drug abuse studies are planned and done, particularly as the Ministry of Health? Third: AMATEM (AMAMEM), a treatment center for alcohol and substance abuse, is expressed in many staff shortages, including psychologists and psychiatrists. Are there any studies of these? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0091par0383	Thank you, Mr. Right. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0092par0385	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how has official data on bad habits, such as alcohol, drugs, guilt rates and gambling, changed as of January 1, 2003 and January 1, 2013, as of January 1, 2013? Has there ever been any work done by your government or your Ministry on the causes of the excess increase? Did your government's economic policies have anything to do with it? What measures do you intend to take? Do you have any preparation for other laws similar to these? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0093par0388	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0094par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. Some districts of Çankırı have significant difficulties. The criminal organization established earlier in Kızırmak district has been removed. Citizens complain that an expert doctor in a public hospital cannot be provided a dentist. As in many other counties, most of the way to the village is stable. Leech road divide, the Red-Sungur road is one lane. In Şabanözı district, streets and streets have become unusable due to infrastructure work. Citizens can't leave the industry. When will these studies be over? Again, the lack of social facilities and parks that the county can benefit from is a major flaw. Dr. Sami Baran Hospital doesn't have a doctor for orthopedics and extensions. The maternity ward isn't even available, the hospital is neglected. In addition, it is said that Cerkeş Prison will be closed. After the courts, the closure of prisons means that the districts will be reduced and eliminated. We want the government to come up with a solution to these matters as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0095par0396	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0096par0398	Thank you, Mr. President. While our Minister of Finance is here, I'd like to ask: The original offer had a 100-meter limitation, and then it was said that it had been softened, that the victim was relieved, and that it was said that they would continue their activities, but they wouldn't hand over these places. These places have a very high rate of rotation. Maybe a few days before this law comes out, you're taking away the opportunity to re-integrate this place from someone who's paid for it by paying a very high rate of time, paying for air. Especially after a series of loan purchases, maybe after a few years of running it, it could also lead to the bankruptcy of an operator who's thinking about closing the loan and closing it. People are not going to be able to give up now when they can inherit something that's worth a lot of time to their child that's worth a lot of air money. Wouldn't that be a direct intervention in commercial life and a very serious victim?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0095par0400	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0097par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd especially like to ask Mr. Finance Minister. Mr. Secretary, there's a gap in the Law of Publicisation, the current law, which is that when the appreciation commission pays the price, the citizen goes to court -- you know -- when he's not happy with it. At the price of the court, I mean, without conflict, when the court decides, the verdict is final. The sentence of the Bedele goes to the Supreme Court. After paying the price, for example, the value pays $5 per square meter, and when the court gives $10, it pays the citizens the money without waiting for the Supreme Court. After the file goes to the court, the price of the square meter is high. When you say that, the lower court breaks the case, and when the Supreme Court obeys the judge's decision, this time, the state grants it to the citizen for the money he has overpaid, Mr. Minister. Therefore, Turkey has huge, deep problems, so the citizens face the state. In this regard, wouldn't you consider putting a price on a bank account with the highest interest for three months until the Supreme Court, which is a non-controversial cost, passed by the lower court, comes from the Supreme Court? There's a serious problem.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0095par0404	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0098par0406	Mr. Secretary, every bag of laws, every amendment, there's always a variety of positive things about places of worship. And in this bag of legislation, there's a variety of things about Koran courses, places of worship, mosques. Millions of Flames living in this country pay their taxes, doing their duty to the government. Can you think of any way to help the Alevi worship their temples for centuries or to give them their rights? Is that what you're thinking? If you don't think about it, do you think that these taxpayers have been unfair to Alevi, who have been secretly, sometimes open, sometimes paying the price? And as for the houses, are they not a house of worship or a house of worship? What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0099par0410	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0100par0412	Thank you, Mr. President. In February, the media reported that some people, institutions or companies who own yachts sold the diesel to farmers for four TL, and used it to farm their own farms. I have submitted a six-point question to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, asking whether the report is true or not, and if the developments are the result of the AKP's agricultural policies? However, the ministry's response after its time has passed is not among the duties of our Ministry for routine and complaints about the sale of diesel in this way. I'd like to ask Mr. Finance Minister: Is this a simple case of gas smuggling? Is there no reason for our farmers to supply diesel this way? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0101par0416	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0102par0418	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to share two statistics with you. According to a report published in 2012 in the BBC, 26 per cent of the drivers were drunk during inspections in Tehran in May 2012. In the 2008 inspections in London, only 9 per cent of drivers were drunk. This shows that illegal regimes increase alcohol use and the rate of alcoholic drivers. Again, the most intense heroin-using community in the world, unfortunately, our neighboring Iranian society, lives in a country of between 3 and 4 million heroin addicts. Now, these numbers show that if we implement the same banned approach in Turkey, we will cause increases in Turkey that we do not desire for both alcohol use and drug use.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0103par0422	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0104par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country, how many liters per person is the annual consumption of strong alcoholic beverages? Again, how many liters per person do soft alcoholic beverages consume per year? What are the consumption of the world and European averages? Given these consumption averages, do you think the consumption of alcohol in our country poses a threat to public health? If our country's consumption averages are very low -- and we know it's low -- according to these countries that we're going to compare -- what is the purpose of the restrictions and bans in this law? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0105par0427	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Türeli, here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0106par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. The recent bag of laws show that all of them contain provisions related to Turkey's Yeşelay Society. With these provisions, we see that both the area of duty and authority of the Turkey's Greenay Society has been expanded and its resources increased. Now, the last law proposal we're talking about is a foundation in addition to Turkey's Yeşelay Society, and the provisions here provide the foundation with a wide range of tax exceptions and exemptions. That's not enough, but a serious grant from the Ministry of Health budget has been decided. Why was this needed? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0107par0432	Thank you, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0108par0433	Isn't it our turn, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0109par0434	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, it's not my turn, but I'd like to ask you something.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0107par0435	Mr. Turkkan, ask me again if we have enough time. Don't limit the minister's say-so. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0110par0437	Thank you, Mr. President. So if you'll excuse me, I'll at least try to answer the questions that enter the finance area. We're way up in the tax range on alcoholic beverages. I'll tell you this: After Finland in the tax burden of beer, Turkey in the second place, we're in the fifth place after Ireland, England, Finland and Sweden. We're in the 2nd place after Sweden, in high-alcoholic drinks, such as whiskey, and in vodka-like drinks. So as you can see, our country is very high in taxing alcoholic beverages. Mr. Right, he asked me a question about the health workers' rights. The Ministry of Finance is usually looking into the subject of equity. Our concerned minister could have responded, but I'll tell you this: we don't have an agenda on rights right now, but we do have demands. There are demands that could bring serious burden to the Social Security Agency. So we haven't been able to take a step in that direction until today. When we organise rights for a certain population, we face similar demands from many people, because there are demands from many ministries at the same time, from teachers -- so I'm not going to go into samples. So, if you're going to do it, you have to go into a wholesale, holistic approach, just like it was done earlier. At this point, we don't see it as positive, just in case there are some serious problems to be made. There's a question from Mr. Special, whether or not this inheritance will lead to a loss of time or not. Of course it's a victim. So, it's a problem, but, of course, the legislator is going to make that arrangement. So that's the current arrangement. Of course, if our coven presents any other kind of will, it could be different. Mr. -- if I remember correctly -- it was Flagtutan, he had a question about nationalization. You haven't finished the question, but what I understand from you is, can these nationalization funds be parked temporarily in a bank account, so can they be deposited there? Is it possible to pay after the trial's over, to compensate for a citizen's sacrifice? There's nothing wrong with us, but the truth is, I don't agree with all the legislation in that sense, so I think we should take a look at it. As for the question of Mr. Agababa, our dear friend will know that, as you can see, it is not my area of expertise to determine whether the temples are a temple, but rather, if there is an institution of expertise, it should be associated with the Diet, and it should be looked at in that frame. If I didn't misunderstand the question of Mr. Demiröz, there's non-SET fuel that we provide for these marine vehicles. There is the issue of the abuse of this non-OTV fuel supply.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0111par0444	There's that. And farmers.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0110par0445	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I get the point. Now, we've taken a close look at that subject now, and we're taking precautions on it. You have to admit that the taxes on fuel products are high in Turkey, a product we import, an important source of income for the budget. So in some areas, of course, we offer a number of possibilities, considering the country's competitiveness, but the abuse of this is not something that we would accept, of course, but the Tax Control Board is doing all of its reviews right now. Oh, as for our farmer, we provide diesel support in a certain frame.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0112par0448	Very small sums, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0110par0449	If there's a chance, maybe there's more to it, but you know the agricultural budget, it's about, you know, $13 billion in total. There's a question from Mr. Türeli, a budget from the Ministry of Health, where there are provisions for the Green Moon Society in the bag bill, which is probably because of this drug, alcohol, is an additional opportunity to strengthen your hand in the struggle to reduce such addictions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0113par0451	The mission area is expanding. You mean.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0110par0452	The bidding area, or rather, our friends who bid, probably thought about it in this frame. I've answered as many questions as possible, thank you very much. Now, I'm handing it over to Mr. Health Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0114par0455	Mr. President, first of all, dear friends, the question of Mr. Akçay is: What is the rate of drug and alcohol abuse at the end of 2012, and what is the increase in the last decade? • As a result of the studies of alcohol use by various institutions in our country: 2008, 2010, 2011, TİİİK and ÜBİM. In 2008, 10,9 per cent in 2008; 12.6 per cent in 2010; 14.3% increase in 2011. On average, there's 13.7% of the health ministry's chronic disease thing that hasn't been published yet. I'll introduce you to the distribution of men and women so it doesn't take time. Over the years, there has been no significant increase in alcohol use per person. While alcohol does not increase in liters, a partial increase in drinking and decline in use will be observed, with the contribution of academics and NGOs from universities and NGOs, the Alcohol Control Programme and Action Plan will begin to be implemented in 2013. We believe that when these law-enforcement clauses are legalized, they will contribute greatly to our fight against alcohol. Again, it's Mr. Right's question about the AMATEM. In Turkey, the number of AMATEM centers was 22, the total number of beds was 602, and 3,264 people were trained in 16 cities in substance abuse centres. The number of patients who have been treated: 160,000 people from standing have received clinic services, and the number of patients who have been treated in bed is 3,000. Again, according to the research report of the Turkish Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, which operates under the Ministry of Interior's Trafficking and Organised Crime Agency in drug use, the rate of use is 1.6 in 2010 and 2.2 in 2012. Of course, our Finance Minister made the assessment of personnel and autonomy rights. Other than that, Mr. Öğüt, Çankırı, Kızırık, and other state hospital physicians' deficits, orthopedics, dentists and other staff shortages, we will return to them, but it is true that our many hospitals lack specialist physicians is a reality of Turkey. We'll try to get them to a better place by revisiting their efficiency and distribution as much as possible. With the numbers in Tehran, Mr. Erdemir is giving the numbers in Lausanne, the numbers in Iran are high at work. Now, of course, what's important here is to make it healthy, rather than illegal. See, Italy has reduced its alcohol consumption by 50 percent in its struggle with alcohol over the last 20 years, so it's half.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0115par0463	We're at the end of our time, but I'll give you one more minute to finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0114par0465	So what's important here is to make arrangements, to protect our young people and children from these bad habits, and to make the arrangements as healthy as possible, or to be considered as a banned mindset, I honestly don't think it's right. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit02spe0115par0467	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0115par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 463. The commission and the government are in place. Let's begin the interviews of section one. Chapter one...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0116par0006	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Sir, you know there's been an argument here today. He informed the General Assembly of an important matter, the head of the CIT Commission. Now we've got the written-ins. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to inform the General Assembly of today's incident with the nameless blasphemy and assault. Here's the transcripts. Because there is a serious lack of information and misinformation.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0115par0008	Are you telling me about the reports on the commission?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0116par0009	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0115par0010	That's what you said. The way you guys were talking about in those reports...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0116par0011	Yes, the death threat...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0115par0012	... We'd rather you didn't read the speeches from here, to be honest.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0117par0013	It's not a squirrel, sir. It's a threat.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0116par0014	It's not a squirrel, sir. Here...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0115par0015	And if such talks have taken place, I think that under the roof of this House, every member of parliament here will speak in proper Turkish and in accordance with the discretion of this General Assembly. And I condemn those who speak like that from here again. They need to have an argument and a proper conversation. I think so.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0116par0016	Mr. President, when something similar happened to Mr. Mehmet Metiner, Mr. Metiner spoke to the General Assembly for nine minutes, sir, about such an incident. If you'll excuse me, I'd like a three-minute word to inform the General Assembly. Just so our lawmakers know what's going on in the reports.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0115par0017	Well, don't argue, and if you don't, I'd appreciate it if you didn't. Here you go, sir. Don't let too much bullying get to the point.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0118par0022	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been briefed by both Commissioner Fahrettin Poyraz and I in connection with today's events at the CSI Commission. What we said there was that we had some allegations, there were reports, there were documents, there were arguments, and we told us there was a threat. The commissioner said there is no such thing. Now, I'm reading from the Commission reports: Don't ask me for trouble! If you look at me like that, I'll shoot you. What am I gonna look at you for? Mr. Osman, don't. Oh, come on. Osman Örent, what will I look at you for? Look at him, I'll shoot him if I look at him! Aykut Erdoğdu (Istanbul) What are you staring at? What about looking across the street? Aykut Erdoğdu (Istanbul) Who are you threatening? Why should Ahmet Yeni (Samsun) look at you? The president, friends, please... Osman Örent (Sirt) I'll shoot when I look! That's how the speeches roll, and Haydar Akar says to the president, during the debate with Fahrettin Poyraz: you shoot, you kill, that's politics. That's the saddest thing, the commissioner says, "Of course, of course, you started it." Dear friends, this curse is here. I will not repeat this blasphemy here because it does not suit the bench of this House. We just went to the Speaker, we told him the situation, we're trying to do our duty. I want this to be known: don't let them put their best behind this death threat, including the lawmakers. We're doing our best not to cause social chaos, but we're not going under that threat. From now on, we will continue our opposition by making it heavy. We will not insult anyone, but we will have a more decisive, effective opposition to the Commission. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0119par0040	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. [[Continue]] The first part covers the 1st to 18th article. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on chapter one, Slap Congressman Reşat Right. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0120par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first chapter of Law Proposal 463, and I salute the High Assembly. Of course, we're dealing with a Justice and Development Party classic. A bag of laws, again, rushed to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Sure, there's a lot of stuff in there. Each of these substances had to be discussed separately. It hasn't been seen separately. In fact, about the same law proposal -- that is, part of the law -- there was a law proposal from a friend of ours in connection with some of the articles of this law. The proposal of the law of Ali Oz was not discussed either, I'm afraid. On 13 September 2012, our friend proposed such a law to be discussed and legalized in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Even that friend of ours's offer of law is unfortunately not included in this law. So we're dealing with a law proposal that's being rushed out. We, the National Movement Party Group, are not opposed to all of the articles of this law, we believe that some of its clauses should be removed, legalized, but we strongly oppose some of them. Congressmans, a pardon is on the agenda in Article 1 of the proposal. However, it is an important issue, which should be discussed by the Justice Commission. Again, there are very important substances related to alcohol, addiction, which must also be discussed in national education commissions, as well as in health-related commissions. However, none of this, unfortunately, has been discussed. In addition, alcohol - related regulations only cover bans and penalties. So the educational departments of the subject are neglected in the direction of individual fundamental rights and freedoms. Sadly, no regulation is seen within this law to protect young people from drugs, gambling, and other bad habits. But the subject of addiction is very important. In our country, in recent years, it has now begun to take its place outside our country as the first topic of addiction throughout the world. The following is: "Operation" is not just about substance abuse, but also about Internet addiction, cell phone addiction, and television addictions about various subjects. However, addiction is a very important issue of the Ministry of Health, which is a very serious issue of health. However, there has been no mention of drug abuse or addiction in any way related to others. Of course, I would like to point out that the subject of addiction, which is an important topic of our country and the world, unfortunately, has been left to the very altruistic institutions of the state, such as TUBIM in our country. TUBIM is the Turkish Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. Congrats on all the officials who work here. They're actually working really hard, so there's an image that almost only this institution is running the drug fight. Of course, NGOs, many NGOs, including Greeny, are also involved in this very serious work. I congratulate all the people who work there, all of our NGOs, and wish them all the best. Members of lawmakers, alcohol habits do great harm not only to themselves but also to the environment. Also, alcohol abuse, which turns into addiction every day, is unfortunately the cause of many diseases in a person. Alcohol and substance abuse is a public disease. At the beginning of the damage done by alcohol abuse to humans and the environment, alcohol - drunk accidents occur. A drunk person's accident is inadmissible at all. Unfortunately, in our country, people are drinking alcohol and drinking alcohol, and they're getting into cars that can't stand, and there's been a lot of accidents, and our people are getting hurt. So no one, no one, has the right to do more damage to himself. There's no freedom, and there's no excuse for that at all. Punishments, but punishments must be deterrent, they must be aggravated; people must not face such a situation. In addition, excessive alcohol abuse encourages crime and can lead to many cases leading to suicides and murders. The beginning of many habits, unfortunately, can be an addiction to alcohol. In particular, research is the beginning of alcohol addiction in a drug habit such as cannabis, heroin. Again, in our country, about 15 million people use alcohol, according to research. They also have around 5 million addicts who consume alcohol all the time. It's interesting that the number is increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by increasing by Members of lawmakers, alcohol use and addiction are also a major health problem and a problem for university students. Look, there's been a recent investigation at the University of the Aegean. 76% of the students have been diagnosed with alcohol abuse, 8.8% are alcoholic, and 14% have been known to abuse alcohol in a very bad way. It has also been found that alcohol addiction is higher among students in the 17-19-year-old group and is lower in students living in the dorm. As a result, we can say that alcohol use is going on at a very high level in college teens, and unfortunately, very quickly, it also suggests that measures should be taken at least. Smoking and drug use are increasing in our country as well as alcohol. It is the constitutional duty of the government to protect human health. The state is bound to take every precaution, but unfortunately, with every passing day, why is alcohol, smoking and drug use and addiction increasing? The answer must be revealed. The measures are insufficient. This increase leads to serious dimensions, and we also face heavy situations that have no turning back. Therefore, governments and relevant ministries must not interfere with the measures taken, and must be serious about the matter. Civil society organizations, state institutions must work together, the issue must be resolved. No one interferes with people's free will. Anyone can drink, eat, use anything they want. However, the most important thing in health is not to be infected and protected. This is the way addiction is: people shouldn't have to deal with addictive substances or events, they shouldn't say anything at once. All kinds of addictions can't happen at once. Unfortunately, this process begins, which is very important for every family, everyone, to follow it very carefully, and to advise their children. When it comes to this, there are important tasks available to people outside themselves, to schools, to administrators. By taking care of the family child, he must not make all kinds of bad habits himself, then make his recommendations. What can parents in the family recommend to their children and other people that they can succeed if they are addicted to alcohol, cigarettes, drugs? Governments and governments must also care about the issue and support protective practice. People must be told in a variety of dimensions that smokers will not be able to breathe in their future lifetimes, that they may encounter various diseases from chronic bronchitis to cancer. This story can be impressive with media coverage, television shows. It can also be explained that alcohol use, addictions, especially heavy use, can cause severe liver disease, even cirrhosis, and many diseases can also be the key triggering factor until stomach gastritis and ulcers. There are AMAMEM, alcohol and substance abuse treatment centres established by the state for substance abuse in our country. I've just asked Mr. Secretary, and they've made some really big and beautiful statements about him. However, these AMATEM centres, members of parliament, must be supported. AMAMEM centres, in particular, should be supported in terms of numbers and quality. There are problems at the psychologist's point, at the point of psychiatric experts, at the working staff point. Especially when people who have been treated there are sent home, or when they're sent to their own centers, they're faced with the same situation, so a tracking system must be put into place. And that's the main issue in our country, so it's about addiction, and our government must have a very serious policy, and it has to have a very serious fighting system. See, research commissions have been set up in the past tense. These commissions have also done some very important work, but we haven't been able to convince the Justice and Development Party's officials. From time to time, we've brought up the issues here, so come, let's get these laws out. All of the topics proposed there are important issues, which need to be legalized. Who suffers the loss of success? Our people are pulling in. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So at this point, he says, serious measures must be taken, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0121par0073	Thank you, Mr. Right. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Izmir MP Rahmi Küreli of Love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0122par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the first chapter of Law Proposal 463. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, we're dealing with another bag of law today. It's a judgment that we've seen a lot of lately, and it's almost as if it's from the cause, and it's become this. Now, in this last bag of legislation, there are 36 clauses, along with the executive and executive clause, but there are 23 amendments to the law and the law. We see in it a variety of topics are being organised from alcohol bans to tax exemptions and exceptions, from publicisation to R&D, from the chairmanship of the Religious Affairs to Turkey's Greenay Society. Well, there's no way to accept that, so if there's a law within itself that's consistent, there might be a bag of laws, but let's keep it consistent in its own way. We seriously resent the fact that so many different substances have come our way. Another thing, not as a bill of law, but as an offer of the law, this bag is the law. So the fact that a bill has come before us, the norm of the law, means that much more detailed, comprehensive work has been done on it. From bureaucracy, you've been widely informed when you look at all branches of bureaucracy, all institutions, in a broad sense. There is also the possibility that regulatory impact analysis has been done according to Law 5018. Unfortunately, we don't get any more regulatory analysis of the bill lately. So we don't have a chance to know what the laws that come our way bring, what the state's revenues, expenses and budgets, what they're bringing in and what they're bringing in. Same here, we're dealing with this. I've just mentioned that, although there are very different provisions, this bag has basically sealed the offer of alcohol-related restrictions and prohibitions. So I would like to discuss my views on this particular issue, as the Republican People's Party, with the support of the Constitution and the legal norms. Now look, dear MPs, what does our Constitution say about Article 58, titled the protection of youth? It says: "The state takes the necessary measures to protect young people from alcoholism, drugs, guilt, gambling, and other bad habits. " I mean, sitting around, that's alcoholism, that's alcoholism, that's drinking too much, that's addiction, when you look at alcoholism. It's normal, of course, to protect youth from alcoholism, but it's a law-equipped, law-proposal, which, unfortunately, is not to protect youth from alcoholism, it's to prevent the entire community from drinking alcohol. On the other hand, let's check with the World Health Organization. The World Health Organization, see, in all its reports, the valued lawmakers use the expression "harmful use" in English about the use of alcohol, so if we translate "harmful use" in Turkish, we can say "overuse" or "inflicted use of alcohol," but the same World Health Organization says smoking should not be consumed, smoking is harmful. And we also know from all scientific research that it's obvious, it's subjective to alcohol use, or it can use it, and that it's good for health, both in the World Health Organization and in many other academic circles outside of it. Now, on the other hand, of course, there are dimensions that concern one's basic rights and freedoms. Now, the 12th article of the Constitution states that everyone has fundamental rights and freedoms that are untouchable, untouchable, non-touchable and indispensable. This means, dear friends, that one can make decisions about himself and be free to choose. The person is not only a working, sleeping creature; he is also a social being; he will have a good time; he will have a good time; and while he is doing this, he can decide for himself what to do - whether to drink or do something else; and no one has the right to teach him reason, to break the law about what to do with him, or what to do with him. A person can enjoy, enjoy, enjoy, enjoy, and drink, as a matter of fact, as long as it does not violate the integrity of his body and the integrity of others, and as long as there is no crime. I mean, just as no one can be forced to drink, no one can be forced to drink; otherwise, it will be the free will of the individual, not the drink. On the other hand, socialization has changed from one person to another, from society to society, and through time, serious changes have occurred. When you go to different parts of the world, they all have their own culture of eating and drinking, and they grow from the region to the region; it's often associated with products that grow in that region, because it ultimately creates a fundamental ingredient in the culture of eating and drinking; a very serious one about how to do it, how to produce it, how to consume it. Anywhere in the world, any library, any bookstore you go to, you'll find a very large ingredient in alcoholic beverages. How to drink, what it is, what it has to do with culture, I mean, culture is also about eating and drinking, friends. How can we think otherwise? Drinking is part of our culture. All right, let's get into our old literature, and when we look at the literature of the court, you'll find the phrases, the phrases written on the drink. That's how it was during the Republic. I mean, what did an Orhan Veli say in his poem? If I were a fish in a bottle of raki, he'd have finished his poem. And there's a very serious -- when we look at it -- how to drink, what to drink, who to drink, what to talk about. I mean, we don't say that everyone should drink here. But drinking is a person's personal choice, and only the person responsible for it is himself, and other than that, no one has the right to interfere in this area. To impose on society how to live, what to think, what to eat, what to drink is an abusive approach, which we firmly oppose and continue to oppose. On the other hand, there are economic dimensions to the issue, so when you look at the sector of alcohol production today, the production area, the number of employees employed there, you have to think with the side industries again, there's agriculture, there's tourism, there's trade life, there's a vast area of interest when you look at it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0123par0088	What about the vineyards, the vineyards? Where will the vineyards go? What's he gonna plant? He's gonna plant tea?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0122par0089	What about the vineyards? How are we going to do the vintage festivals? And in the same way, in terms of tax, we see that our valued representatives have a remarkable size. Now, look, there are grapes in the agriculture industry, and you can sell them out when you buy them, but when you make them wine, you add them to five, to ten. So one of the biggest problems in Turkey is raising value in Turkey, agriculture, industry. In this respect, it's also important for the agricultural sector. The tourism industry will be seriously affected by these practices. Foreign tourists who come to Turkey will also have a serious negative for domestic tourists. In the same way, it will bring serious restrictions on our tradesman. It should also be known that the drinking industry contributes around $9 billion annually to the country's budget, including the VAT, VAT and income tax. Mr. President, we have entered from the First Amendment, from Article 58, which our Constitution has imposed on the state; let's continue -- the duty of protecting youth from alcohol addiction is already being carried out in today's Turkey. As a matter of fact, it was established to monitor and oversee these activities with the production of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, domestic and foreign trade, the establishment and establishment of alcoholic beverages. On the other hand, it is under the authority of the municipality's private administrations outside the municipality and the mujavir area, as well as a license to open a drinking place and a work permit. At the same time, one can also obtain liquor licenses from our country's trade rooms and trade rooms, given permissions from the Tobacco, Tobacco Mamuls, and the Association of Alcoholic Boozes to sell alcohol, and there are many regulations on the subject. Although it is alleged that restrictions were imposed on the production and consumption of alcohol, not on the use of alcohol, but also on the promotion of alcohol, these serious bans on advertising, production and consumption. This is the freedom and the freedom of contract for everyone in Article 48 of the Constitution to work in any area they wish. It is also against your rule. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0124par0099	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. Adana MP Murat Bozlak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0125par0103	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the first chapter of Law Proposal 463. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers were in the form of legislation and proposals brought to the agenda of the General Assembly during the 24th Legislature, and proposed by AKP MPs, which are defined by the law by the law shall be passed by many laws with one or two articles. Our government and AKP MP friends have made it a habit. First of all, I'd like to point out that this application is not correct. It's highly ill-advised in terms of law-enforcement. Changing one or two articles of different laws, even one joke, is at risk of breaking the logic of each law itself. Besides, this kind of bag of laws is considered highly questionable by the community. Many wonder what is the purpose of changing just one joke or one clause of a law. At a point where there is no logical explanation, it is increasingly common among citizens to believe that the bill and proposals are intended to benefit the allies or to remove them from the distress of their allies. This is not a situation for the government and for the lawmakers who have bids, that will be a plus. Dear lawmakers, the proposal of the law, according to us, appears to have been issued by AKP MPs at the request of the government, not as a government bill, in the opinion that a serious public opinion will attract and cause serious debates. We see that when the law proposal is fully examined, the government and the AKP are clearly involved in the political line followed by Turkey, reflecting the government's mentality, its current outlook on life. Due to previous payments to the chairman and members of the board of the bail fund, the bail bondsman's body has been changed by Article 1.2489, it is intended to be decided that the collection of the debts taken from these persons will not be taken out of debt and that the follow-up process will be terminated. So we're dealing with a small-scale amnesty law. I'd like to make it clear that we don't find it right that the payments collected from workers, peasants, laborers, poor people should be pardoned by a material amendment. Besides, it's a private law proposition. It has also been brought to the agenda of the General Assembly before this proposal is discussed in the Justice Commission, which should be the relevant commission. Under Article 2 of the proposed law, the bidders have envisioned an arrangement to intervene in the daily lives of citizens. Under this provision, provisions for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages are under way. The essence of the change is that, Citizen, you will live as I do. You'll eat and drink what I eat and drink. If I drink buttermilk, you drink buttermilk. We have no right to interfere with the daily life and lifestyle of citizens of the government, the ruling party, or us lawmakers. No one has the right to pretend to protect young people, to regulate the way of life, the way of life, the way of life, according to their own ideological approach. Dear friends, I may choose not to drink of my own free will, and I may choose to, according to my beliefs, this is my natural right as an individual. Why don't you drink to a non-drinking citizen? We can't say, "Why do you drink to a drinker?" At this point, we'd be interfering with individual freedoms, which, in the democratic system, has no place for such an approach. Of course, it's the government's duty to perform educational studies that indicate the damage caused by smoking, the damage caused by drinking, but other than that, we can't ban it with an assessment of our world view, we can't impose bans. This bag of legislation is also a source of public unrest. None of us have the right to impose a single lifestyle on society. The pluralistic structure of Turkey's society is not available for a single form of life. Again, I want to underline something here. The speaker, speaking on behalf of the main opposition party on behalf of the general law, does not object to the forbidden mentality. It's the way and the way he opposes the ban. By increasing the rate of private consumption taxes, we can prevent this. So, basically, he said something that a social-democratic party would say.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0126par0115	We didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0125par0116	It's not you, it's your Group Deputy, and your friend just told me. A social democratic party should drink with money and not drink in poverty. A outlaw such as him cannot defend the mentality, that is not true. Therefore, the same ban, unfortunately, brings up the main opposition party. The second joke of the proposal (2) is that, for whatever reason, alcoholic beverages cannot be distributed as incentives, gifts, souvenirs, promotions, discounts, or assistance. If this offer becomes legal, no citizen will give a drink to a friend or a loved one as a gift of alcohol. If we even try to regulate the law to whom the citizen will give a gift, would that leave a place of individual freedom for the citizen? I want you to think about it. The second and third amendments of the proposal of the law are so forbidden and punishable that we will bring such a drop of alcohol from the nose. Instead of doing so, go out, close down all the places that produce alcohol in Turkey, even ban the planting of vineyards from now on. Ban the sale of alcoholic beverages throughout Turkey so we can get rid of them and the citizens can be comfortable. Can't I at least take this? Is there a penalty for drinking that? If I had an abortion with my child, would they punish me or my child? Dear MPs, from the founding of the republic to today, the outlaw mentality that dominates the state has caused serious damage to Turkey's society, and the country has suffered damage as a whole. At the point where we think that the prohibitive mentality, the concept that restricts freedoms, is behind us in a change of power after the 2011 elections, where new ruling owners, like former ruling owners, are now able to replace their own prohibitive mentality, Turkey will be the loser again. But the ruling owners must know that sooner or later, the real loss will be their loss. In the process, we need to look for solutions and solutions in mutual love and respect, not in prohibitions. We should seek to respect the values of the groups that make up our society. In particular, the belief of the ruling community, which has taken over Turkey's fundamental problems, is that it is a reformist approach, not to form a different version of the old prohibitive mentality. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's immediate problems are not in this bag of legislation. My time is up, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0127par0124	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0128par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0127par0126	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0128par0127	Mr. Speaker, in my speech on the entire bill, my assessments in a completely contrary to its purpose have been deflected by moving it into another frame of its own. That's why I want the word.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0127par0128	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0128par0131	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the MP who was just speaking on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party has not been able to influence my speech, and if he had, he wouldn't have spoken like this. I don't think people should talk about something they don't know. If he's claiming to speak, he'll have to prepare and leave. I said one thing: for once, this proposal intervenes in the individual's freedom zone, in their living space. This is an offer that reflects AKP's ideological understanding, a proposal that restricts freedoms. He's putting that part of the job aside, Mr. Speaker. Secondly, in all democratic modern countries around the world, there is an arrangement and an audit of alcoholic beverages. The government will arrange it. Why? Alcohol abuse is bad for your health. The editor plays a role, for example, which does not encourage the consumption of alcoholic beverages. The state takes measures to do so, but it is never intended to change the individual's preference, or rather to interfere with the individual's preference, to shape his life. And again, I also told you that the Justice and Development Party has brought this proposal with such a purpose. And all over the world, private consumption taxes are used to provide income for the treasure, but also to influence consumer preferences. Those who have a little bit of a tax theory know that. I wish, instead of making a claim against my words, he had remembered a speaker from his own party's phrases that expressed how useful this sector is to the economy by giving an example of the number of private consumption taxes here. That's what I'm saying. All countries receive taxes on alcoholic beverages. Also, in my speech, I said that during the AKP administrations, this area was overburdened. I give you an example: In the 57th period of government, despite those additional tax regulations with the IMF, despite the application of the program with the IMF, the government did not touch the tax on wine to encourage domestic wine production, but it took an admirable step, but the AKP government finally drank and put the wine on the target board and taxed the wine heavily. Although all of this is in the general context of my speech, the speaker who evaluated it in a different context probably didn't follow the subject well, didn't penetrate the issues, which made sense. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0129par0141	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0130par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0129par0143	Here you go, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0130par0144	Mr. President, given my name, they've stated that I don't penetrate matters, that I don't perceive them well. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0131par0145	I've been telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0130par0146	I just want a minute.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0132par0147	Here you go, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0130par0149	Mr. President, I'm a valued lawmakers, and I'm a man of knowledge and knowledge that can understand what's being said and told, and I trust in myself, and I'm one of the top graduates of Ankara University's School of Law. What I'm saying is that a rhetoric that doesn't suit a social-democratic party should be brought up here by a social-democratic party representative. So you've expressed yourself here, if you increase the tax on private consumption, you're kind of in the way of drinking. And I said, "Don't let the poor drink poor, with the special consumption tax, if you increase the cost of drinking, those who don't have money will drink, and that's what I'm saying. That's where you came in, and that's where you put it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0133par0152	Sorry you couldn't penetrate it again.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0130par0153	There's nothing wrong, but we understand you slowly, too.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0133par0154	You don't get it again.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0130par0155	Especially me.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0133par0156	You don't understand.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0130par0157	I understand very well, and we're beginning to get a good sense of CHP. I want to thank you for contributing this to our understanding.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0134par0159	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0135par0160	You're starting to understand better when you're joined by the AKP.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0136par0161	Mr. President, from here to the report... While I was paying attention to the special consumption tax, I said that the government took 8 billion from alcohol, 21 billion from TECEL products, VAT, VAT, indirect tax, and put it in the budget. The power of the state is enough for consumers, it's taxing private consumption on mobile phones, it's loading fuel, natural gas, it's uploading it to citizens in these four areas. I said on the other hand, he forgives bank fees. So I put it in comparison. So this is not a statement that I use to say that special consumption tax is good. I just wanted to make a note to get him on the record.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0137par0163	He's on record, Mr. Kaplan. Thank you. [[Continue]] In the name of the person, the Slap Congressman Reşat Right. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0138par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a personal pledge on the first chapter of the 463 rows of the Bill of Law, and I salute the High Assembly on behalf of myself. Of course, this law is a bag of laws and laws that have been rushed in, and many issues have been thrown into it. Of course, since we're physicians, I particularly want to talk about the addiction of this law and especially the alcohol-related parts. Of course, when it comes to alcohol in this law... people can drink or use any kind of drink of their own free will, there's nothing anyone can say about it, but it's true that it's also an addiction that needs to be remembered. See, in recent years in our country, it has been widely acknowledged that there have been serious problems with substance abuse. Today, you will see that there are serious problems with drugs, especially in some of the major cities, or even in some of the schools. So smoking is rapidly increasing to start in schools in our country. In particular, young people have serious problems with smoking. Besides, alcohol abuse is very serious. See, around 2.5 million people die from smoking every year in the world. So there are more than 3,700 different substances in cigarettes, and most of them are carcinogens. From carbon monoxide to hydrogen cyani, various toxic substances reach every bit of the human body, including our lungs, when a breath is smoked. Hence, these can cause various diseases, such as asthma, heart disease, especially KOAH. So, men who are smokers -- I mean, this isn't overrated -- 40 percent of them either lose their lives or face various diseases before they reach retirement age. That's 18 percent for non-smokers. So, we also offer your appreciation for what it means to enter 40 percent when you can enter 18 percent. Also, even in women, the cancer of the womb has been clearly revealed to be caused by smoking, which means that various studies have also revealed various kinds of research. Smoking, alcohol and drug use and addiction are, after all, a major disease and social injury for our country, Turkey. This should be considered a disease by the Ministry of Health. Therefore, the first subject should be the Ministry of Health. See, there have been struggles, especially in many places in the world lately. There is a project called Project EESPAD. The ESPAD Project -- so it's the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction -- is the European Union's European Union that has to do with drugs, is doing studies on measures that need to be taken, but it's interesting that our Turkey is not responding to this ESPAD Project, unfortunately with the Ministry of National Education. I'm an MP here from 2007, and since 2007, we've brought it up for a good number of times. In particular, in the Research Commission on Drug Addiction, which was established in the 23rd term last year, the issue has been raised several times, but it's interesting that we haven't been able to convince the Justice and Development Party officials and especially the Ministry of National Education officials about it. So, they've tried to express from time to time that the questions asked about Project ESPAD were not compatible with Turkish culture, but I'd like to say that many of our teachers, the scholars, said that in this way, we can change these questions so we can change the questions of Project ESPAD, and we can make them fit in with our people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this means that this includes measures that need to be taken here. So cigarettes, alcohol and drug use in our country, what's the situation in schools? That's the point. You'll take precautions accordingly. But interestingly, unfortunately, we couldn't get the ESPAD Project to work. Maybe they'll hear our voices from here, and some work on this project could be brought up. After all, children are our children. This is not political propaganda or political rhetoric. We all need to have more of our children, our young, and all of us. It's imperative that someone in our family should have a cure for this disease, not for his treatment, but for his protection. So I salute the High Assembly, he says, "Personal medicine is the beginning of everything."
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0139par0180	Thank you, Mr. Right. İzmir MP İlknur Denizli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Denizli.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0140par0184	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the first chapter of the Law Proposal on the amendment to certain Law and Law provisions. I salute you. First of all, we need to name the change of the law as we speak. Let's put it right so our discussion can continue on the right path. This change is not a ban. We do not impose a ban on the use of alcohol of adult individuals.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0141par0186	İlknur Hanım, the Izmirites are asking for you from the cordon, from the fountain.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0140par0187	We wouldn't dream of such a ban. This arrangement is to set rules in the liquor market to protect children, young people, for short, future generations.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0141par0188	I got a phone call, they're asking me about Izmir Cesme Karaburun, and they're saying that we're going to ask Mrs. İlknur about the election.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0140par0189	Part of it is redesigning the rules that have existed in the past on what is needed.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0141par0190	Just so you know, they're asking about the money. The Alsancakans are asking, are we voting for her? They say that the Izmirites who voted for AKP, for your information.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0140par0191	What we aim to do with this arrangement is to protect society. Smoking and drinking manufacturers use the most provocative and therefore cruel manipulations of the human mind. They're trying to bring the user age as low as possible, increase consumption per person.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0141par0192	A glass is interfering with our altitude, and they say it's unbecoming.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0142par0193	They're meeting with the convoy at the cordon. They're going to have a convoy at the cordon. They're going to thank you!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0141par0194	The Izmirites who voted for the AKP, who drank raki, are very angry with you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0195	With this arrangement, we invite our children and our young ones to be more attentive to the liquor market that considers it a customer.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0142par0196	What image is the AKP trying to create, and in this law, the Izmirian MP speaks? Oh, my God, what is the point? What kind of emphasis is that on your subconscious?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0197	We need to be careful with the definition of freedom. Freedom is not a stray, it's not a rule. On the contrary, it is the framework of science, health, education, sociology that sets the rules in place.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0142par0198	Why? This is a smart, modern woman from Izmir. Why?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0199	What's important is to be a society of rules. It's not illegal to make a rule. Let's not confuse the two.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0144par0200	The people in Izmir, the people in the cordon, the people who drank a little raki, the people who voted for the AKP? They say, "Ah!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0201	It is not right to take advantage of the popular association of freedom in the first hearing and to oppose the law that the EC PARTY has passed to protect our children and young people from the destruction caused by alcohol abuse.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0145par0202	Is Izmir interfering with the lifestyle of the AKP, or not?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0203	We need to assess the damage to alcohol use, especially to meet alcohol at an early age, in the light of science. The world is discussing ways to deal with alcohol. Notes from the declaration of the results of the symposium made by the World Health Organization in April are one of the world's top three public health problems, the third main cause of preventable deaths and injuries. Four percent of deaths are associated with alcohol. Alcohol is the cause of 60 different diseases. At first, AIDS increases the risk of spreading many diseases, including tuberculosis. ▪
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0146par0205	We were not harmed. They say the Izmirites.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0206	No government should remain indifferent to this painting. That's what we do, we organize this area with the law.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0147par0207	I don't know if you're that sensitive to other diseases!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0208	The more he forbids it, the more he uses it, and the legend is not true. There are countries in the world that struggle with alcohol. These are proven methods, and we're not exploring new methods. Those who try to spread fear should know that these frightening expressions have no response in our nation. We're acting in the confidence of it. A large percentage of society is laughing at them now. Ten years ago, when we came to power, the municipalities decided to reserve buses for men and women...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0148par0209	We're almost there. He could be next. God knows. It's prepared outside the parliament, and the income is a law proposal, and we're almost there.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0210	You said there would be these kind of practices, but it only lasted three days.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0149par0211	It's happening, it's happening! It happens in schools, you say!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0148par0212	What happened ten years ago, what happened.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0213	Everyone now knows that the AK PARTY has no way of banning it in any area.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0149par0214	Go to sleep!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0148par0215	We're almost there...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0216	We all know the song, the girls in the factory with tobacco, they want a husband who doesn't drink.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0150par0217	IV. You've taught Murat to have mercy on freedom, Mrs. Firstnur. He was a late, liberal man, IV. Murat.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0218	We need to understand the subtlety here. There's tobacco, there's alcohol, but we have to make the rules. I believe that the vast majority of our great House will help us with this matter, which is our Parliament's responsibility.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0151par0219	The owner of the restaurant from Alsancak texted me, and we'll wait for Mrs. İnnnur for the weekend, and we'll discuss it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0143par0220	I wish everyone the best of this law.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0152par0222	IV. We don't think we're being fair to Murat.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0153par0223	Thank you, Mr. Denizli. Congressmans, I'm going to the QA now. Fifteen minutes, half for questions, half for answers. Your time is one minute. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0154par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. In Kadıköy, construction was held two years ago in the districts of Kızıltepe and Dumlupınar and Lülköy and Education. The locals who rely on this zoning work have signed with construction companies and brokers, evacuated their homes, rented out. Most of the area has been destroyed, abandoned, and all kinds of security issues have been raised. While our citizens burned down with the dream of their new home, the Ministry of Environment suddenly stopped implementing it. This has caused our people to panic in the region. The people of the region are waiting for an explanation as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0155par0229	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0156par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 14 of the draft law has something to do with the deployment of university professors in Turkish republics and relatives abroad. How many professors are currently employed at foreign universities and National Education Schools? In addition, these professors work under very heavy conditions when they work in these places. In particular, the wage miscarriages are very obvious. At this point, improvements are expected. Couldn't there be something different about these professors or our teachers who were at least sent abroad to be cured? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0157par0234	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0158par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Finance Minister. Article 13 states that areas of mosques and mosques and places of Koran courses can be used for commercial activities, which can be used by the Chairman of the Dianet Works, which will be produced from the business and will be aided by associations and foundations. It talks about the revenues that were acquired and kept in bank accounts. My question is, will the Ministry of Religious Affairs get interest due to the money kept in the bank because of these revenues? If he will, his motive, if he won't? Of course, the minister in charge of the religion is here, and he can answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0159par0239	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0160par0241	Thank you. My first question, Mr. Secretary, do you find it right to establish a foundation using the government's hands and public resources? Is this structure appropriate for our foundation tradition, our culture? The second issue is: In Article 2 of the Law, no matter what form of alcoholic beverages, advertising and advertising for consumers cannot be done, it cannot be encouraged, it cannot be sold, it cannot be promoted. I support that. But in this article, except for national and international fairs and sectoral organizations. You say, that's a contradiction, isn't it? Isn't there going to be a campaign at these fairs to promote advertising and consumerism? I want to know why you're obligated to this contradiction. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0161par0245	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0162par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, still, what is our country's place between developed world countries in terms of per capita drinking? So, what further measures are being considered? My second question is: are there foundations or associations that are still supported in any way from the government budget or from the ministry budget, or through a grant or through a relief channel, or through a charity channel, which I would appreciate if you could explain to me how much assistance or funding has been given to your ministry or government budget so far.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0163par0250	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0164par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Minister of Health. In Article 20 of the bill, there is a part of the bill that is not identified because of the lack of technical equipment, which is suspected of using neurocotics and psychotropic substances. Now, by what authority did I suspect you, you're on narcotics or psychotropic drugs, how are you going to get to the hospital or to the relevant center... by identifying your authority, number one? Two: How do you intend to apply this during a period of 20 to 25 percent of society using antidepressants and psychotropic drugs? Don't you think it's better to get a tech? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0165par0256	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0166par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our Finance Minister a question: The budget bill (k) in the 2013 budget talks has been removed from here by security and protection personnel, which are among the employees who receive overtime. Fire and police officers, while being kept here on the (k) table, what is the reason for the removal of the guards and security officers? And second of all, how do you intend to address the victims of protection and security personnel? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0167par0262	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0168par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, a liquor ban came along while the Battalion Command of Turkey's Grand National Assembly was transformed into the Casino, the Garden Restaurant. What kind of public interest do you think there is in this Prohibition of Alcohol? Is the practice in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Garden Restaurant a pilot's study of the applications you will perform in the future in Turkey?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0167par0266	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0169par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, from the year 2002, when you came to power, did the foundation, the foundation, and the NGOs that you've been helping with from the central budget exist? If so, how much do they get from the budget and how much do they get from the budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0170par0271	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0171par0273	I give up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0170par0274	Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0172par0275	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Health Minister: How does his party respond to the whole discussion as if it was just a health issue and they didn't have a second opinion, and how does it feel to have it transferred to the Health Commission, not to meet, not to work, not to give opinions about it? He's the Minister of Health -- we've only seen them here tonight -- he could ask for a meeting of the Health Commission, and he could get a contribution from the valued members of the Health Commission. How's he taking it? We expect a clear answer to that.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0170par0277	Thank you, Mr. Special. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0173par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. And I want to thank our dear friends for their questions. First of all, I'm not interested in the details of what Mr. Öğüt. I'm not interested in the details of what Mr. Öğün. I don't know if there's a dimension that concerns the Ministry, but I think it concerns our Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Friends have taken notes, we'll let them know. So let's see how we can help our citizens if they have a victim there. Mr. Right has a question about professors assigned to universities abroad. First, let me say that according to Article 39 of Law 2547, relatives are assigned to universities there. We have had 94 professors assigned to Albania, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan, KKTC, Macedonia and Sarajevo. It's about their rights, like I said, the whole...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0174par0282	Mr. Secretary, they charge very little, they don't get along. Because they didn't get along...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0173par0283	Could be, could be, could be, could be, as I say in principle, I don't know, but if it's going to be done, we need to get close as a whole. In fact, I think it would be best if we went to a recovery, if there were opportunities for professors, but in terms of not raising expectations, it's not something we're working on right now. The question of Mr. Akçay is: will the President of Religious Affairs be able to deposit his income in the bank and obtain interest? We'll have to ask the Chairman of Religious Affairs, which, as I said, is a good reason to lead him there. But let me tell you, right now, there's a protocol between the Ministry of Finance and the Chairman of Religious Affairs. In accordance with this protocol, revenues from there are shared in a certain frame. As for the question of Mr. Şandir, I mean, the establishment of the foundations by law, how true is that? As far as I'm concerned, there are foundations established by law in the past. For example, like the Yunus Emre Foundation, the Foundation for Strengthening Turkish Armed Forces, like the Foundation for Social Aid and Solidarity, there are a lot of foundations, there are foundations established by law, each one has a function. Greenbear also has a very important function in that sense. I think the friends who made the offer probably left here. Because, as I said, when the reason is taken care of, the green moon...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0175par0286	There's the green moon, but there's the Green Moon Society.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0173par0287	There's the green moon, the establishment of the Green Moon foundation...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0175par0288	I get it, but why do you need a foundation?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0173par0289	So, like I said, right now, we have a law-based foundation in our legislation for various purposes. And I'm thinking maybe that's something to consider in that frame. Later: Why were the extra work fees for the protection and security personnel removed? You know, last year, a decree was issued in a law decree; the Court of Law No. 666. According to this decree, all public staff's overtime fees have been removed. Instead, they were allowed to use additional permits if they worked too hard, so it was based on the principle of equal employment. Because more and more overtime then poses a problem in the matter of equal wages for equal work. Now, the guards and security guard personnel are not only in municipalities, but probably because they're in other institutions, so the fire department is... because we didn't interfere with the municipalities, it's a regulation in the central government, under Law 666...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0176par0291	I'm talking about the guard and security guard who works in the municipalities.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0173par0292	Yeah, yeah. But, here's what I'm trying to tell you: I mean, by Code 666, you'd understand that if the people in the Central Government were just bodyguards and security people working in municipalities, we probably wouldn't do anything about it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0176par0293	The Constitutional Court has annulled many judgments, Mr. Secretary, there is a problem with the KHK.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0173par0294	Well, then, if our Constitutional Court cancels, we'll do what's necessary, so you'll appreciate...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0176par0295	Would you look into it, please, I mean, there's been a serious loss.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0173par0296	Okay. So, in the new budget law, that's considered. I, like I said, think we should work on this again. There was another question: Up until now, the assistance of the finance to various foundations and associations has been asked about it. They were asked if they had a camisole in them. Dear friends, I haven't received any information, and I don't have a number in front of me right now, but I'll have friends take it out, and we'll share it with our friends who ask. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0177par0300	Yes, dear friends, do you now find it right to set up the foundation? Of course, as a foundation, I would especially like to say that I find it right for the public to have a special law to protect young people from alcohol and bad habits. The Ministry of Health also helps TB war associations in this sense, but it was Mr. Light's question -- I'll answer them later. I agree, but isn't national and international fairs a contradiction? It's considered a commercial fair. Here, of course, the dynamics of an economic fair can be discussed rather than personal. There are countries in Turkey that are up to 15 litres [15 litres] of alcohol per person. The technical device for detecting neurocotics or psychotropics... is more accurate, but right now we're working to move the application from this point to this point. The curfew has been imposed on Turkey's Grand National Assembly Garden Restaurant. I mean, I don't think it's a very accurate comparison to whether or not certain arrangements will come from this example. You didn't appear at the Health Commission. I returned from the World Health Organization Assembly last night, starting on Sunday. So, I've been in previous studies, and as of today, I've been doing this work again.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0178par0306	The Health Commission...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0177par0307	I agree that there are parts of the Health Commission that are concerned about a lot of issues, but the bag was discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission, according to the law, other areas. So, in this sense, I think it's true if we only brought alcohol in the form of law enforcement, but within a bag of law, I believe you've made all kinds of contributions there. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit03spe0179par0309	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit04spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 463. The commission and the government are in place. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, after I've done the motion procedures on that clause, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 463. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Now there are three proposals on article 1 of the same nature, and I'm going to read them and process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of Law Proposal 463 be removed from the tender text. Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Reşat Right Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim Ik The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Secret by Darayya Leader Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Sedef Küçük Bkent Kuşoğlu Mosa Pine Kazım Kurt of Rahmi Love Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0181par0023	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0180par0024	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0182par0025	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0180par0026	Anyone want a word on the same motions?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0183par0027	Get him to read the reason.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0180par0028	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement is an amnesty. We do not find it right to remove debts from the Court in an environment where large citizen parts, farmers, tradesmen, pensioners are swimming in debt. Abdullah Levent Tüzel, MP of İstanbul, has asked for a statement on the same proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0184par0032	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, we're here to discuss the proposal offered by the government party MPs. With the hostility of alcohol and tobacco, with the penalties it brings to the public, with the phone taxes, with the religious organization, with the allowance it brings to banks, with the ban, and with the censorship, with the fact that we've learned that it's a legal proposal for monotheism, capital self-interest, conservativeism and abuse, with the pleasure of director and university professors. In fact, the law of war with society may be more accurate. Reason, protection of youth, protection of youth from harmful habits, bad things. This law is being drafted, referring to Article 58 of the Constitution. But if the government wants to protect youth from harmful things, it can only save its youth by showing police violence, prisons, brutal and lethal labor conditions, by showing it a job, a school where it can study above all else, and by providing a truly free future for the young. But, in the name of raising a religious youth who loves and embraces national culture, the government has now come before us with a law as if it were confronting the entire community. Prohibition is actually in the minds and souls of those who make this law. It's always been said, it's been said, it's been said, it's been said, no one's lifestyle, habits, disguises, beliefs, social values, but, you know, this is a direct intervention in the matter of alcohol and tobacco and other matters, and it's done with both censorship and great pleasure. In fact, we're also learning from lawmakers who have prepared the proposal that they've also complained that they've been overextended in these sentences, which are still being paid for by the commission talks. In fact, there's a lot of disproportionateness, disproportionateness, and inability to do business. Of course, these alcohol, tobacco-like traffic tickets are again brought to the laborer who has suffered the heavy burden of all life. But as much as all of this -- the least important -- with this proposal, the whole notion of secularism is being eliminated once again, and the duties of the President of the Religious Affairs are also expected to be met in the general budget by the power of the Koran courses, the dorms and pensions. It is necessary to ask here how reliable are the beliefs of those who have delivered their souls to the market? It is a striking example of how, recently, under each mosque, a store run by the president of the Religious Affairs, the revenues that will be obtained from these areas with special incomes and private funds, will be spent on other courses, mosques, mosques, mosque repairs, by the state hand of citizens who have faith in society or who do not believe, how discrimination has been provoked by the government and how it is organized. With that mind, it is absolutely impossible to ensure that citizens live together in this country on the basis of equality and freedom of faith. With the Green Moon Foundation on top of it, it's being strengthened and improved by an unsupervised grant from the Ministry of Health. The future of thousands of workers who work in tourism and alcohol-consuming businesses, along with this law, of the agricultural producer, who also provides raw alcohol production. As representatives of the people, we will vote no for this prepared offer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0185par0043	Thank you. On his proposals of the same nature, again, Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0186par0046	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to law enforcement, number 463. I salute your high council. First of all, I'd like to point out that a covert pardon for debts to the president and members of the Court's bail fund points to an unhealthy state administration. However, the unhealthy approach is not limited to this clause in the proposal. In particular, regulations for the prevention of advertising to alcohol are far beyond advertising bans. Dear MPs, of course the state has an obligation to protect young people from harmful habits, but that's not what we're arguing about. Of course, the government's job is to protect public health, but that's not what we're discussing. Here, with this offer, we are discussing the government-issued intervention in their way of life and way of life. Let's be clear, the purpose of this offer is to impose a certain way of life on this society. In no country ruled by democracy, which is respected for its basic human rights, originating from religion, originating from tradition, originating from ideology, any way of life, no understanding can be imposed on society. If this is done, the name of that form of governance will not be called ▪democracy. Yes, the 58th article of our Constitution has a duty to protect the state, to protect young people from alcoholism, to protect them from drugs, but in the same Constitution, everyone has freedom of conscience, religious faith and conviction. In the same Constitution, it is also said that anyone can perform without permission. The same Constitution also has the right to a fair trial. If you turn your head when these fundamental rights and freedoms are the issue, if you ignore them, but if you open your eyes when it comes to maintaining the way of life, if the fingers that don't get up when it comes to the Uludere are the ones that don't get up when it comes to the prohibition of alcohol, there's a serious problem. Dear lawmakers, alcohol consumption per capita in our country is much lower than European countries, America, Asia. There's nothing wrong with public health, and you know it. But there is another threat. This threat is an intervention in the unpopular way of life, an effort to make society one. Let everyone think as I do, and live as I do, and believe as I believe. The only true threat is the one in the middle. But, in spite of this threat, this society will not become one. No matter how much you interfere, not everyone will think the same way, not everyone will live the same way. It is impossible to impose a way of life on a country where so many different cultures live together. For thousands of years, this community has managed to live in pluralism, and I assure you, this community will not sacrifice this pluralism to many. No matter what is imposed, no matter what is forbidden, it will not lose its plurality. Despite everything and everyone, this society will be able to live together in tolerance; it is called the culture of living together. Dear lawmakers, if a government wants to protect their young, it gives them a solid future, gives them freedom, gives them a country ruled by real democracy. If we want to protect our young people, you have to control a sense of government that doesn't separate them from their own, that doesn't treat them like potential terrorists, that doesn't spray pepper spray or spray water. But first of all, we have to trust our young people. No country that doesn't trust its youth will have a future. It should also be remembered that no modern society has ever been able to achieve anything with bans, punishments, community engineering. Otherwise, why would anyone object to protecting our young ones from bad habits? Our objection is not to that; our objection is to impose a mindset, a way of life on society. If you try to shape a society by forcing its way of life, it will end up in an authoritarian structure. It also states that I don't think anyone in this country would prefer it, and I pay tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0187par0055	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. We propose and propose that the Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Cevdet Erdöl Osman love Look Suat Önal Article 2 - 8/6/1942, and Article 6 of the Ispirto and Ispired Liquor Law, as follows. 6 - No matter what happens to alcoholic beverages, advertising and promoting are not available to consumers. The campaign, promotion and activity that encourage or encourage the use and sale of these products cannot be done. However, scientific broadcasts and activities can be organised with the expertise fairs aimed at promoting special alcoholic beverages at an international level. Those who produce alcoholic beverages, import and market them cannot support any event using brands, emblems, or signs of their products. The brand, emblem and logo can be used for service materials in businesses with a permit to sell open alcohol. In TV shows, movies, and music videos, alcoholic beverages cannot be included. People who produce alcoholic beverages, importers and marketers, for whatever reason, cannot distribute alcoholic beverages, including incentives, gifts, conjugates, promotions, or free drinks. Alcoholic beverages cannot be sold or served to people who are not 18 years old to be consumed or taken with them. Non-18-year-olds cannot be employed in the production, marketing, sale, and open presentation of alcoholic beverages. In accordance with the legal regulations, educational studies are outside the scope of this provision. Alcoholic drinks can't be sold by automatic vending machines, they can't be played and bet on any kind of game machines or different methods. These products cannot be sold to consumers through press and publication and cannot be sent by mail using a sales method. Alcoholic drinks can't be sold as retail between 10:00 and 6:00. Alcoholic beverages can be used openly in places where they are allowed to offer and cannot be sold alcohol to be consumed outside the facility limits. Alcoholic drinks can't be sold as retail, seen outside the business. Turkish warning messages have been issued in Turkey, excluding exports, on the wrappings of alcoholic beverages produced or imported. Warning messages can also be in images, shapes, or graphic shapes. Alcoholic drinks that don't carry warning messages can't be sold, can't be sold. The shape, size, and content of the warning messages are determined by the Ministry of Health's appropriate view by the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Organization. No brand, identifier, and distinctive signatures of alcoholic beverages can be used in non-alcoholic and sair products, and no marks of alcohol-free beverages, brands, identifiers, and distinctive beverages can be used in alcoholic beverages. However, in export-producing productions, the verdict does not apply. As a result of the processing of products in the category of alcoholic beverages, exclusion of exports, alcohol is easily written by consumers as to the amount of alcohol it contains on the packaging of alcohol remaining in its content, alcohol is fully taken, alcohol is taken entirely, alcohol is easily readable. Alcohol sales and consumption are not allowed in buildings and facilities on highways and state highways, except for housing and housing. Student dorms, health services, stadiums and sports halls held in sports competitions, all kinds of educational and educational institutions, coffeehouses, carathanes, cakehouses, glands and bridge halls and fuel stations can't sell alcoholic beverages in stores and restaurants. Congressmans, since the three motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws and Legislatures No. 463 rows We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Secret by Darayya Leader Pervin Buldan The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim İlm Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0188par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0187par0099	Reşat Right, the slap MP who wants to speak on the same motions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0189par0101	I have received a pledge on the 2nd amendment of Law Proposal 463. I salute the High Council. The second article is about advertising, promoting, and selling liquor products. What I want to talk about here is the subject of substance use and the fight against addiction. Members of lawmakers, substance abuse, alcohol, smoking and drug addiction are at the top of the world's most important problems, as our country has in the coming years. In particular, the situation in our schools and in some places has reached a frightening extent, I'm afraid. The family, social environment and friend group are the main risk and protection factors in young people's use of matter. In order to protect society from substance abuse, preventive work must be started at an early age. What addiction is, how much damage these substances can do to human health, individual and social life, must first be explained by parents, and must be applied in family life. Today, for reasons such as the family's economic difficulties, especially migrations and educational problems, some families give less or less care for their children. For reasons such as inadequacies in the number of schools and teachers, expert deficits in substance abuse, and lack of curriculum, there are unfortunately not enough preventive studies in schools. Children may not meet and use these substances within the family's social environment, but they do. Many studies suggest that young people receive their first information about these substances and their first offer of use from their friends. Hence, the awareness of families, the strengthening of active roles as parents and family relations is the basis for family-axis work. Congressmans, we'd like the attention of the community. The Police General Directorate recently conducted research on substance abuse in schools. I'd like to express my gratitude for the work he's done to TUBIM. The Turkish Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, as we already call it, is working with great sacrifice, and is doing really serious work. According to the studies conducted by TUBIM (TUBIM), the survey shows that drug users are 1.5 per cent in the younger population and 2.7% in the general population. There are also findings in the survey found by the scientific board: 48.2% of students have a family that uses tobacco. 26.7% of the students have expressed that they have tried smoking, cigars, bongs, and such tobacco products. For the first time in students, the age of testing tobacco is 14. 19.9% of the girls say that 33.2% of the men have tried tobacco and products. In the family of 15.2% of students, there is one person who uses alcohol, 19.4% of whom have expressed that they have tried alcoholic beverages. 14.1 percent of the girls have said that men have tried alcohol and 22.6 percent of the girls have tried alcohol. The survey conducted in thirty-two counties was compared to the results of the ESPAD in Europe, the European School Project on Alcohol and Other Drugs. Some levels are low in our country. In Europe, 17 per cent of students have been exposed to cannabis use, while 6 per cent have been using illicit drugs. As a result, the Ministry of National Education is subject to important tasks in substance abuse. However, as of 2004, the Ministry of National Education did not allow ESPAD projects to be implemented in schools. That's not true, so I'd like to ask the Ministry of National Education to grant this permission, and I'd like to express that the authorities and families will fight the plague of the age of substance abuse. We have to do what the world does in the struggle. I'd like to list some suggestions on substance abuse: the fight against substance abuse should be based on scientific information, the policy based on evidence. Substance addiction should be considered a disease. During the fight against substance abuse, the common language must be formed, with the focus of community, family and school prevention activities. Children need to be co-ordinated and strengthened among drug-related institutions. The laws on substance abuse must be passed immediately. Look, today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that's what we're talking about in this bag of law. However, the law says it must be passed, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0190par0114	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the same proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0191par0116	Dear AKP people, why are you confused this evening?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0192par0117	Sir, aren't we here?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0191par0118	Why are you confused? I'm addressing them, Mr. Aslanoglu, and I'm going to address you now. You made a last-minute motion. You made your motion, you couldn't hold back for three minutes, you made another motion, and I have both. You're confused, that's what they call a drunk without drinking. What's going on? One last-minute motion, and three minutes later, you're making another motion. Now, look, let me explain. I'm trying to understand your logic. Where am I trying to figure it out? You know, you're a Islamist, religious conservative party in power. I'm looking at the main opposition here, and Aslanoglu says: "Don't you say anything to me?........ a secular conservative party is standing across from you. Now, for God's sake, tell me. Free advertising in exported alcohol, free publicity, see, illegal imports, free exports, illegal imports; that's one. I need someone to explain it to me in a nice, scientific way. Secondly, in Turkey, fairs, scientific meetings are now a record after record, because you're confused about this, and so is the form of your proposal passed through the commission, and so are the last two minutes of your motion. What will the citizen do now? All alcoholics, manufacturers, will hold scientific meetings like the festival every day. The expert (A) will go like this in Antalya, the expert (B) in Bodrum. Now, there's going to be a sponsor explosion, folks. The AK PARTY government says that alcohol is not harmful but not sinful. Is it true? Right. Look, we're gonna have the right talk here. Look, there's no such thing. There, there, there, there, there, there, lawful and unlawful; there, there, there, sin, there, good. You can't come and go like this, you're gonna stand right, you're gonna stand up for what you brought. Look, let me tell you something else. You will put these labels on alcohol bottles, and on top of that, alcohol is forbidden, and on top of that, alcohol goes to hell. On top of that, your beliefs reflect, but you don't do it. Look, what did you bring with you in the final motion? There's no incentive to drink alcohol in movies, TV, TV, TV, videos, music. No, there were flowers, flowers! Now you'll replace the bottles with bananas. (Laughter) From now on, your work is reflected in flowers and bananas. Look, let me be clear, let's not be censors, this censorship doesn't cure anyone; a warning from me. Look, the AK PARTY gets one vote out of every two people. What percentage of the voter's voter is drinking? Have you done a survey? I think you should do it. Oh, we'll get a Tourism document, we'll get a Culture Minister Omar Çelik. You can say, "We'll get a Tourism document, we'll tear up everything, we'll do everything, we'll do everything, we won't be banned." They're already bosses in tourist areas, big hotel owners, all yours. You are not forbidden; the EC may sell, advertise, drink, and drink. What will the poor opposition do? They're not allowed. It'll make you lose your old license, and the government won't let you get another one. Yeah, well, we'll have to put a stop to that, too. So the main opposition's mission falls to us. Now, from that point of view, why in God's name would you protect young people now? Colleges are all over the place. Are they getting mixed up in alcohol or are our young people getting mixed up because they're drinking? Look, racism, discrimination, monomenism, intolerance of each other, the insufferability of ideas, the lack of freedom of thought has turned our universities into a riot every day. That's not because of drinking, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I say women, let's draw the attention of the House, and let's get to the truth of our country. As for the truth, we protect our young, we protect them with proper training. Actually, I had a few more words to say, but it wasn't enough, so we'll continue on the third article.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0193par0135	When do you want your answer?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0191par0136	If you do, speak up and give it to me.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0194par0137	Thank you. Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Silver, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0195par0141	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, members, we're here to discuss a law proposal that limits the use of alcoholic beverages. It's a proposal from the Plan and Budget Commission to the General Board in a hurry before the ink is dry. Against the working principles and requirements of our commission, we are constantly faced with a bag of laws. As I said in the Plan and Budget Commission, the Commission has become a bag budget commission. Unfortunately, it has no plan. We've got a bag of law proposals coming in at first, and we're meeting at the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, let's be very clear that this law proposal has nothing to do with preventing alcoholism and protecting our young people. In order to bring limitation to alcohol consumption, it is intended to deliver political messages and provide the country with bans. On the other hand, it is a political blackout. Because you don't have the answers to why it was moved earlier. The timing of the bill's proposal to come to the Commission and bringing it to the General Assembly in a hurry. In our opinion, the Prime Minister's humble and confused return from the United States and, while he was there, post-Reyhan developments forced the government to change the agenda of a mediatic issue such as prohibition.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0196par0143	A long time ago...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0195par0144	The impact of the bombs that went off in Reyhanlı -- the bombs continue to go off, this time other bombs are exploding -- the AKP administration, which returned from the United States with frustration and surprise from the loss of our citizens, was once again shaken by secret intelligence documents, as the Internet pirates published on social media yesterday. According to us, this tremor has been effective when the law proposal was rushed to the General Assembly before the commission dried the ink. All the pain in our country, and the AKP's foreign policy is being followed with such anxiety, and you come here with a Prohibition Prohibition Proposal. Promotions of alcoholic beverages, even among companies, contrary to the nature of commerce, would be a crime, even if you call them from the grocery store for a beer; a condition that would be illegal even if a citizen drinks at a wedding is introduced at your time. From now on, a citizen will be encouraged to commit secret crime, and that's not gonna work. If you make it a law that doesn't happen, you make it a crime-provoking society. This does not prevent addiction, but prohibits alcohol, state it. Later on, some issues have been shaved in the Commission, but we see the essence of the proposal remains unchanged. The proposal is a structure that interferes in the field of freedoms, which is beyond what should be, which interferes with traditions, trade and human rights and freedoms. Your job is to black out politics. What you really need to discuss here is why the United States does not agree with you about Syria. Why does the United States want to protect the institutions of the Syrian state and explain it, you need to discuss it here. Why does the United States have to sit down with Russia to solve the Syrian problem, and what's behind it? Do you think about the global framework of cooperation with Russia about Syria? What will Turkey's relations with Syria be after this, if the United States is maintained as a result of talks with Russia? Many trades have been made with those who tried to destroy the government in your time. What if he goes and finds out about it? What will be the relationship with our neighbors? To the government, where have you been for 11 years, bringing up the law on alcohol today? What you've done makes sense. I'm asking you to give this citizen some information. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0197par0151	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0198par0154	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0197par0155	I'll submit the same motions to your votes, but there's a roll call, and I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Şimçı, Mr. Silver, Mr. Çayoğlu, Mr. Kuğeli, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Akagün Yilmaz, Mr. Serter, Mr. Special and Mr. Light. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. We propose and propose that the Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Article 2 - 8/6/1942, and Article 6 of the Ispirto and Ispired Liquor Law, as follows. 6 - No matter what happens to alcoholic beverages, advertising and promoting are not available to consumers. The campaign, promotion and activity that encourage or encourage the use and sale of these products cannot be done. However, scientific broadcasts and activities can be organised with the expertise fairs aimed at promoting special alcoholic beverages at an international level. Those who produce alcoholic beverages, import and market them cannot support any event using brands, emblems, or signs of their products. The brand, emblem and logo can be used for service materials in businesses with a permit to sell open alcohol. In TV shows, movies, and music videos, alcoholic beverages cannot be included. People who produce alcoholic beverages, importers and marketers, for whatever reason, cannot distribute alcoholic beverages, including incentives, gifts, conjugates, promotions, or free drinks. Alcoholic beverages cannot be sold or served to people who are not 18 years old to be consumed or taken with them. Non-18-year-olds cannot be employed in the production, marketing, sale, and open presentation of alcoholic beverages. In accordance with the legal regulations, educational studies are outside the scope of this provision. Alcoholic drinks can't be sold by automatic vending machines, they can't be played and bet on any kind of game machines or different methods. These products cannot be sold to consumers through press and publication and cannot be sent by mail using a sales method. Alcoholic drinks can't be sold as retail between 10:00 and 6:00. Alcoholic beverages can be used openly in places where they are allowed to offer and cannot be sold alcohol to be consumed outside the facility limits. Alcoholic drinks can't be sold as retail, seen outside the business. Turkish warning messages have been issued in Turkey, excluding exports, on the wrappings of alcoholic beverages produced or imported. Warning messages can also be in images, shapes, or graphic shapes. Alcoholic drinks that don't carry warning messages can't be sold, can't be sold. The shape, size, and content of the warning messages are determined by the Ministry of Health's appropriate view by the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Organization. No brand, identifier, and distinctive signatures of alcoholic beverages can be used in non-alcoholic and sair products, and no marks of alcohol-free beverages, brands, identifiers, and distinctive beverages can be used in alcoholic beverages. However, in export-producing productions, the verdict does not apply. As a result of the processing of products in the category of alcoholic beverages, exclusion of exports, alcohol is easily written by consumers as to the amount of alcohol it contains on the packaging of alcohol remaining in its content, alcohol is fully taken, alcohol is taken entirely, alcohol is easily readable. Alcohol sales and consumption are not allowed in buildings and facilities on highways and state highways, except for housing and housing. Student dorms, health services, stadiums and sports halls held in sports competitions, all kinds of educational and educational institutions, coffeehouses, carathanes, cakehouses, glands and bridge halls and fuel stations can't sell alcoholic beverages in stores and restaurants. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0199par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0200par0184	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0197par0185	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The aim is to diversify methods aimed at encouraging and preventing alcohol use, clarifying narrative, and resolving any hesitations that may arise in practice. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0201par0190	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0197par0191	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çamı, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Özgük, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Sertuk, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Ağbaba. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0202par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. When the proposal came to the Plan and Budget Commission, it contained very rijit, strict provisions, many provisions that did not apply to real life and caused problems in economic life. During the commission's work, some of them were able to be corrected, but now, from the following ruling party motions, some of the softening of the commission is being restored to the General Assembly. For example, a motion that has just been adopted is being made in restaurants to see whose side the service will be served by, so the bus will not be busboyed, but the waiter will. So let's stop interfering with the inside of the restaurant. Is this the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs? The second issue is that companies who produce alcoholic beverages can be sponsored in international activities, so let's not encourage them to use the logo, not use the name, but let them be sponsored in international activities. I mean, how right is it to get it out of the whole economic life just because drinking is bad for your health, Mr. President, the valued lawmakers? I find it wrong, and I see it as contrary to the needs of economic life. Again, local authorities have decided on the sales hours of alcoholic beverages. We have municipalities that apply it well, and at certain hours, they're blocking the sale themselves. It might be wrong to take this to the level of law. In a certain place at night, this sale can be banned, and in certain places, municipalities can move it to different hours. Maybe they can ban it at certain times of the day as well as at night. It is more appropriate to leave it to one of the municipalities, one of the concerned municipalities. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0203par0210	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0204par0212	Mr. President, we're not really doing a healthy law study because even members of the AK PARTY have raised their hand without even reading it. It says there that alcohol is forbidden to sell at the prayer, and that it is allowed to sell at the morning prayer. It's a very serious contradiction, so it's a sales event based on prayer situations. Again, about the organization...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0203par0214	How about the other nays, Mr. Kaplan, does he exist?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0204par0216	Mr. President, now, look, why is it unhealthy? I'm looking at the fourth motion, two more motions came at the same time. Our friends are very confused, so it's not healthy. So, they've made two motions again, five minutes apart. I'll tell you if they're making it separately, but it's from Mr. Canikli. I don't know if Mr. Intellectual is preparing it separately or not. There are two such motions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0205par0217	He's preparing outside Parliament, sir. Don't answer here. He says so, my friends.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0204par0218	So, we set up the subcommittee of this commission, we worked on the top commission, we corrected a lot of wrongs so we could do something right, and now they're doing it wrong again. It's not very healthy. I'd like to present it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0206par0219	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0205par0220	Mr. President, you'll be questioned. Why are the ruling party MPs being blamed for the outside motions? It's coming from the outside, the motions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0206par0221	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in, I promise you one minute.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0207par0223	Mr. President, I'm a tourist, I wanted a drink at two o'clock in the morning, I came here, you're the mayor, you're going to tell me that if we live, it's two o'clock. Mr. President, at least this time of drinking for tourists in tourist areas... please, let's not deal with this, let's not deal with the clock in the tourist areas, don't, don't, don't, don't, you're doing it wrong. You're misreporting the country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Guys, we have to change this watch in the tourist zone. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0208par0228	Yes, thank you. [[Continue]] In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0209par0235	You're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0208par0236	Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0210par0237	Mr. President, very valuable members, I'd like to make one thing clear. It really upsets me, especially to perform the prayer at night and the prayer at dawn. This is the first one. The second issue, dear friends, is now this app, the clock app, which is the clock app for retail sales in almost every developed country in the world. I mean, what country...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0211par0239	Oh, come on, Mayor!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0212par0240	Yes, Mr. President, I'm in the market in Alanya. I'm in the market.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0210par0241	Would you excuse me, please? Yeah, I'll make it clear. There's nothing to be disturbed about, I'll just give you a heads-up. I'll keep you informed, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0213par0242	Oh, are you kidding me? What information do you give?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0210par0243	Now, look, there's no retail sales in Sweden after 7:00 a.m. in the week, 15 on Saturdays. It is not allowed after 00, nor is it forbidden on Sundays for 24 hours.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0214par0244	President, can you tell me about the alcohol consumption there, the alcohol consumption there?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0210par0245	Now, more or less, all Scandinavian countries have curfews. Other than that...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0215par0246	Your reference is Bangladesh, Pakistan. What Swedish, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0210par0247	Of course it's yours. I just wanted to give you some information. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0216par0249	I thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0217par0250	This isn't right! It's Fascism, fascism!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0216par0251	Yes, there are four motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. We propose and propose that the Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way, in the framework of Article 3. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Cevdet Erdöl Osman love Look Suat Önal Nureddin Nebati "Abolition 7 of Article 3-4250 of the Law is redesigned as follows.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0218par0259	Mr. President, we don't understand. Mr. President, we can't hear, we don't understand. MADDE 7 - Article 6 of this Law; A) From the 5,000 Turkish liras to the 200000 Turkish liras, against those who acted contrary to each of the bans mentioned in their first and second jokes, B) From 10,000 Turkish liras to 5,000 Turkish liras to businesses that act against curfews mentioned in their third, fourth, sixth and eleventh jokes, C) Against the seventh joke, from 5,000 Turkish liras to 50,000 Turkish liras, ) To manufacturers and importers who violate the obligations and bans of eight, nine, and ten jokes...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0219par0266	Mr. President, I don't understand anything without reading it. No less than a hundred thousand Turkish liras, as much as the market value of the goods that have been put on the market in violation of these obligations and bans. D) To sellers violating bans on the 11th joke, from 10,000 Turkish liras to 100,000 Turkish liras, E) For those who act contrary to the bans of the fifth joke, the 5th article (k) of Article 8 of the Law on Tobacco and Alcohol Market Organization No. 3/1/2002. A administrative fine is fined. If the child's health is compromised as a result of violation of the law stated in Article 6 of Article 3 of Article 6, the sentence shall also be ruled against the perpetrator according to Article 194, dated 26/9/2004 and under Article 5237, titled "accessive material for health."
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0220par0272	Mr. President, this motion is not distributed to us, it is not distributed!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0219par0273	What motion is that? We don't have it, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0220par0274	We don't have this motion, we don't have this motion, we don't have the reading proposal!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0221par0275	Go ahead. The Radio and Television Oversight Board is authorized to issue administrative fines on the television and radios to provide administrative fines for this clause (a), (e) and (e) the administrative fines specified in the dams.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0220par0277	Sir, let him come to the motion and read these later. Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0222par0278	Mr. President, this motion didn't come to us, sir, it wouldn't happen.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0221par0279	Wait a second, let him read it and I'll... Go ahead. The product of the crime defined in the first joke (c) is also decided to move its property into the public domain. The Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorship is in charge of making this decision."
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0223par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0221par0283	One moment, Mr. Hamzacebi, don't you have the motion, sir?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0223par0284	Sir, this motion has now come to us upon our objection. We can't have a law hearing like this, Mr. President, please interrupt the hearing. We can't go on like this, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0221par0285	It's in the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0223par0286	Neither have we.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0224par0287	No, sir, we don't!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0225par0288	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0226par0289	Sir?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0224par0290	Sir, let the gentlemen come and search our table if they can find it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0227par0291	You have to sign the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0224par0292	Yeah, it's gotta be signed.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0228par0293	Mr. President, I've been looking at the motion ever since.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0229par0294	Mr. Chancer, do you have any, sir? Mr. Shandır, do you have this motion, sir?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0230par0295	I do.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0229par0296	I do. Do you have any, sir?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0231par0298	Sir, we've got... anyway, we've got a counter-technical motion... for him to discuss the procedure now.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0232par0299	Mr. President, just because he's there doesn't mean we have to.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0233par0300	No.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0234par0301	But it's been distributed.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0233par0302	Mr. President, no.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0234par0303	But it's disbanded, we're asking for it, please. Yes, I'm reading other proposals...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0235par0305	Mr. President, one moment, sir. Mr. President, I'm Deputy Director of the Group, and I haven't received any motions. If the motion is to be distributed, it should come to me.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0236par0306	If he says he didn't show up, sir, I mean, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0234par0307	The law says you are, sir. So I asked Mr. Shandir, and I asked Mr. Kaplan, and I asked him from the ruling party, and they say they are.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0237par0308	Is it so hard to give a motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0238par0309	There may have been a flaw, so what is it?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0239par0310	Mr. President, does this mean that since you've gone to three other groups...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0237par0311	We're still going to the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0240par0312	Wait, Mr. Cetin, why are you objecting? Mr. Group Vice President speaking, expressing himself, please, but...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0239par0313	So now that he's gone to three other groups...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0240par0314	If there's anything missing, we'll complete it, please...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0239par0315	But you won't let me either, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0240par0316	I'll allow it. Here you go. Why wouldn't I? Come on in.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0239par0317	Is it because you went to three other groups that I'm not telling the truth?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0240par0318	No, it's not that you're not telling the truth, I...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0239par0319	The law didn't give me a motion. I'm trying to follow the motions carefully. I hesitate from the moment it's read because there's no motion I can follow. I'm looking around to see if they've given the motions to friends. There are no motions delivered to me. If our friends say we gave it to Akif Hamzacebi, I'm prepared to take it back.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0241par0320	Mr. President, let's take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0242par0321	And, Mr. President, now, the law talks are being submitted by the ruling group. There's no way to investigate, there's no way to investigate.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit05spe0243par0322	Yeah, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 463. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. There are four motions on the third article. I'm rereading the motions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0244par0005	Mr. President, at the beginning of the session, the motions were distributed in a set, but you immediately paused, the ruling party's motions had not arrived. Then they arrived, but then there were some changes in those motions, or other motions, and for the first time, something different was done here, you did something different as president. All the motions for chapter one...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0006	System's up, sir. Can you explain that?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0244par0007	Now, this is the first time you've done anything different here. Normally, in the draft and proposals discussed as the basic law, you would distribute all of the motions for that section when negotiations began. These motions have not been distributed here. I mean, the opposition's been disbanded, the government's not disbanded, they're making preparations, they're coming over. So we have the latest ruling party's motion on the 4th Amendment, and do we have a motion on the following clauses? We can't have this conversation if it's the future, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0008	Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi, you are stating that all motions for chapter one have been issued.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0245par0009	Well, he won't be coming anymore then. Okay?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0244par0010	Mr. President, now, look, we can't continue these negotiations, sir. The opposition party's motions will stand before power, the ruling party's motions will not stand in front of the opposition, but will come at the last minute. That's not the way to negotiate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0011	Mr. Hamzacebi already...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0244par0012	We can't go on like this, Mr. President. If you continue, I'm going to have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0013	Mr. Hamzacebi, the ruling party has motions for the first five articles, and they are disbanded.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0244par0014	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0015	He doesn't have any other motions so far.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0246par0016	No more?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0247par0017	Who promises, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0018	Sir, I'm not asking, is there a ruling party or not?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0247par0019	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0020	I wouldn't know about that.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0248par0021	They don't know either, sir. They say it's coming from outside Parliament. I just asked him. He says it's coming from outside Parliament.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0022	Please, Mr. Special, have a seat.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0248par0023	Where did this come from? I'm saying, from outside Parliament, the MP's motion to write.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0243par0025	There are no motions for president. Yes, I'm having the motions read: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Seeing 463 S. The framework of the Numbered Law Proposal is the following article... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Just a moment, Mr. Mustafa.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0249par0031	There's a motion coming in from outside Parliament. You ask, they can't answer. ▪ We do not know if others will come?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0250par0032	Mr. President, where are these proposals coming from?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0251par0033	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0252par0034	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0253par0035	Cevdet Bey is writing and bringing it to the Prime Minister's office.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0252par0036	Mr. Hamzacebi, let the group shut up first, and then we'll listen to you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0254par0037	Would you excuse me, please?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0252par0038	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0254par0039	Mr. President, look, Mr. Tarayya Sadi Icç has brought us a motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0255par0040	I brought a set, but this set isn't here. They say it's here.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0254par0041	Oh, now, I'm looking at a motion on the 7th Amendment, no. So the ruling party gave us its own motion, and only gave us a motion on the 7th Amendment. Mr. President, we can't conduct an interview like this, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0256par0043	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm starting a formal discussion. I'll give you three minutes. Here you go. I don't know what I'm opening up with, so I'll tell you the truth. Because the ruling party's motions for the presidency have been distributed here.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0257par0047	Mr. President, I want a word against you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0258par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0256par0049	Do you want to speak in favor or against me?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0258par0050	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0259par0051	Against...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0256par0052	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0260par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we can't hold a law hearing like this, there's an insincere situation. The ruling party does not share its proposals with the opposition, it wants to carry out its own demands at the last minute by making a motion. Now, look, we've just come to our objections to the 7th Amendment motion that was read just now, the 3rd Amendment motion -- which changes the 7th article of Law 4250 on the subject of the proposal. Mr. Süzyya Sadi Bilç has just arrived, and said: "Don't you have this motion set?" • In addition to the motion that we now meet on the third amendment set, we have a motion on Article 4 of the proposal, but we do not have a motion on Article 5 of Article 5 of the proposal. Now, we can't have a meeting like this, Mr. President. Even though I have directed this objection to you, you don't listen to me, and you argue with me in a manner of speaking, I don't understand what you're saying. Opposition parties will submit their motions, distribute their ruling party proposals indiscriminately. This won't reach the Republican People's Party Group. I will object to you, and you will deny my objection. I doubt your situation, I don't think it's true. We can't have a law meeting like this. Please, let's take a break. No matter how many motions the ruling party has, let's examine them. The number of rows has already been distributed at a time when lawmakers have not been able to properly examine them. It's 11:00 in the morning. There were no queues in the rooms of lawmakers in the 00. 14. The meeting begins at 00, where lawmakers do not know what the clauses of the law proposal will still be discussed. Talks have begun in such an environment. Now, we don't know which of the ruling party's motions will come, until the matter meeting begins. When the meeting starts, we get the motion right away, and we look at the motion, and we're very clear. Mr. President, I ask you again, we can't have a meeting like this. I'm here to inform you that if you continue, we'll be forced to open this discussion of procedure in each article. So let's take a break, have the ruling party make their motions, and we'll look into it, and the negotiations will continue after that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0261par0062	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0262par0063	Mr. President, I'd like a word against your procedure.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0261par0064	Received, taken, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0262par0065	Then I want another one in favor.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0261par0066	Sir, Mr. Shandır wanted us here, and Mr. Kubbat wanted us in favor.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0263par0067	Mr. President, don't we have a name?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0262par0068	Mr. Kubat has given up.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0261par0069	Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0264par0071	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0265par0072	Mr. President, don't we have a name? I wanted words with Hamzacebi. I'm sorry, there are motions until morning, and I'll speak to them all, as you wish, Mr. President, as you wish.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0264par0073	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In regard to the matter we discussed, we handed over five of our proposals for chapter one to the stand at the same time before the discussion began. At the same time, we delivered them all as fives -- five, if I remember correctly. We have a motion on the 13th article of chapter one, we have no other motion, we've given it to him, we've given it to him now. You know, it's possible to make a motion before the meeting of substances. However, in fact, I agree with Mr. Hamzacebi's request that we give as much time as possible to provide enough time for friends to study. So, we collectively gave all five of our proposals. When did we give it to him? We gave it to him just before he started interviewing chapter one. In addition, we had no motion on the 1st article, and our motions began from the 2nd article. Therefore, there is no delay in our proposals. Also, look, the first article was discussed, and if I remember correctly, the two groups had a motion, and there were talks on them, and there was a break. I mean, there's actually been some time for the motions. I mean, we may not be able to use the word "almost," but there was time to study it. Also, again, of course, these negotiations continue, and it's a process that's moving at the same time. At times, the demands of our friends from the opposition have been raised, and if they are assessed and considered appropriate, correction can be made at that time. There are some corrections I've made by hand, as well as by suggestion, which has been distributed for the second time. The main reason for these corrections is that together, the subtraction emerged as a reflection of the will to conduct together. As a final statement, Mr. Hamzacebi had just wondered or said, "If so, let it be explained." All our motions for chapter one have been made. We don't have any other motions for chapter one. We've just submitted a motion on the 13th article, which will soon be distributed and presented to our groups. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0266par0080	Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0267par0082	Dear President, my dear friends, of course, not because the Presidential Court has a flaw, but because the law has a flaw in setting up the negotiation order. It's the basic error of the matter to insist on discussing such a law, to insist on meeting such a law, without arguing enough about it, in the lower commission, without arguing enough about it, and without seeking a compromise, or seeking a compromise -- it's not certain when it will end at this late hour of the night, but we can listen to the morning tyrant here -- and to insist on discussing it. Of course, as Mr. Canikli said, any matter can be motioned at any time. But if you take a bag of legislation that changes a lot of laws and decrees as a fundamental law, you block the opening of negotiations on matter, and at the same time, when the matter is discussed, it's going to be chaos. You're actually making long-term motions in two articles, both 2, and 3, and 3. It came after the motions were distributed, and I have to admit that after the section motions, the ruling group's motions came one by one, the 4th article, the 3th article, and the 2th article did not come within that team. I noticed that, too. In fact, we asked you if there were any other motions, and you said, "Article 13," and he just arrived. Well, therefore, there's been a disturbance, there's no way to examine it. There's not enough time to see what you've changed in that relevant clause of the existing law, what word, what sentence you've changed. And so, in the matter that has been debated about, given other meanings in the matter that has been discussed, such impromptu actions, such impromptuness, will, of course, bring criticism with it. You're not smuggling drugs from a fire by suhulet. Yes, it's very important. I mean, as the Nationalist Movement Party Group, we agree to develop measures that limit the use of alcoholic beverages to protect our generation, or encourage the use of alcoholic beverages to protect our young people, but there's a obligation to address such an important issue correctly. I made a commitment not to the position of Mr. President's Court, but to the opinion that this attitude of the ruling party group, which has agreed to draft and negotiate this law, is not right. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0268par0088	Thank you. Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a favour on my conviction. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0269par0092	Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers are the bastards who don't sign whatever you bring to protect our young people from all kinds of bad habits.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0268par0093	Mr. Aslanoglu, please don't use those last words on the floor of the House, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0269par0094	No, I'm speaking for myself. Mr. President, I speak for myself.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0268par0095	I get it, I know you're using it for yourself, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0269par0096	My group, as well, is prepared to make every sacrifice to protect our young people, our children, and we're all in. However, this law came to us on Monday -- this law came to the Plan and Budget Commission -- I'm a group spokesman. Let's protect the young. You said yes. Without a subcommittee, we've only given a friend two days, we've agreed on some issues, some issues. We didn't get to the point, we made it clear. But it's sad that the things we've come to agree upon again, they come back here in an incontrovertible manner, and we're devastated. I don't want to say another word. Two, no motions. There's been a motion, a documentary housing facility. Friends, there's a lot of business documents in this country...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0270par0098	We have fulfilled your request.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0269par0099	But Master, Nurettin Bey, wait a minute. If I hadn't come and found you all the way out there, if I hadn't been looking for you, if I hadn't put Mr. Savant, Mr. Türel, behind me, what would these business-certified restaurants have been? We say we don't do wrong, we say we do right, but to do right, we need something to come to us.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0270par0100	We're contributing.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0269par0101	We don't get documents, we don't get information, and then you go out, you say, "Why do you object?" We object to documentation, ignorance. Mr. President, that's what you're cooking up. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0271par0104	Thank you. There is no change in my attitude because the second joke of Article 87 of the Civil Code is that amendment proposals can be submitted to the presidency from the publication of the bill or proposals. However, the motion cannot be filed until at least five MPs have signed the amendment proposal after the proposal or the proposal has been discussed. Another joke is that the president informs the commission and groups of the amendment proposal immediately. The amendment proposals are first submitted, then read and processed according to the order of contradiction. More than five signed motions read the first five signatures, added to the motion. The amendments to the amendment proposals of the Interior Charter are written on the date and time of the proposed amendments given after they have been submitted to the President, as part of the Civil Code provisions, followed by photocopies to the party groups, the commission and the government. All motions are distributed at the same time if the motions are given before the relevant substance is in order, but the motions, given at close to the order of the matter, are distributed from other proposals -- naturally -- later. At times, the disbanded motion then changes, thus the motion is redistributed. There may be a possibility that the motions can be mixed when several proposals have been submitted and the motions have been changed frequently. There is no problem with the implementation of the presidency. [[Continue]] There are four motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. We propose and propose that the Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way, in the framework of Article 3. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Cevdet Erdöl Osman love Look Suat Önal Nureddin Nebati "Abolition 7 of Article 3-4250 of the Law is redesigned as follows. MADDE 7 - Article 6 of this Law; A) From the 5,000 Turkish liras to the 200000 Turkish liras, against those who acted contrary to each of the bans mentioned in their first and second jokes, B) From 10,000 Turkish liras to 5,000 Turkish liras to businesses that act against curfews mentioned in their third, fourth, sixth and eleventh jokes, C) Against the seventh joke, from 5,000 Turkish liras to 50,000 Turkish liras, ) To producers and importers who violate the obligations and bans of eight, nine and ten jokes, as much as the market value of the goods that have been introduced in violation of these obligations and bans, as long as there is no less than 100,000 Turkish liras. D) To sellers violating bans on the 11th joke, from 10,000 Turkish liras to 100,000 Turkish liras, E) To those who act contrary to the bans of the fifth joke, the 5th article (k) of Article 8 of the Law on Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorials, dated 3/1/2002 and 4733 A administrative fine is fined. If the child's health is compromised as a result of violation of the law stated in Article 6 of Article 6, the sentence shall also be passed on the perpetrator under Article 194 of Article 5237, dated 26/9/2004, titled "acceptable substance for health." The Radio and Television Oversight Board is in charge of providing administrative fines for television and radios to provide administrative fines (a), (a) and (e) the administrative fines specified in the dams. It is also decided that the property of products that constitute the subject of the crime described in the first joke (c) is to be publicized. The Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorship is in charge of making this decision." Yes, members of lawmakers, since the three motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the release of article 3 of the current Law Proposal 463 from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Işım Mesut Dedeoğlu Enver Erdem The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Free Special Rahmi Love Türeli Aytüğ Atı Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Secrets by Darayya Leader Ibrahim Binici Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0272par0156	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0271par0157	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0273par0158	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0271par0159	Yes, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who wants to speak on the same terms.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0160	Now, Mr. President, I admire you. You stand up, you don't compromise, you say my style is correct. Good, good.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0271par0161	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0162	Mr. President, I have three motions. Your wonderful administration, your performance... One, in this motion -- Mr. Canikli gave it to you -- there's no harm on the 4th article.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0271par0163	Mr. Kaplan, please show it to Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0164	Mr. Canikli, there's no damage here.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0275par0165	The deputy director of the group didn't examine him?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0166	Mr. Canikli, this is your 2nd motion again regarding the 4th Amendment. You said "sell." You have a little paraffin, don't you?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0276par0167	Technical correction, yes.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0168	Mr. Canikli, this is your third motion on the 4th Amendment.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0276par0169	What does it say?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0170	Here you have written on the top.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0276par0171	We did that at the request of the opposition, our friends.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0277par0172	We have fulfilled the opposition's request.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0173	I admire your hard work and we admire this administration.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0276par0174	Any correction can be made before we start arguing.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0274par0175	Now, look, fellas, this way Congress can't make a healthy law, that way it can't be right governance, that way things can't be right. Now, we're making a motion, we're giving it up front, it's coming, the law is looking into it. After (e) the motion you have now made regarding the third article begins the disconnection. You added four jokes to a non-interesting joke. The law didn't get a chance to study it because you bring it in at such a minute that the bureaucrats are making these motions, I don't know, but it's wrong. Now that we're talking about something serious, we're talking about the future of our young people. There's a lot of sensitivity in the commission. I'm not at the point where the power in the Bosphorus can all live on Mojito cocktails, and even your companies can export non-alcoholic beer to all Arab countries, but when you set some arrangements, it has to be compatible with the country's realities. Now, someone came in through the door or through the Habur Gate, into the free shop, took something from the free shop, went out the door, went into the import, or started the ban. So the bag bill comes up, so here's the bag deal. There are some very clever motions you've made in this mess. In the proposals of the law, it says, "Let the law of income extend to 2023. " You have a political program until 2023. Friends, does the income tax extend according to your political programme? Well, have a heart! I mean, everything's a mess, everything's wrong, there's no need to mix everything up. Young people, all of us, all of our futures, let's make a future for them... thousands of our college students are out of work, come on, let's talk about them. Come on, let's talk about thousands, over 20,000 agricultural engineers can't get a job in our agricultural country. Let's talk about their social, cultural tomorrow. Let's talk about why they're fighting. How do we resolve this? Let's talk about peace and solution. There are fights every day at three colleges a day. Of course, look, I'm being very clear. Mr. Commissioner just gave us an example of an Anglo-Saxon country. Yes, most alcohol is consumed in the north, the most control is there, and the most illegal alcohol is produced there. But every country has a reality. Do you know that an 18 - year - old boy in Iceland is not allowed to go out alone after 7:00 p.m.? Why? Nature's tough. And a 21-year-old at 21 a.m. These are the countries where the order was established and the ban was established, where he could not go to the streets alone after 00. We understand all this, we tell each other. In an Inner Anatolia, in an İzmir, in an Antalya, the terms of tourism are different, the factors are different. But we don't like changing things here at the last minute that we're talking about each other on the commission, friends, our sincerity is getting damaged, so let's not do that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we do this wrong, we'll really have trouble doing business together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0278par0183	You say yes in the commission, they change it here.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0279par0184	Thank you. Enver Erdem, Elizığ MP who wants to speak on the same proposals.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0280par0187	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 3 of this bag of legislation that we're discussing. I salute your high council. Now, of course, as this law began to negotiate, some of the disputes began to emerge. One of them, regarding the number of rows of this law... was yesterday when the Oil Act was discussed, and you immediately brought it in today. Lawmakers were unable to do the necessary work, the people involved. Now, you know as well as I do that there are a lot of things that we don't really observe according to the regulations of drafting. But what's fundamental here is that you've tried to change the agenda by bringing a perception management, the perception management of your power, to ignore today's agenda, to bring a subject like alcohol that people would be more interested in. Now, that's one of the main reasons for arguing about the law, your attitude. If you really had any intention of protecting our young people from alcoholism and -- although alcohol consumption has increased 100 percent during the time of PATI rulings -- friends, we've made a mistake in this matter, as in many matters, and we've lacked one. Let's all fix this together. If you had said, all the groups here would have supported you. They explained that. But you're not doing your part to reduce alcoholism, and now you're trying to get political credit for alcoholism this time. So you're trying to get something out of something that you're responsible for. You're gonna have to pay for this. I told you. So in the presence of God, you will answer for them. You're trying to find ways and ways to make money even from alcohol. Now, dear lawmakers, again, what's in the arrangement you've made? You change it in the subcommittee, you change it in the top commission. Who gives you the liquor license? Should the managers give the property or the mayors give it to him? I was in charge of the estate at the time, and I was very angry at you for taking that authority from us. What'd you get it for? We're going to strengthen local governments. We're going to develop democracy. We're going to shrink central governance. What are you doing today? Yeah, who are you kidding? So I'm always telling you guys, you can fool the peasant Mehmet Agha, so that's how you arrange it, that's how you do it. Either way, you try to win votes, you manage perceptions, but people who know that ask you that. Brother, what are you trying to gain by taking this authority from us and giving it back to the estate? Wasn't the 200-meter thing in our legislation, fellas? The 7th article of the Law on Police Duty and Isaiah was already in the regulation based on it. What are you doing now? You're gonna make money here again, aren't you? Now, my friends, all of these things that you've done, in fact, our entire nation sees very clearly. Now, this third article is basically an arrangement for criminal figures, along with the new arrangements you've brought in. So what we basically want is for you to narrow down the difference between these numbers, the difference between the scissors, and the gap. Of course, we couldn't follow them because you were so secretive about the motions, what you did in the final situation. So there's a difference between 5,000 liras and 200,000 liras, 10,000 liras and 500,000 liras. Now, in order to prevent this pleasure, you have to bring an arrangement here. Dear MPs, again, the State shall take the necessary measures to protect young people from alcoholism, drugs, guilt, gambling, and other bad habits and ignorance. We'll help you with all the arrangements you'll bring in in this framework. And as a final statement, when you look at the consumption of alcohol in Turkey, between 2003 and 2008, you've already increased beer consumption from 450 million litres to 850 million litres, from 30 million litres to 42 million litres, from 14 million litres to 35 million litres. Then, come...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0281par0197	All kinds of consumption have increased.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0280par0198	You did. You were in charge, sir. If you can't do that, let the National Movement Party come and rule Turkey properly. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0281par0201	It's about prosperity, prosperity...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0282par0202	Yes, thank you. Now, it's Aytuğ Aterı, Mersin MP who wants to talk about the same proposals.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0283par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 3 of the Law Proposal on the Amendment to some Law and Law Orders of 463. I salute the law-respecting lawmakers, who keep all people equal in the eyes of the law, who argue that if there's a punishment for a crime, it's equal implementation for everyone. Deputies of the law organise Article 3 sentences. It doesn't really matter what he edits. We're discussing a substance that says, "I'll punish you for not living in my view of the world." What do we say in our motion? Come remove this material. Why do we call it up? Because the AKP does not even have the right to speak on punishment. Does the AKP have the right to say one word about punishment? Would a group of people here in this chair have the right to talk about punishment, under the fingernails of a AKP MP who attacked an MP in front of everyone? We don't think so. The AKP Group, which has watched the same attack repeat itself on the stand, does not really have the right to organise a penal clause. Would the AKP (AKP) who verbally attacked a female MP have the right to organize a penal clause, which, again, is in quotes, but waits for an opportunity to punish the other MPs immediately? I swear to God, no way. The AKP (AKP) who does not punish a member of parliament who utters unspeakable blasphemy in the High Assembly does not have the right to organise a penal clause, friends. What's worse, the AKP (AKP) who advocates a AKP MP who threatens to kill the main opposition MPs in the commissions has neither the right nor the right to organise a penal clause, friends. So, wow, sir, in this article, it's supposed to be a ten-dollar fine, wow, sir, it's supposed to be a $500,000 cut... how much will the citizens who see your idea of punishment and hear your idea of punishment give you credit? Dear friends, this law has nothing to do with punishment. This law is all ideology, and the rest is comedy. What's been happening here all morning is comedy. No, sir, the waiter or the busboy! What are we talking about, guys? I thought we were supposed to protect the young. So when you give a busboy, the kids get poisoned, the kids don't get poisoned when you give them a waiter? Where's your ideology? What kind of nonsense is that? Well, sir, if you give alcohol by two o'clock, the young will be protected, and the young will be miserable if given after two! Is such a thought possible, friends? But unfortunately, I put up a front for a tourist document fight, a business fight, a business dispute. I signed here. With such nonsense, this Parliament is humiliated. But we know why this was brought here in such a hurry. When AKP's votes start to fall, religious emotional exploitation goes through the roof. In the polls, you saw the AKP's votes fall, and immediately you embraced it. And without enough debate on the commissions, and before we even got the number of desks by noon this morning, you immediately brought the law here, so you're trying to send a message to your base. Look, we quickly make a law that has been waiting for you for ten years. You are trying to deliver the message. Look at this way of living, for God's sake. Comedy, I swear to God, I've been watching you guys with cramps in my stomach. What kind of nonsense is that? He says, "He didn't come." He says, "He's not coming. He's opening up a discussion of procedure, and the other one has to do something. How can such a life be healthy? I mean, is it possible to say that you make a good law in an environment where the motion is changed per minute? But that's how you run the country. Friends, I wonder what people who drink will be sober tomorrow morning, but who never sobers up.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0217	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0285par0220	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0221	I'll submit the motions to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Çam, Mr. Öz, Mr. İkturk, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Bayraktutan and Mr. Bridgel. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. We propose and propose that the Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way, in the framework of Article 3. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "Abolition 7 of Article 3-4250 of the Law is redesigned as follows. MADDE 7 - Article 6 of this Law; A) From the 5,000 Turkish liras to the 200000 Turkish liras, against those who acted contrary to each of the bans mentioned in their first and second jokes, B) From 10,000 Turkish liras to 5,000 Turkish liras to businesses that act against curfews mentioned in their third, fourth, sixth and eleventh jokes, C) Against the seventh joke, from 5,000 Turkish liras to 50,000 Turkish liras, ) To producers and importers who violate the obligations and bans of eight, nine and ten jokes, as much as the market value of the goods that have been introduced in violation of these obligations and bans, as long as there is no less than 100,000 Turkish liras. D) To sellers violating bans on the 11th joke, from 10,000 Turkish liras to 100,000 Turkish liras, E) To those who act contrary to the bans of the fifth joke, the 5th article (k) of Article 8 of the Law on Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorials, dated 3/1/2002 and 4733 A administrative fine is fined. If the child's health is compromised as a result of violation of the law stated in Article 6 of Article 6, the sentence shall also be passed on the perpetrator under Article 194 of Article 5237, dated 26/9/2004, titled "acceptable substance for health." The Radio and Television Oversight Board is in charge of providing administrative fines for television and radios to provide administrative fines (a), (a) and (e) the administrative fines specified in the dams. It is also decided that the property of products that constitute the subject of the crime described in the first joke (c) is to be publicized. The Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorship is in charge of making this decision." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0286par0250	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0251	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0287par0252	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0288par0253	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0254	I'm reading the reason: The aim was to reorganise the system of matter by ensuring proportionality and measurement between the regulations for alcoholic beverages and the criminal charges to be implemented. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 4 there are four motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4rd edition of the current 463 Row Numbered Bill. Article 1. The statement in its joke is to be changed to "the municipality's private administration of the city or the municipality's private administration outside the municipality's municipality" in our non-city districts. The expression "top" in the first sentence of his joke is also taken out, 2. We would like to add the declaration of the first, middle and high school students to come before the declaration of the lecture halls in his joke. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article Ilga 9 shall be changed as follows by Article 4250 of Ispirto and Ispirto. Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim İlm Reşat Right ▪ The total, retail or open sale of such products is required to be at least a hundred metres from the door between the doors and the gas filling facilities, the school halls, the temples, the prison, the reformatory, the bus terminals, the shiny, the flammable and so forth. When the municipality or the State Special Authority gives documents, they observe a 100-meter permit as of date. The 100-meter requirement in this article does not apply to tourism businesses. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. We propose and propose that the second joke of the Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way, and the following jokes be added to the article. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Cevdet Erdöl Osman love Look Suat Önal Nureddin Nebati ▪ It is imperative that there be at least a hundred metres between the retail or open sales of the products within the Law and the knitting institutes and the schoolhouses, the student dorms and the temples of worship, at least one hundred meters from the door. The distance requirement in this joke does not apply for tourism-certified businesses. The distance requirement is called as of the date given the sales certificate. The 2nd joke provides permission to offer open alcoholic beverages at the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Agency for permanent activities in registered structures as an immovable cultural presence within the range of distance. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 4 of the Law Proposal on Changes in Laws and Law Orders of 463 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Secrets by Darayya Leader Ibrahim Binici Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0289par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0290	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0290par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0292	I'm reading the reason: Local governments are supposed to be the approving authority of law enforcement, while matter and local governments have been forced to seek the opinion of law enforcement forces. In this regard, our age of design does not conform with the understanding of local government. In addition, local governments do not approve of tourism-certified businesses. Such a document, which will shape the city's zoning plan, is wrong to decide without the approval and control of local governments. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0291par0298	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0299	We've got enough to decide... All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0291par0301	No.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0302	Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. We propose and propose that the second joke of the Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way, and the following jokes be added to the article. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends ▪ It is imperative that there be at least a hundred metres between the retail or open sales of the products within the Law and the knitting institutes and the schoolhouses, the student dorms and the temples of worship, at least one hundred meters from the door. The distance requirement in this joke does not apply for tourism-certified businesses. The distance requirement is called as of the date given the sales certificate. The 2nd joke provides permission to offer open alcoholic beverages at the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Agency for permanent activities in registered structures as an immovable cultural presence within the range of distance. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0292par0314	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0315	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0293par0316	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0317	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Changes to allow open alcoholic beverages to be granted by TAPDK for continuous activities in registered structures as immovable cultural presence within 100m distances have been intended. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article Ilga 9 shall be changed as follows by Article 4250 of Ispirto and Ispirto. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends ▪ The total, retail or open sale of such products is required to be at least a hundred metres from the door between the doors and the gas filling facilities, the school halls, the temples, the prison, the reformatory, the bus terminals, the shiny, the flammable and so forth. When the municipality or the State Special Administration gives documents, they observe a 100-meter permit as of date. The 100-meter condition in this article does not apply for tourism-certified businesses." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0294par0326	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0327	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0295par0328	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0284par0329	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0296par0331	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a commitment to our motion on Article 4 but as time went on, it really began to become more serious about life, and the Justice and Development Party really began to get drunk without drinking. Change it in the subcommittee, change it in the top commission, change it in the General Assembly, change it again in the General Assembly, change it again. It's called a roundabout. And I'd like to draw attention to that. The fourth article stipulates that alcoholic beverages are at least 100 metres away from knitting educational institutions and classrooms, student dorms and places of worship. The arrangement in the proposal contains some poor provisions in terms of public order and public health, and we have submitted a motion for it. According to our motion, the prison, juvie, bus terminals, sparks, flammables, and so on should be assessed in this context, as well as in the gas filling facilities, which are sold and stored. The amendments to the motion must also be made in order to satisfy this deficiency. We also expressed in our talks in the morning that alcohol consumption in our country increased by more than 100 per cent from 2003 to 2012. We especially want to draw attention to the alarming increases in alcohol addiction between our children and our young ones. In Article 58 of our Constitution, titled the Protection of Youth, the State takes measures to protect young people from alcoholism, drug abuse, guilt, gambling, and other bad habits. We also want to express that we support and are ready to support all legal provisions to protect our citizens from their addiction to alcohol, drugs, and other harmful habits, especially our children and young ones. However, Mr. President, I would like to share with you the AKP's arrangement to use alcohol or substance abuse in elementary schools. Please, I'd appreciate it if you'd take notes. According to Article 109 (c) subcommittee No. 16 of the Article 109 of the National Ministry of Education Institutions of Education, published on August 27, 2003 -- please note that students who use alcohol or addicts, or who encourage others to use them -- were sentenced to exchange schools. On August 20, 2007, the National Ministry of Education of Education, published in 26619 newspaper, has been modified to encourage others to use alcohol or addictive substances, as if it is free to possess them. Where and why was it needed, and only encouragement left? The 61st Article of Elementary and Education Law No. 222 was required to be at least 200 metres from the school buildings to the door, but it was 200 metres from the AKP's 12/11/2003 First Education Act to 5002 and Special Teaching Institutions Act, with a change of 100 meters, such as the bar, bar, and the electronic gaming centers. Because of the cultural structure, the fact that there are tea stoves in every street that are licensed to a coffee shop and a coffee shop has been cited for this change. Because of the coffeehouse and the teapots, it's not believable to us that the distance is reduced to 100 meters. With these thoughts, I look forward to your support of our motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0297par0341	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4rd edition of the current 463 Row Numbered Bill. Article 1. The statement in its joke is to be changed to "the municipality's private administration of the city or the municipality's private administration outside the municipality's municipality" in our non-city districts. The expression "top" in the first sentence of his joke is also taken out, 2. We would like to add the declaration of the first, middle and high school students to come before the declaration of the lecture halls in his joke. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0298par0348	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0297par0349	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0299par0350	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0297par0351	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0300par0353	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party to express our opinion on the motion we have made regarding the 4th amendment of the Law Proposal 463 that we are discussing. Now, as we look at the way the proposal came in, we've seen that it was first sent to the Plan and Budget Commission, the original commission, the Justice Commission; the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission; Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission; Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission. But I'm a member of the Justice Commission, and we haven't received this kind of offer, and we haven't been asked to have this kind of opinion. Now, it really saddens all of us that the offer was brought to the General Assembly in this way, as if we were smuggling from so many fires, without actually being seriously examined, without reviewing the shortcomings or shortcomings. What's the meaning of what you want to do with all these fires? With this alcohol issue, are you doing this to hide the fact that the AKP is now involved in more people's eyes? I suppose that's why you're doing this, but there's no other point in bringing it in so quickly. On the other hand, I'd like to ask you again what commissions do. These issues are discussed in the commissions, referred to the subcommittee, and then spoken in the main commission, but there are renegotiates here. So you're not paying attention to any of the issues that have been discussed or agreed on, let's eliminate commissions, no commissions. You do what you want, as the ruling majority, and I suggest you remove these commissions. Because there are internal regulations talks, and these commissions will be eliminated, that's what I'm suggesting. Now, in this proposal, we say that specifically, these liquor-selling licenses are listed as educational institutions, classrooms, student dorms, and places of worship that are 100 meters away. But retail places would actually have to be 100 meters away like this. Well, I'm also curious as to why you won't approve of our motion for wholesale sales, places that can't be bought or taken. It's gonna be sold out because no one's gonna get a chance to buy it and drink it. That's why we need our motion to accept it. On the other hand, you said it had to be 100 meters away from the classrooms. But when you say classrooms, there are classrooms prepared for KPSS, or, let's just say, colleges prepared for other exams. So we remind you again that these classrooms should be related to the first, middle, and high school classrooms, and that limitation should be related to those classrooms. Therefore, we ask for your support in this very positive, very reasonable motion. Maybe, a little bit more, to make things right. Now, I'm going to say, there's a public saying, and I don't know if you're aware of that. Now he's trying, it's done in the house of worship, no one would want to be abused. The meeting was held at the meeting house, the alcohol was smoked outside, but now, with the AKP government, many of the officers, especially because of their future pressures, hold the meeting outside to show you off, but they drink alcohol in their homes. You're causing this kind of hypocrisy, or by scaring people, to create this kind of pressure, and you're causing it to happen. I'd like to start here, IV. With Murat's logic, you're actually moving. IV. Murat banned tobacco, alcohol and coffee in 1631, using the great fire in Istanbul as an excuse for the establishment of state authority. Those who didn't comply were killed at that time. Four hundred years from now -- we're in 2013 -- you're acting on the same logic, banning alcohol and smoking until the end. In the same way, I'm wondering when you're going to ban coffee to make people feel more about government authority to create your own kind of person. I guess it'll be his turn. And since coffee is a fun drink, you'll think about it over time in case it has to be banned. The 58th article of our Constitution says that young people really need to be protected -- drugs, gambling, or gambling -- say that they need to be saved from bad habits or guilt and alcoholism, but friends don't say "alcoholden." The World Health Organization also says that excessive consumption of alcohol is bad for your health. You're trying to get alcohol out of human life. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm not done talking, but I hope I got the right messages. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0301par0366	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final joke of the 5th article of the current Law Proposal 463 rows be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Işım Mesut Dedeoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu The 2nd joke of the 9th article of this law is that the company's blood and blood are inherited to relatives in the first degree, selling, donating and so forth. in the form of an era, and the publication of this substance cannot be applied for businesses with a sales certificate before the date of its release. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. "Admissible products cannot be released from this date at the end of its third joke, "by receiving the appropriate opinion of the Ministry of Health" to the second joke of the temporary article of Article 4250, which is envisioned to be added to the framework of Article 5 into Article 4250." The fourth joke of the sentence, "before history," is that the license to open the business and to end the joke, "The owners of this company can turn their businesses over to their first and second blood relatives." We provide and propose that the sentence and the material be added to the following jokes. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Cevdet Erdöl Nurettin Nebati Osman Love Look Suat Önal "Those who employ people who are not 18 years old in the history of the release of this substance, in the production, in the market, in the sale, and in the open presentation can continue to employ them for a year from the date of publication of this substance. According to the current coolers with brands, emblems, and logo of alcoholic beverages at retail liquor stores, the release of this substance can be used for three years from the date of publication." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th draft law of the current 463 rows. The signages of the workplaces, or the sales of open alcoholic beverages, in the article, are taken earlier in the form of the signposts at work or at open liquor stores, and all logo-free tools and equipment belonging to manufacturers, and also in the form of a company that is owned by someone or others from the date of the release of the blood. And two. It can be overturned unconditionally and unconditionally. We provide and propose that the joke be added. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Musa Çam Ayşe Eşer Danışoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0302par0392	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0301par0393	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0303par0394	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0301par0395	Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu, İstanbul MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0304par0397	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th Amendment of Law Proposal 463. I salute you all. It includes the need to have at least 100 metres away from educational institutions, classrooms, dorms and places of worship. That rule already existed, the classrooms have just been added here. This 100-meter rule will not apply to tourism-certified businesses because of the efforts of our group, but the right is only known to the owner. When the owner turns over his business, his license is revoked. We want this property right to be transferred to the owner's first and second-degree relatives. It's a right, it's an injustice, we've made this motion to make it right, that investment is ignored, that work is done. Dear lawmakers, the reason for this bill is to protect young people. That's a very meaningful, very valuable reason. Well, then I'm asking you: why don't you riot when the police break their skulls, who want to protect the young? You want to protect the young people, but why don't you save them from the pepper spray? Why don't you protect them from the disproportionate power of the security forces? The countries that give young people a future, identity, job, hope are not trying to rule them by bans and punishments. On social media today, a student wrote: "It would be wonderful if there was a ban on pepper gas and not a ban on alcohol within 100 metres of the schools. " Turkey has no problem with alcoholism. We're against selling liquor to under 18-year-olds, we find it wrong to be encouraged to drink, to count the skills, to explain the damages. In any case, deterrentism is provided with high taxes. It's our problem with violating rights, basic freedoms. Another important reason for the law is to protect public health. You want to protect the public's health? There was a newspaper report today, and you must have seen it: too much arsenic was detected in the drinking water in the 18 villages of Sivas. This country can't drink the water flowing through the taps. This is about public health, isn't it? It is said that GMO products are moving in the market. Are we going to protect the health of the young and the community by building nuclear power plants, by encouraging individual arms? Members of parliament, the people of this country have vital problems, and it is not among them to determine where to drink and what to drink. Since the ultimate goal of your proposal for the law is to ban alcohol, let's take a look at countries where alcohol is prohibited. This is Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Butan, Bangladesh, Iran, Jordan, Egypt, Vietnam. You know as well as I do that the common characteristics of these countries are not the traditions of democracy and respect for the way their citizens live, for individual freedoms. It is state despotism to impose a single way of life, to rule a person who lives differently than his own culture, to rule a person who thinks differently. In what democracy was it seen to push drinkers out of the public eye, to try to discredit them by tagging them? Powers, which are the goal of advanced democracy, do not aim to shape society in line with their own culture of faith and life, to replace the one who is not like him. We can see that those who said they would fight the bans have taken up community engineering by taking refuge in the bans. They're trying to legitimize every law they put in. The conservative lifestyle pressure that we want to create in society, the daily Internet bans, the wiretaps, the media pressure, the women who die; the women who are dragged, driven, gased, beaten, arrested, the protesters, the students, the prisoners who are tried -- the desire to join forces of power -- it's unlikely to say that our regime resembles democracy. I wonder if that was the choice of our people. Mr. Prime Minister once said: "Personal approaches, personal understandings are pressure, persecution, injustice. We wish that he would not pass the law to deny it. " I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0305par0406	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 463 S. "Admissible products cannot be released from this date at the end of its third joke, "by receiving the appropriate opinion of the Ministry of Health" to the second joke of the temporary article of Article 4250, which is envisioned to be added to the framework of Article 5 into Article 4250." The fourth joke of the sentence, "before history," is that the license to open the business and to end the joke, "The owners of this company can turn their businesses over to their first and second blood relatives." We provide and propose that the sentence and the material be added to the following jokes. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and Friends "Those who employ people who are not 18 years old in the history of the release of this substance, in the production, in the market, in the sale, and in the open presentation can continue to employ them for a year from the date of publication of this substance. According to the current coolers with brands, emblems, and logo of alcoholic beverages at retail liquor stores, the release of this substance can be used for three years from the date of publication." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0306par0415	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0305par0416	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0307par0417	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0305par0418	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Such changes and arrangements are intended to be made in order to resolve the hesitations that may arise in the application and clarify the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final joke of the 5th article of the current Law Proposal 463 rows be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and Friends The 2nd joke of the 9th article of this law is that the company's blood and blood are inherited to relatives in the first degree, selling, donating and so forth. in the form of an era, and the publication of this substance cannot be applied for businesses with a sales certificate before the date of its release. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0308par0427	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0305par0428	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0309par0429	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0305par0430	Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu has asked for a statement on the proposal, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0310par0432	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Turkish nation's esteemed MPs on the amendment motion on Article 5 of Proposition 463. I salute your high council. The last joke in article 1 of which was brought with our amendment proposal is requested to be changed. In addition to those with sales documents before the application of the substance, it is intended to include the exceptions of businesses which have been transferred to first degree blood and blood relations. As it is known, many businesses operate in our country as a family business. Other members of the family continue to operate in cases such as the business owner's death, aging, illness. It would be appropriate for businesses to be made exceptions without regulation, under the principle of maintaining the constitutional principle of the rights won, so that it will not be harmed by the arrangement. The bag we negotiated was subject to a review by the Plan and Budget Commission, the main commission, without any additional commission reports. The AKP mentality, which fits the concept of the bag of law into its own illegal understanding, sees no harm in violating the Constitution, the Civil Code. While this understanding, which is far from the understanding of the legal state, stands out, the Parliamentary Presidency believes that instead of correcting these wrongs, it will save the situation by having its MPs surveyed for satisfaction these days. In this parliament, the Parliamentary Council, which may be considered the honor of the House, can be violated every day. This Parliament is not a transparent parliament. Answers to MPs' verbal and written question motions are not correct and correct. The opposition views are not taken into account when the Turkish nation and its state are conducting legislation in this parliament. This Parliament is run by a party headquarters. A law out of parliament after opposition views that have been ignored has to be tasted two or three times before it has even completed its year, and this Parliament's work is not followed by the Turkish nation. Critical talks are set for days and hours without television broadcasts. It's much more important for the Council's reputation to address these problems than to send us a survey of satisfaction. Mr. President, it is difficult to say that the AKP governments, established since 2002, have succeeded in fighting alcohol. For example, over 15 years of age alcohol consumption has exceeded 1 litre in the AKP period; in primary school, at least 15 per cent of alcohol users have increased; in secondary education and higher education, the proportion of our children is 50 per cent. According to 2003, alcohol consumption increased nearly 2.5 times. The age of alcohol is reduced to 11. While the AKP has targeted alcohol to protect young people from the bad habits mentioned in Article 58 of the Constitution, it does not mention an arrangement for gambling mentioned in the same article. The AKP also has a failed report card at the point of fighting prostitution. In 2004, the hand of the AKP (AKP) who dismissed adultery as a crime because the European Union wanted it to be a crime does not agree with the prostitution file. Drugs is the most unsuccessful area in the AKP. As a member of parliament, we often hear of the hostility of drug traffickers to each other, the presence of drug manufacturers and traffickers, the abundance of our children who use drugs. Again, there are now many requests for drug treatment among those who ask for our help as MPs. Drug-related deaths are now becoming a single in Turkey. Parents are practically begging us to get their kids off the drugs. A dose of drugs has dropped to $7.5 lira. Just a few days ago, the parents of Hasan Gencer, who died from the disease of using this cheap drug, asked us to express their rebellion. Our advice to the government is that instead of producing evaluation and politics over alcohol, it fulfills its duty to warn and protect society against all bad habits. With these feelings, I request the acceptance of our motion, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0311par0444	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0312par0445	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit06spe0311par0446	I'll call. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0311par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 5th article of the proposal, Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu and his friends were unable to decide whether to vote.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0313par0003	There is no government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0311par0004	Now I'm going to put the motion back to your votes.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0313par0005	There is no government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0311par0006	I will, sir, just a second.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0314par0007	Here, sir. The government is here, Mr. President. After the vote, the government...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0315par0009	But you're waiting for him, sir, the General Assembly is open.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0316par0010	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0317par0011	You can't open it, Mr. President, the government's not in place.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0316par0012	Read the past reports, and see when the government and the Commission are asked.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0317par0013	Oh, come on! You're just doing what you see in front of your eyes. Shame on you! Then you can't open it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0316par0014	Patience, please, I'll ask.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0318par0015	What are we waiting for, sir?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0316par0016	Mr. Congressman, take a look at the transcripts, find out when the government and commission will be asked when they're suspended. You had to make me say it.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0319par0017	You learn, you learn!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0318par0018	You're still arguing, to buy time.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0316par0019	Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to call a decision-holder: those who accept the motion, those who do not accept it, there is enough of a decision, there is enough of it, the motion is not accepted. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 463. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes in accordance with the motion accepted: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the current 463 Rows Numbered Bill. In the last paragraph of the article, we propose that the expression "alcoholic beverages" be changed in the form of all alcoholic beverages. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0320par0031	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0316par0032	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0321par0033	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0316par0034	Uður Bayraktutan, Artvin MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0322par0035	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 6 of Law Proposal 463. I salute your high council. First of all, I would like to share with you my opinion on how healthy it is to have a law that is so important that it comes before the House as a bag of laws. I'm also a member of the Constitutional Commission. Earlier, there was an offer of law on elections, on the basic provisions of elections, and on the voting of Turks abroad. Again, there was a motion for this bag bill earlier, and I'd like to share it with you. Here in the Law on Elections 298, especially during the trial, the case was dropped if the republic's prosecutors didn't prosecute within two years of the election, if they didn't press charges. A six-month motion has been made for this to be changed. In this motion, we discussed the commissions, asking who you were saving. Mr. Secretary Bekir Bozdağ was here a moment ago, and he said: "Now that you've been so persistent, let's withdraw this motion." We said: "All right, there are no problems." And he withdrew. In fact, I was here giving a speech. They said, "Let's not go into that thing." They withdrew the motion. But then a few months after that, we found out that they put him in the bag bill, and that's how they edited it into the inside of the proposal. First of all, I'd like to point out that we don't think this is appropriate. Why? Because when you bring in a bag of laws like this, I'd like to make it clear, my dear friends, that you have overlooked the possibility of reviewing and control of the House. But other than that, the fact that we've been discussing this way since this morning, especially in the lower commissions, in the commissions, where there's been a serious debate between the groups, there's been some agreement between the parties, and there's been a debate here, which means that this concept proves that this compromise doesn't mean anything. Now, all of these friends of ours, all of our concerns... if we could meet on the same level... as you have suggested... if we could meet on the same level... in terms of the damage to alcohol, the damage to society... we can accept that... but at this point, unfortunately, we don't share that thought with you. Why? Because as it is clearly stated here in our opposition, we believe that this demand is ideological. Why is this law being brought in? Look, I want to share something with you about this. Mr. St. Babushcu, your Istanbul County President, has made an interesting speech at a meeting he had attended recently. I urge you to listen carefully to this conversation. It says, Mr. Mayor, in our ten-year period of power, those who share with us one way or another will not be able to share with us in the next ten years. Because, over the past decade, we've been doing a liquidation process and a definition, freedom, law, justice. Even though they couldn't digest us one way or another -- let's say the liberals -- in some way or another -- have somehow been divided in this process. However, the next term is the period of construction. The period of construction will not be as they would like it to be. Therefore, those commoners will not be able to be with us. Those who walked with us yesterday, one way or another, will be divided this time by forces against us tomorrow. Because Turkey will be built, and the future will be rehabilitated, and there will be no future that they can accept. For him, we are entering a difficult and difficult period. He says, "Your mayor of the province." So the era we've been through is a liquidation process, and the new period in the next ten years will be a construction process. Now, my fellow lawmakers, is this bill the bill of this period of construction, or is this bill one of the proposals of the next decade? Now, I'd like to share this with you as part of the process of the new Turkey, described by the mayor of the province. My dear friends, now, when we look at the debates here on the commission, when we just looked at the scissors on the fines here, for example, it starts at 10,000 TL, it goes up to 500,000 TL. Such a subjective assessment of administrative fines with such broad discretion related to the law does bring us to bear in mind the fact that the goal is to change the way of life in the country, rather than the damage done by alcohol. In the coming period, now, when we look at the sanctions in the earlier laws, it's impossible to accept them, to explain them to the community. Alcohol is harmful, so let's do all sorts of things, let's sign under it, but if we put you people's privacy, individual before the state, we're building a new constitution in front of us in a constitutional process, we're putting the state aside, first we're putting the individual's freedom first. Unfortunately, you're interfering with freedoms, you're interfering with life. I mean, we can't possibly accept that. I wanted to share these with you. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0323par0047	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0324par0049	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0323par0050	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the motion has been rejected, there is enough to decide. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7 of the 463 Numbered Bill in question. In this article, we would like to see the expression changed to.31.12.2023. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 7 of Law Proposal 463, we propose that the declaration of the Law be changed in the form of.31,12,2023. Erkan Akçay Alim Işım Mehmet Şandir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0325par0071	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0323par0072	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0326par0073	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0323par0074	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0327par0076	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion regarding the 7th Amendment of Law Proposal 463, which has been discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. This is one of the non-alcoholic substances of the proposal. In Article 75, added to Law 5838 in 2009, the provision of the income tax, which was calculated after the minimum reduction of income from R&D and support personnel in exchange for their work, was estimated to be reduced to 90 per cent for PhDs and 80 per cent for others from taxing tax. The duration of this support is extended to 31/12/2013, with which we meet. It would be more appropriate to have a positive arrangement and to extend the time even longer, or even to become a permanent substance, not foreseen. Essentially, the minimum wage must not be taxed, the tax burden of all workers must be lightened. The Constitutional Compromise Commission has announced that no taxes from minimum wage are accepted by all parties. We've submitted the necessary law proposal to the Speaker of Parliament long ago as the National Movement Party. In our proposal, we envisioned no taxes on minimum wage, and the minimum wage of all employees be taxed. So the net minimum wage increases by 7 per cent per year, and the cost to the employer is no change. If all parties agree not to collect taxes from minimum wage, why don't we make this arrangement? There's no need to write to the Constitution about not being taxed on minimum wage. Don't fool the minimum wage. If all parties are sincere, we can include the arrangement to please the minimum wage. As a nationalist movement party, we're ready and supportive. According to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, anyone who works has a fair and affordable wage, which provides a life for himself and his family in accordance with the dignity of mankind, and is completed by all means of social protection, if necessary. The cost of carrying a social rights quality under the guarantee of basic human rights is the source and basis of the minimum wage. In Article 55 of our Constitution, the minimum wage assessment includes the conditions of living and the economic situation of the country. The minimum wage is defined in the regulation as a minimum wage for meeting the employee's mandatory needs, such as food, housing, clothing, health, transport and culture. The government's official statistical institution, TÜİK, calculated that the total monthly expenditure of a single worker should be $1,025.40 as of November 2012. However, the net minimum wage is 773 liras for the first six months of 2013 and 804 liras for the second six months. The minimum wage has been set, and the provisions of the Constitution and related legislation have been ignored, and the spending of a worker calculated by the TİK has not been taken into account. As of April 2013, a family of four has to spend the amount of food to be healthy, balanced and adequate, so the hunger limit is $1,012. The current minimum wage does not even cover food spending. Today's minimum wage is the price of misery. Even a man who works for food costs more than that minimum wage. The AKP has already established an exploitation scheme by promoting subcontractorisation in all areas, and considers minimum wagers to be modern slaves. He can't get along with minimum wage. How can they live on this money? They've all fallen into debt due to severe income shortages. According to the Central Bank reports, 53 per cent of those who owe consumer loans are paid employees. Again, 39% of those who owe consumer loans produce a thousand liras and income below. These official figures show how the AKP government has made minimum wagers, workers in debt, and how it drags them out.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0328par0084	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0329par0086	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit07spe0328par0087	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0328par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on the 11th article of the proposal was not enough to vote on the motion of Deputy Heromarash Mesut Dedeoglu and his friends. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 463. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 11th draft law of the current 463 rows. We would like to change the terms in the article to start at the beginning of the year after the opening. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0330par0012	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0328par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0331par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0328par0015	Muharrem Ilk, MP Erzincan, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0332par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Before I start my speech, I've written a few words to fill five minutes, and I'd like to read those words first. One of them is a tyrant, a dictator, who doesn't recognize freedom of speech and conduct to those under his rule, who rely on meaning, power. The other is someone who enjoys harm, hurt, or evil, and has bad intentions. Another word I wrote while sitting down is "hypocracy" - the fact that it is not the same at heart; do not try to appear or display anything other than what you know, what you believe, and what you are. Hypocrisy is also a very bad weapon that partially encourages all harmful and evil manifestations of selfishness and selfishness, and partly masking them. Hypocrisy is a selfish endeavor to gain a selfish advantage by hearing, knowing, believing, accepting, and pretending otherwise. Hypocrisy or insincerity is such a disease that it reflects on society and affects society very badly, although it is the person's own in the first place. Another word is that a person describes superior qualities that are not really compatible with him; it is a sign of a deep spiritual problem, based on irrational beliefs about his delusions, his abilities, his qualities, and his life. I read all this to fill the time completely. Now, when we look at the law, of course, there's a lot more banking arrangements in Article 11 about banking, but what you say is that you're doing it to protect young people, which is most concerned about the sum of the law. You want to protect the young, it's beautiful. No one would object to that. Just as we do not oppose peace, we always strive to protect young people with alcohol. When you want to protect young people, you always put your goal into spiteful youth... and when we say it, you get angry, but you make it look like a target. With 4+4, you decided to send the girls to the husband, send the men to work at the factory. You mix everything up in society, completely disrupt society. First you treat us soft and soft, but when you come here, you do everything you can to transform everything. You make terrible distinctions in hiring. Even when you take disabled people, you discriminate. You're ignoring a certain majority of society. In the balcony talks, all who vote for us are our brothers, our friends, our relatives; we will treat all alike. On the second day, you forget your messages of unity, and you receive instructions for the opposite. In order to take the blood of criminals and map the gene. Analyze after the child is born. If it is harmful to the country, to the nation, and to this country, let it be destroyed without walking. You are bringing back the mentality that says, "OH! This is your manager. One out of four people are on antidepressants, Mr. Secretary. 38 million antidepressants sold last year, 160 percent increase in ten years. At most, children between 15 and 25 years of age use it, young ones use it. In this society, 84.1 percent of 75 million live on the edge of poverty, bordering on hardship. The bagel is the poor man's toast, he can't find meat. One of the four people, as I just said, is on antidepressants, and the age of alcohol abuse is down to 12, 13. 15 of the 100 students are using drugs, now entering the schoolyards, not outside, but in the garden. In ten years, prostitution has increased 220 percent, women's murders have increased by 1,400 percent, business accidents have increased by 114%. You know very well there's an explosion in illegal cigarettes. Go to the east, to the southeast, where the police roam, where they sell illegal cigarettes. You think it's going down, it's not going down, it's going up. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has dropped out of business, and he's staffing me to see who I can appoint as manager and who I can make assistant manager. And he never goes and analyzes society for any reason. There are distinctions in this society about who I'm going to give aid to. We already know what 75 million is now. As for the banks, what you want to bring to this bill is that consumer loans, which cost $7 billion in 2002, are now up to 250 billion euros. In 2002, the number of people who owe $1.6 million to banks has now increased to 13 million. With this arrangement, they guarantee that they will now make 26 billion dollars with the benefits you will provide to those foreign banks you will save. How well Erbakan the deceased said it to you, my friends, why don't you wash the leaves of the tree and not wash them? The root of the tree is rotten, that's bad. He said, he's right. Right now, I think you're completely corrupting society. You're trying to achieve your goal to do something for yourself, but you're trying to destroy society. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0333par0028	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the Küran course to be added after the declaration of the 12th article of the current Law Proposal 463. Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Işım Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft law in the current 463 rows. Article 2. The other expenses in the joke are to be removed from the draft text and replaced with the expression "other business expenses" (e.g. other business expenses). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ihsan Özkes Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Number 463 is the 12th draft of the Law's Proposal on Changes in Some Laws and Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel The Leader of İbrahim's Bizarre Sırrıyya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0334par0051	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0333par0052	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0335par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0333par0054	I'm having it read. With this arrangement, the Koran course is among the duties of the General Directorate of Prime Ministerial Education Services to organise the budgets for housing and pensions' needs and other expenditures as of fiscal year. I mean, all the expenses of students who study in the Koran course and stay in the dorms were envisioned by the budget. If such an arrangement is to be made, students who study in knitting and institutes of higher education must also be covered by the budget. Otherwise, it would be an arrangement involving the government's direct intervention in religious services. The government's direct intervention in religious activities, its shaping and taking over its administration, the events of the 28 February period, and the 2nd time of those decisions. It brings matter to memory. "Special dorms, foundations, and schools associated with the cults must be supervised by the state's competent bodies and hereby transferred to the Ministry of National Education." It is the AKP's effort to take control of religion, such as the juntaciers, who have identified himself as the victim of February 28th. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft law in the current 463 rows. Article 2. The other expenses in the joke are to be removed from the draft text and replaced with the expression "other business expenses" (e.g. other business expenses). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0336par0065	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0333par0066	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0337par0067	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0333par0068	İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0338par0070	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding Article 12 of Law Proposal 463. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the existing Law is intended for students who study in these courses to open and manage dorms and pensions. The 12th article of this draft law proposal is: opening and managing dorms and boarding houses for students who study in these courses, arranging budgets related to housing and pensions and other expenses as of the fiscal year, conducting all kinds of purchase-and-period transactions of dorms and hostels. Members of lawmakers, it is understood that the students need the peace and emancipation, but the budgets for other expenditures are said to be uncertain here. I wish other expenses were clearly defined. Note the last part of the article:.. to conduct all kinds of transactions of housing and lodgings. All transactions here are open-ended, inviting pleasure and abuse. Does it include the purchase and sale of housing and boarding houses? Members of parliament, the diet must be taken care of. There's no use to our high religion or our country if the diet is more involved in trade and politics than in religion. There's one thing that's said among the people and few exceptions: "Money destroys a man." We wish that the Religion doesn't break with its enormous budget, with its money, with its pilgrimages, with the money of the Dianet Foundation. Are administrative and judicial investigations launched on the diet for reasons such as corruption, embezzlement, irregularity, increasing every year or so? The 5 per cent discretion from pilgrims came from answers to my question proposals, where 400,000 Turkish liras were spent on the building repairs of the President of Religious Affairs, and Mr. President had to give up sitting in this building. In the 2011 pilgrimage accounts, 14 million,500,000 dollars have still not been answered in the question motion that I gave about a year and two months ago about the allegations that an additional amount of money had been spent, that a false bill had been provided to close it, and that false bills had been seized on a tip. On the other hand, the Competitiveness Agency has declared that diabetes does not conform to commercial ethics, it is unfairly competitive. Unfortunately, the Religion is moving rapidly towards converting to religious trade. There's no pockets in the cage. The language says, "He's swallowing his talk, he's swallowing his own flock." Members of parliament, the shift from the religious axis of Ataturk, established by Ataturk, leads to political and trade, which leads to tampering with the genes of the secular Republic of Turkey. The religion is not satisfied with its most expensive money; it is not satisfied with the money it buys from the base stations it builds on the mosques; it is not satisfied with its enormous budget, which includes taxes from the Aleki, which it excludes and beyond; it is not satisfied with its rents from six or so businesses; neither is the Diet Foundation satisfied with its incomes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Religion is not satisfied with money. Let's just say that people can't feed Diyan. May God feed them. You know, it's the soil that feeds the hungry and the hungry. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0339par0084	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0340par0085	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0339par0086	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the Küran course declaration to be added after the declaration of the 12th article of the current Law Proposal 463 rows. Mustafa Erdem (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0341par0097	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0339par0098	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0342par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0339par0100	Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0343par0102	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have taken a pledge on the 12th Amendment on behalf of the National Movement Party, and I hereby salute you all. First of all, when it comes to alcohol, I'd like to share with you a television report. In 2005, there were 2,600 or 2,500 arrested for substance abuse in Turkey. Again, in the same news programme, the number of people arrested for substance abuse or drugs at the end of 2012 is 76,000. In our country, I'm announcing that it's a fundamental rule for those in a position of responsibility to question themselves at a time when adultery concerns, divorces are on the rise, and drug use is on the rise, probably for the sake of God. And why should you not do what you say, O believers, when the Qur'an is addressed to the believers? One of the greatest sins in the sight of God is that he does not do what he says. Now, for the interest of our Ministry of Religious Affairs. First of all, I want to say that religion and religion are very sensitive areas in our country. In particular, it harms our religion and our religion and our national unity and our unity to express an opinion on this matter by all those who do not know or care about it. Of course, those who are not in the position of official responsibility outside the religious zone have a fundamental duty and responsibility to protect this prestigious institution, while those who serve as members of the chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs have to maintain the institution and represent the area they represent in a perfect way. In particular, in our culture, it is said that there is a great deal of importance for institutions to be introduced or not harmed by those who represent them. Dear lawmakers, when our President of the Religious Affairs, a time-lapse, and place-to-day religion sheds light on those who go to the eternal world, it would be the greatest injustice to this nation to be compelled in this field, and to take the religious authority under the political authority, and then to do the greatest damage to our supreme religion. Mr. Health Minister is here right now. I would especially like to request that they confirm a public matter from here. It is said that she asked for a ruling from our Ministry of Religious Affairs on mother milk banking or foster brotherhood, but then it was answered negatively, followed by a second request, and that the Council of Religious Affairs is offering an opinion, a debate, not a fetish with two missing members. I'd like to bring to your attention, how is it that a distinguished institution, such as the Dianet, should be responsible to God first, can, as a prisoner of a politician's will, turn a sensitive field of religion into a polemic subject? Dear lawmakers, the rules of our great religion are not to be interpreted by what is clearly judged by the ruling. However, if the religious institution still can't respect those qualities, I entrust those responsible to God, and salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0344par0110	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on Article 13 of the same nature that I'm going to read, I'm going to process together, I'm going to make a separate commitment or I'm going to have the motions read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the release of Article 13 of the current Law Proposal 463 from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim Ilk Mustafa Erdem The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Kazim Kurt Rahmi Küreli of Love Bulent Kuşoğlu İzzet Cetin İhsan Özkes The signatures of the other motion are: Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Atash Nusret Bayraktar Osman your love Look Mehmet has arrived Ahmet Haldun Erturk Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen Harun Karaca Ali Ashlıyyya Sadi Bilgiç İsmail Kashdemir Muhammad Bilal Macit Nurdan Şanlı Yilmaz junç Fatih Şahin İdris Şahin Ahmet Tofik Long Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Hilmi Bilgin İsmail Sun Adnan Yilmaz İhsan Şener Nureddin Necati Osman Boyraz Mehmet Öğurk Muzaffer Aslan Adem Yeşildal Mehmet Erdogan Yahya Akman Hüseyin Burge Sevim Fighter Bedrettin Yıldırım Osman Jaffeci Muyettin Aksak Ahmet Baha Öğüken Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0345par0158	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0344par0159	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0346par0160	We agree.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0344par0161	İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0347par0163	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the withdrawal of Article 13 of Law Proposal 463. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the Court reports that the government has kidnapped from this great Parliament have made it legal with this bag of law proposals that the mosques and mosques on the treasury have been transferred to Dianet without any legal legislation and that 25 per cent of the revenues that should be transferred to the treasury have been transferred to a religious foundation. According to the proposal of the law, the Religion will lease such business enterprises to the associations and foundations it wants. The Court's Finance Budget Account for June 2012 has been transferred to the President of the Dianet Affairs within the specific borders of the Court for the establishment of the mosque, the foundation of the mosque, the foundation and the establishment of its properties, and the use of commercial activities, as it is explained in the 2011 draft audit report. It is not legal to be carried out in accordance with the protocol signed between the Ministry of Finance and the President of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0348par0165	Mr. Bekir, is he telling the truth? Bekir President, you're not listening.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0347par0166	Dear lawmakers, the Court's report came to a three-question motion on broad media coverage, which revealed that the Chair of Religious Affairs received $23,795k in income. As much as $24 million was discovered, a foundation was handed over by the President of the Religious Affairs without legal regulation. With the legalisation of this clause, in the case of the law of this clause, all the money that the Court has called it, is being handed over to Dianet and spent as you wish. Dear lawmakers, when we pay attention to the declaration in the last sentence of the article, the religion can transfer this money to associations and foundations. The Court shall have the right of the people. The money referred to in the control of the Dianet will be transferred to the associations and foundations, and it shall be determined by the Presidency of the Dianet Works, which shall be transferred to whom. At the end of the article, the same provisions are carried out on the income from the places mentioned in the (1)th joke and kept in the bank accounts. So, the interest interest in the Dianet's bank accounts is also guaranteed? Dear lawmakers are covered by this clause over corruption, irregularity, which has been produced by the Court's report, and its legitimacy is done by another expression. Members of parliament, there was no trade at the mosques during the Holy Prophet Muhammad, and the conversion of the places of worship is prohibited. In no time in the history of Islam, the Emevites, Abbasis, Seljucians, mosques were never, ever a trading site in the Ottoman era. In our country, in the history of the republic, places of worship have never been used for profit. Sadly, in particular in recent years mosques and mosques have been transformed into runtas. In one verse, the holy God surely belongs to God. When he commands, he converts the houses of God into a business. Those who try to cover everything with the veil of sanctity will experience true remorse in the Hereafter. Someone has to remind the Dianet that faith is valid, not money in the Hereafter. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With that respect, I demand that this clause be removed from the bill. Thank you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0349par0174	It's the same thing as...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0350par0175	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0349par0176	Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP who wants a word on the proposal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Special, if you'll be patient, I'll call you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0351par0179	Mr. President, I'm here to present my views on the 13th Amendment. I salute your high council with love and respect. The Turkish nation is Muslim, 99 per cent from yesterday to today is Muslim, and will continue. Those who believe in God and the Last Day do so in order to maintain the culture of almskeepers, and will continue to do so. In our history, mosques are not made from the state budget, they're made to live off the feelings of the Hasenat and to go on to eternity with it. Honourable members of the Turkish nation have been able to build these temples in this dome in the name of a pleasant seda, which is described as the home of God in the least amount of difficult circumstances. Therefore, at least to congratulate those who make these temples, to appreciate them, and to remember those who have received mercy and gratitude and gratitude. Second: It is the primary duty of every Muslim Turk to preserve these valuable works that they have done as a charity and to maintain their life in accordance with their wishes. There are, of course, areas under our mosques today that provide some economic input. The fact that the foundations established yesterday regarding the survival of mosques cannot be found in the actual area today is an important task of providing them with certain commercial entries and maintenance. I think it would be disrespectful to manipulate such a sacred site out of its original owners, with a different purpose, for different names and purposes. I think it's disrespectful to take the inputs of these sacred artifacts from there and direct them to other areas. The religious institution is a white dress. The Republic of Turkey, members of the Grand National Assembly, has no personal lives, and if they are dedicated to this nation, the religious officials and our religious officials are far too innocent and too responsible to make mistakes. Hence, practices related to these areas are especially necessary to avoid practices that will mispronounce religion, Diyaneti, and the religious minister. It is a sad practice against this field, when it is used beyond the purpose of the work given as a foundation, and the wages assigned there are evaluated in some way for personal gain. I want you to appreciate how religious and moral it is to take advantage of the foundation property collected from these mosque entries, during the week of the religious talks of those responsible for teaching religious people and enlightening the community about religion. The allocation of funds to a specific area, to a specific purpose, after a certain period of time in the banks, is a violation of the rights of those who have left the foundation, the foundation, again. As an example, I offer: The fact that the funds collected to help Arakan will be kept in banks for a certain period of time, and then used directly to achieve the goal is at least a flaw. Van thinks that if you don't pay for the earthquake or the good feelings for other areas on time, you can't make the services done in that field fit your spirit, and I salute your grand delegation with love and respect. God be with you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0352par0188	Thank you. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: Matter is intended to be removed from the text. I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. The matter has been removed from the text in accordance with the motions adopted. There are two motions on Article 14: T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 14th draft law of the current 463 rows. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Ali Riza Özturk Kazım Kurt Özgür Special Bkent Kuşoğlu During the budget talks in 2013, Protection and Security personnel were named among those who received overtime from the K table of the budget bill. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 14th amendment of the proposed law shall be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Sumer Oral Erkan Akçay 1 4 - 14/7/1965 has been added to the Law of State Officers No. 657 Cetvelin 1 has been removed from the post of 'Ankara, İstanbul, Izmir', which is included in the section "1 - GENEL AIRMITS SINIFI," which is included in the section "Earth and Urbanism County Director," and has been replaced by the "SINFIFI" section "Khetdar, National Education County Manager, Health District Manager, Food Agriculture and Petting State Manager, Environment and Urbanist State Manager," and the IV-EDUCEDIMEDIMEDIMED AND TERMEDIMEDIMEDS SINFI" and other members of the "SIFIFI department" and other staff have been replaced in the following way, as well as well as well as well as well as "IMEDIFIFIFI. (II) Cetvelin; "4. The head of the Ministry of National Education Group, the head of the Budget Office, the head of the Accounting Manager, the Director of the National Real Estates, the Assistant Accounting Director, the Deputy Real Estate Manager, the Ministry's Governor, 5th District Director, and 5th. In the section "Secretary Secretary and Office Chairman, IRS Director, Tax Administration Director," and "Leader of Groups and Law's Office" were removed from the text. Following the declaration of "Free Regional Manager" to the department of Presidents and Presidents, Head of the Ministry of National Education Group, Head of Budget, Accounting Manager, National Realty Manager, Accounting Director, Booketdar Deputy, Head of Real Estate, Minister of State, Minister of State, Deputy Director of the Ministry, President of the Ministry, President of the Ministry of National Education, Minister of Budget, President of the Ministry of Budget, Director of Accounting, Director of Accounting, Director of Accounting, Director of Accounting, Director of Accounting, Accounting, Deputy of Accounting, Director of Real Estates, Director of Real Estates, Minister of State, Minister of State, Director of State, Minister of State, 2nd Office of Education. "The Regional Manager of Turkey's Statistical Institution, Deputy Secretary of State, Public Prosecutor, Public Prosecutor, and Director of Law, to be brought up after the declaration. The head of the IRS Group, the Director of the Tax Office, the Secretary General of the National Security Board Group, added statements. 'b) Teacher and other staff A) Police Director 17,000 B) Deputy Chief of Police, Chief of the Inspection Board, Police Academy President, Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir Security Directors 16,000 C) Apartment Presidents, I. Legal Counsel and other First Class Chiefs 15,000 D) Those whose ranks are included in this class and who have won the title of Chief of Police or Chief of Police, 14,000 e) Captain, Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Police Officers; Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0353par0250	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0352par0251	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0354par0252	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0352par0253	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0355par0255	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. In accordance with the 14th article of the proposed law, the additional indicators of State Officers Act 657 are scheduled to be changed and the additional indicators of the members of the body's office and the members of the group's staff in the ministries and organisations are expected to be increased to 3,600. I thought you brought the same amount of money as the Law Order 666, which means it's not true. We've repeatedly expressed the need to go to a fee based on the value of the work, including jobs, tasks and responsibilities, and the qualifications and appointments of employees. We said that the provision with KHK 666 would often be changed because there are too many problems. As a matter of fact, the changes have begun. In particular, the majority of public employees, such as executive staff, teachers, academics, religious officials, police and health staff, have been ignored, the branch managers, managers, vice principals, victims. In our motion for the nationalist Movement Party on this clause, the head of the general manager and office, the head of the National Education Ministry group, the head of the budget office, the head of the accounting manager, the manager of the accounting manager, the manager of justice, the assistant manager of the property manager, the deputy chief of the ministry, the deputy general secretary of the ministry, the head of the income management group, the chief of the tax office, the chief of the law advisor and the chief of the National Security Board of Security groups, the additional indicators of the executives of the authorities, and also the chief of the chiefs of the tax departments of other provinces in Ankara, Istanbul, İzmir, the chief of other districts, the chief of health manager of the districts, the chief of the municipality of the municipality of health, and the municipality of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts. Regarding Turkish police problems that have been pending for years, Mr. Prime Minister said on July 15, 2007, that the first issue to be put on a television programme after the election was police rights, but no improvement has been made in the past six years. The police are afraid of retiring because when he retires, his salary will be cut in half. That's why he has to work his way up to his age. Our retired policemen are suffering from severe income. The Turkish police, who provide our peace and security, have a primary desire to boost additional indicators. Our officers, all of whom are well-educated, want the 3600 additional indicators rightfully. The 2200 additional indicators of highly trained law enforcement personnel must be corrected at 3600. I'm afraid our teachers have not been able to benefit from the improvements to officer's salaries with SEC 666. Today, teachers in OECD countries pay less than half the OECD average. Teachers' additional indicators must be raised in order to improve their monthly allowance, especially to pensioners. The 3600 additional indicators should not be seen to our teachers as they rise to the first degree. The assurance of our future is greatly appreciated by our teachers, who have made sacrifices, loyal and selfless efforts to raise our children. However, it is a fact that under limited means and many challenges of life, our teachers have not received the necessary attention to prepare and nurture future generations. We are facing a controversial issue in which a profession that is overwhelmed by the pressure of financial problems, its reputation and reputation are getting weaker every day, and Turkey's strengthening will contribute to the progress of our nation. It is never acceptable for our teachers, who are anxious to serve in the most remote corners to teach our children a letter, who are willing to sacrifice themselves to contribute to the bright future of our nation, to be helpless in the face of economic problems. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0356par0265	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 14th draft law of the current 463 rows. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends During the budget talks in 2013, Protection and Security personnel were named among those who received overtime from the K table of the budget bill. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0357par0273	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0356par0274	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0358par0275	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0356par0276	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0359par0278	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Since the day the Justice and Development Party came to power, it has been pressing social screws on the sale of alcoholic beverages every two or three years on the subject of sale, therefore on the use of them. In 2005, he attempted to set up free zones, but because of social reactions, he stepped back. Again, in 2008, he issued a regulation limiting the sale and presentation of alcoholic beverages. The changes made in 2011 brought new bans on the sale of liquor, presentation and use of alcohol. All of this, in fact, is based on reasons for protecting youth and society from alcohol abuse. But the fundamental question here is, what is the purpose? Is it really about protecting society and youth against alcohol addiction, or is it about political power, which uses the dynamic of change in society for its own purposes, trying to create an Islamist, conservative society? To create a non-drinking, a social conservative society where women are locked up, have at least three children, have the control of the biat culture, reject different identities, and everyone gets into solidarity around religious values? In fact, drinking is viewed as a symbol of a different way of life, so political power is constantly playing with this drink to send political messages to its supporters. In fact, when we look at World Health Organization data, statistics show that youth and society's protection against alcohol addiction are not very convincing. The following is: These figures make it concrete in Turkey that alcohol consumption is not a social quality. Of the 48 European countries, Turkey is a country that consumes the least after Tajikistan. Again, annual consumption of alcohol per capita in Turkey is less than 2 litres per person. Greece is 10 liters [10 liters] in Bosnia, Spain and Switzerland are 10 litres, France is 14 litres in France. Again, according to the World Health Organization's data, Turkey is the 1st among 48 European countries in terms of the proportion of non-drinkers to the general population in the past 12 months, indicating that the drinking rate in Turkey is the least in Europe. At this rate, Turkey is 27 times ahead of Denmark. According to the annual consumption of alcohol from the 15-24-year-old group, alcohol consumption in Turkey per capita is 3.4 liters. For the same age group in Europe, the European average is 12.2 litres in terms of the 15-24-year-old group. Turkey's 15-24-year-old group monitors a diminishing curve in alcohol consumption. Every two or three years, I really think it's a mental eclipse to bring up alcohol consumption and try to take new measures that are the most important problem in the country. In fact, there's no public interest in banning alcoholic beverages, but it's clear there's a way of life that needs to be protected. Dear lawmakers, look, the implementation of secularism has become extraordinarily difficult and an Islamist party has come to work. I supported him until the end of 2010, but for two years, the Islamist party has been taking revenge. The law of milk, the practice of halal food, the prohibition of drinking is revenge. What awaits us at the end of this revenge? These are very unpleasant things. In the end, people will come out and say enough. These are the words of your wise man, Railing Oran, from an interview in a newspaper. Indeed, society will now call your avenging policies one day. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0360par0289	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0361par0291	I demand a search for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0360par0292	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted in the matter. There are two motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the current 463 Rows Numbered Bill. In the article, we would like to keep the expression "appreciated by the city councils" in the same way as the release of Article 96. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Ali Sarıbaş Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Kazim Kurt Bkent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Changes in Law and Law Orders in 463 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel The Leader of İbrahim's Bizarre Sırrıyya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0362par0311	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0360par0312	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0363par0313	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0360par0314	I'm reading the reason: Decisions related to the city should be removed from city councils, but removing that authority from the municipal councils and leaving it to the decisions of the central government does not coincide with the understanding of modern local governance and Turkey's democratisation process. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the current 463 Rows Numbered Bill. In the article, we would like to keep the expression "appreciated by the city councils" in the same way as the release of Article 96. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0364par0324	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0360par0325	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0365par0326	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0360par0327	Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0366par0329	Mr. President, I've submitted a motion on the 15th amendment of the top-of-the-line bag code 463, and I've made a commitment on that. I hereby salute you all with my deepest love and respect. First of all, I'd like to focus on my proposal for a change in matter. On the one hand, we're living in a ball of contradictions. The AKP government, on the one hand, is trying to hand over its powers in local governments, and on the other hand, is trying to get those powers in other laws. Today, I'm talking about a substance that contradicts itself in the terms of the law and the law and the law that we're going to continue to discuss in the commissions, which, in the meantime, contradicts itself in terms of the law's content. Because the entire country's Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister claim that despite the fact that Turkey says that it has all its problems one-handedly and that the Council of Ministers has so much to do with it, it leaves here, saying that we will now pay the prices of bars and pavilions by taking power from the city councils by making this amendment. So the state of the entire Republic of Turkey is now taking the authority that is in the hands of such local governments to determine the market licenses of bars and pavilions. Now, isn't there a contradiction here? Isn't there a lack of trust in the local authorities here? Why don't you trust our municipalities with this authority, when we look at it within the scope of the plan, especially in the capital city? Now, if we look outside the economic dimension of this material with another dimension, I expect something like this: let's look at a development in the process starting in 2002 from the first elections of the AKP. At the time, the Prime Minister took off his shirt, and he said that no one's life -- especially this law that we discussed tonight -- would not be interfered with, and was tried to persuade people to do so. The second term: at that time, we came to the second period in which the red lines formed along with the pressures of the governorships and subsidiaries, including local governments, slowly and slowly. In fact, it's only in practice, as it is today, that narrows it down. This law, which we now wear in the second grade or single shirt, which we call the only human being, is now available to all humans in a single sense. What did we discuss in the second term? We discussed the red dots. What's the red dot? It was also an intervention in people's lives, in this sense, in their way of life, but this intervention, and then it was done wrong. The mayors were warned, the governors were warned, and the governors were warned, and with this weather -- including the Liberal -- you sought to vote, and you said, "We promise we won't play." Now, to the third term, I know how easy it is to get a license here now, as a mayor. People in this country have been starving for 20 years, when a tradesman, Gökçaada, Bozcaada, Çanakkale, produced wine and invested a lot in a province where the government had privatized it, and especially after the government's privatisation. On the one hand you encourage workers out of the country to invest in this place, agriculture, wine, drink. You call it alcohol, and you limit it. That's understanding? Now, again, I'm going to try to tell you how hard it is to get a license during this period -- and I'm going to say it in my second speech. There's already this ban, and in practice -- as a tradesman -- you know what this ban could be, what kind of ban would be, and someday you'll have to live with the reality of this life, and you'll know how expensive and how many obstacles you've blocked it with. For him, my dear fellow councillors, come and give up the neighborhood pressure and the other way around. Do not point to this drink here. These people are walking here otherwise. This doesn't suit us.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0367par0337	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0368par0338	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0367par0339	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... Since there's a discrepancy between the clerk members, we'll vote with the electronic device.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0369par0341	Mr. President, is there, for God's sake? Is there enough to decide?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0367par0343	Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 16th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 16 of the current 463 Orders Numbered Law proposal. We present the amendment of the clause to the following form. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Free Special The declaration of the Law was removed from the text, not more than 800 YTL. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0370par0356	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0367par0357	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0371par0358	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0367par0359	Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0372par0360	Dear President, I'd like to continue this conversation with the 16th Amendment. Now, wherever you go to Anatolia, wherever you go to Turkey, there used to be 100 meters. When you lay down a zoning plan as a mayor, when you take out this law, or when you apply the old law, you don't have a liquor license at the moment, and you can't find it, and because you can't find it, you have to put it in a specific place. Now, from the point of view of this law, from the point of view of tourism, however we look at it, it's illegal because you can't find a place to give it, it's impossible. Every time you put 100 meters in, especially in the temples, including mosques, it's not possible when schools don't have so many recipes. What about the current law? You found it, we objected to the red lines, it's disputed, it's forbidden. In the hands of the mayors or the governor; in the hands of the governor and the governor, it's even worse.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0373par0364	The experience speaks, the experience.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0372par0365	Because what do you have to do to get it there? First you have to look at the number in the red. It's like they've been pushed there, or they can go there, and they're marked every night. You'll gather them somewhere, like a group of isolated people. When the AKP didn't touch all their freedoms and lives, all of them would live free, we'd live arm in arm, where's that understanding? Why are you standing on this law? I'm telling you now: here you go, when he gets the license, there's trouble there first, you'll write to the police, the mayor of the city who's going to ask, "No." The class is over. He can't. Verdi, there are other laws there to open it. Let's see what licenses he gets. If it's not a business and industry room, he'll take it from the shop, get a permit from the municipality, get his legal, tobacco-related license, and also get a liquor license and go to the tax office. How many is that? Six licenses. These are very difficult to accomplish. They're, look, economic power, bureaucracy, and they're all blocked. A license for alcohol or tourism? Oh, my God, you have to think for two hours. There's also what we call peer pressure. Whether you want to give it to me or not, I'll dig in front of you. I'll see different things in front of you. Don't do it, sell another product in it, do something different about it. This is a method of social oppression. I'm being very clear here, my friends, and you all know that you're not talking about the other way around here, the way people live, the laws that I don't want to talk about before -- the birth of a human, the other interactions of life, and you're not talking about what we did before, but it's very dangerous. Look, my other friends here said, look at your current consumption of alcohol in Turkey, far behind Europe and the world. There is no such thing, and there is a period under the forbidden mentality of Muslim countries, where trafficking breeds and, in particular, the manufacturer is now on top of it -- it's a ban -- especially if you put it into practice. If you're trying to send a message on top of that, that's your problem. I don't know, but you don't have to deal with this problem, but you'll split the country. I'm being very clear. Again, I find it useful to repeat it again, again: Look, if you don't go soft on legal legislation and you skip this, in a month or two months, Turkey will discuss it again, but if you aim to take the incident from Reyhanlı or other process in Turkey off the agenda and put it on the agenda, then you succeed, but we get the wound when we do it, and if you allow the people in the Republic of Turkey to survive, then please, again, don't, I'm telling you again, don't fight, don't fight. So, look at the numbers here, in Muslim countries, in illegal countries, Iran comes first. Why? Because it's forbidden. What is the opposition to the AKP in the face of ban? You say we'll lift the bans, but what's the law tonight? Prohibitor. There's an oxymoron. Either we have an understanding, or I don't speak Turkish, or there's a contradiction in practices, but I'm clear that the AKP continues to place its forbidden mentality. Good evening.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0374par0368	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 17th article, and I'm going to read it: The proposal for law number 463 in question is 17. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Musa Pine Rahmi Türeli of Love Kadir Gökmen Reminder Kazim Kurt Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0375par0381	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0374par0382	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0376par0383	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0374par0384	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0386	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, you were supposed to protect the children. You were supposed to protect everyone from smoking, weren't you? Is it true? Come, let me throw first, and we will ban all foreign cigarettes imported in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0378par0387	Try it if you have the heart.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0388	Let's ban all foreign cigarettes imported to Turkey, and I'll sign first as a smoker.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0379par0389	They're all strangers, no Indians!
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0390	Wait a minute, wait a minute. But it's strange that in order to protect smokers from smoking, the poor Turkish farmer, Adıyaman, Adıyaman, Bitlis, Malatya, tobacco planters, tobacco growers, vendors, tobacco deliveryers... there are shops there, those who know about Adıyaman, those who know about Diyarbakir, those who know about Diyarbakir, those who sit around in coffees, chairs (Hap has sat down) like this.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0380par0393	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0394	But what's so strange is... are my Adıyaman MPs here? (AK PARTY rows here.) Who's there?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0381par0395	They're negotiating, they're negotiating. The Adıyamans are negotiating.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0396	My friends, my Malatya MPs are here.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0382par0397	Mr. Agha, please don't pick on me.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0398	There's a tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency. Everything's free, imported cigarettes free, Philip Morris free, he's free; no Adıyaman tobacco, no Malatya tobacco. Five thousand lira fines for those who take them, five thousand lira fines for those who sell them, and 50,000 lira fines for the truck that takes them from Adıyaman to Diyarbakır. Guys, come on, let's get the manufacturer and the seller on the tax register, the IRS is here, on the tax record. You put in all kinds of WTVs, sheep, but the poor guy... there's a cop out there, there's a governor out there. He says you're a fine of $25,000. He says you're a fine of $50,000. Guys, this is our own product. If we're going to ban tobacco, let me sign first, and I'll sign first. There's no such thing as a banned mindset. Come to someone else, for my 300 square meters... the income he made in the year, 3,000 liras, 2,000 liras. Is that correct, Mr. Malatya Congressman?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0383par0401	Right.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0402	Do I have a Bitlis MP?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0383par0403	These Adıyaman MPs are shopping, Mr. Congressman, Adıyamans are shopping.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0404	Is that right, Congressman Malatya?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0384par0405	Right.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0406	Do I have a mush MP? Is that right, Congressman? The income he gets is 3,000 liras a year. Friends, here's the TAPDK, here's the Finance, come, let's register with the Treasury, and let's give the seller and the manufacturer and the tax, and let's give him the OTV.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0385par0408	Show me that hug again.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0409	Those who surround him in Diyarbakir, those who surround him in Mushal, those who surround him in coffee in Hakkari, that is his taste in lips.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0385par0410	No, how were they wrapped?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0411	I'll just sit down and wrap it up again. [[Laughter]] Dear friends, this is a problem of Turkey, the problem of this east, the problem of this southeast, the problem of this tradesman in the southeast, the problem of the grower in the southeast.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0386par0414	Malatya's problem.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0377par0415	3,000 liras a year, friends, 3,000 liras a year. Let these men take the $3,000, don't, don't, don't, I beg you on their behalf, on the name of the manufacturer and on behalf of the sellers. Dear friends, put it in any tax or whatever you want to put on the tax register, but this problem is the truth of Turkey, this problem is the truth of the country, this problem is the truth of the east, this problem is the truth of the smokers; don't, don't, don't, don't. Bring this... you guys are removing the bans with one item. Remove the ban, in the east... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On behalf of the people, on behalf of that manufacturer, I want to thank you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0387par0421	Thank you. I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 18 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 18 of the current 463 Rows Numbered Bill. In universities established with international agreements, we propose that the length of this period of time be extended from the text of matter to be replaced in the form of five years to the professors who are invited from higher education institutions in the Turkish Republics and relatives. Bhent Kuşoglu Rahmi Küreli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0388par0434	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0387par0435	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0389par0436	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0387par0437	Fatma Nur Serter is an Istanbul MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0390par0439	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Section 463 contains an addition to Article 39 of the Higher Education Act 2547 in the 18th article of the Law on Bag 463 rows. In fact, if these attachments were made correctly, I mean, if they had been done in a way that didn't break the integrity of the substance, maybe we wouldn't have to make a motion and talk here. However, the fact that the National Education Commission's opinion has not been received brings with it a technical error that will lead to serious problems in the future. See, I'm briefly reading the final paragraph of the 39th Article of the existing 2547 Law, where it says: "This is the current regulation of the Ministry of Education and the university board of the National Board of Education on a monthly leave, not to exceed three months, and all rights to be protected by the invitations from higher education institutions in Turkish republics and relatives communities.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0391par0442	Three years, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0390par0443	Sorry, three years. See, these are expressions of Turkish republics and relatives. Underlying this, the 2547 Law uses the declaration of universities established by international agreements that have never been included in it, and it is said that this period can be extended for five years in universities established by international agreements. Now, from that we understand...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0392par0446	In five years...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0390par0447	It can be extended in five years. There are two types of college. Turkish republics and relatives' universities are only allowed for three years, it seems. Also, please read them together and read them, because it says that in universities established by international agreements, this period can be extended for up to five years. There is a technical, material error here that can be understood as two different university definitions and two different mandates, and that can lead to some problems in the future. So, verbally, I'm just sharing with you what I think is necessary for this clause to recover as a Turkish expression. A second issue is universities founded on international agreements. Now, valued lawmakers, the universities of the international agreements include Galatasaray University, Turkish-German University, because the current law currently includes the universities of Turkish republics and relatives, as well as professor Ahmet Yesevi, Kazakhstan and Kırgyzistan-Turkey Manas University. So you're bringing in a third category here, and you're not filling in this category. See, it's not clear what this category is either. Are we going to do an assignment to Galatasaray University or is the Turkish-German University covered by this? Or if you look at the websites of some foundation colleges today, you'll see very clearly that they mention the names of the universities they've signed under the title of international agreements. Do foundation colleges cover that? In addition to all of this, there has been a provision of a substance that does not open all of this and will cause problems in the future, and in addition to all of this, if this is really the coverage of the purpose foundation universities, then the continued evacuation of the state universities may be taken into account as the damage to the Turkish higher education system is being made, and the content of this substance must be made clear because higher education is not in any part of the existing law 2547, which may not be in any part of the new NGO draft. So -- you see, I've given a very good speech -- and I find it very necessary to redefine an arrangement on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0393par0452	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0394par0453	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement regarding what the speaker is talking about?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0393par0454	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0394par0455	Thank you, Mr. President. First, it's a very sensitive matter, very well caught, and I thank our Congressman, who was chosen only on purpose, was used on purpose. For example: this expression covers two universities once, one at Manas University, one at Ahmet Yesevi University, both based on international contracts. If we had used the expression on Turkish republics, the universities in Cyprus, which should not be covered, would also have to be covered. At that time, it would seriously inconvenience the system, because if they go on a temporary mission, professors are staying here at these universities, all their rights, all their staff, and they're occupying those staffs. So there wasn't much chance of increasing the number. The request was originally from Manas University and Ahmet Yesevi University. So, the statement is true, so there's no technical error in the sense that you're saying it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit08spe0395par0458	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0395par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 463. The commission and the government are in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes 19 to 36. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0396par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the second part of the proposed law. On this occasion, I salute you all. I'd like to share with you a little bit of the brandy, and I'd like to start with this: Torku Konyaspor won the PTT First League Play-off semifinals tonight. I congratulate Konyaspor's football players, technical staff, management and devoted supporters. Torku Konyaspor, hopefully, will win the final match Sunday night, and will rise to the Super League, and I truly believe that. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0397par0010	I don't agree with that conclusion, manisaly.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0396par0011	One suit is enough for Manisa, two...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0398par0013	May friendship prevail.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0396par0014	Yeah. Dear lawmakers, the proposal for this 36-point law, which appears to be urgent, stipulates a change in 18 laws and laws. The most widely discussed or debated substances in recent talks are bans and penalties for the production, consumption, marketing, sale, advertising and promotion of alcoholic beverages. We, the National Movement Party, are strongly opposed to the incentive of alcoholic beverages in any way. We are against our faith, against the health of society. The increase in alcohol consumption in our country during the AKP's ruling period is attracting attention. According to a question proposal from the Finance Minister, in 2012 the amount of alcohol available from production and imports increased by 26 per cent in eight years compared to 2004, over 1 billion 127 million litres. At the same time, the amount of beer increased by 15 per cent, the amount of wine increased by 110 per cent, the amount of wine, raki, vodka, whiskey, liquor, gin and other dystile drinks by 32 per cent. These are official figures, and it's clear that the numbers are much higher, given that trafficking and unregisteredness in this area. The AKP mentality appears to be seeking to obtain propaganda material with bans on alcoholic beverages and punishments. Clearly, he intends to exploit our nation's religious sensibilities to the full, as he does at every opportunity. In fact, it is understood that the AKP's mentality has had a problem with preventing society and youth from becoming addicted to alcohol, as well as its lack of concern so far. Now, it's important to ask those who say, "Where have you been for ten and a half years, since you've been under such anxiety, bans on alcoholic beverages and punishments?" During the ten-and-a-half-year period of the supposedly religious youth of those who claim to be conservative, alcohol consumption in our country has increased, alcohol consumption has dropped to 11, alcohol consumption among our children and young people has reached an alarming point. Bad habits, such as alcohol, drugs, marijuana, and satanism, unfortunately, run wild in schools. Although the Constitution has also been appointed as a mandate, official data and research shows that the AKP's government can't protect society and young people from alcoholism, drugs, bad habits. In this regard, it is also a fact that our children and our young ones will not be given the necessary training without the awareness of our human beings and the consequences of punishments. The AKP has turned its 5th minister's education into a sabbatical with a lack of national and spiritual content, unscientific understanding and trial error. Every change caused generations to be wasted in the human educational system. In the AKP period, education policies that have absorbed our national and spiritual values, that have developed the ability to think, perceive and solve problems, open to new developments, open to new developments, sense of responsibility and social sensibility, capable of producing high, science and technology, were not implemented to ensure the development of entrepreneurs, democrats, cultured and religious generations. A reform has not been reformed in this respect. The teaching of the life of the Qur'an and the prophet was also a result of the leadership of the National Movement Party. Dear lawmakers, in AKP's ten-and-a-half-year rule, our national and spiritual values have been severely damaged, and corruption and the erosion of values have reached alarming levels. Therefore, I can't agree with the criticism that the AKP mentality imposed its lifestyle on this arrangement, which, on religious grounds, prohibits alcohol. Think about it. Does a mind that releases adultery and swine prohibit alcohol on religious grounds? Clearly, there has been another abuse. But let the AKP's mentality not be in vain, they will no longer be able to get moisture from the policy of abuse. ▪ We have forbidden alcoholic beverages and brought severe punishments, and their propaganda will not provide them with political benefit. How can anyone believe you? Isn't that the AKP government that releases the production and sale of pork and supports pig farms? Aren't you the one who sold pork to the Muslim? It's just the plague that's enough for you. The Muslim Turkish nation will never give you the benefit of the doubt. With regulations and notifications issued by the AKP government, the markets have been allowed to sell pigs, produce and cut into markets, include pork in Turkish Food Codexi, other meats in which butchery is taken among animals, and to buy a public bank and investment loan to farms that are fed by pigs. If you ask the Minister of Agriculture, there are three registered pig farms in our country. But studies show that around 80 illegal farms in Turkey produce around 1 million pigs a year and are cut off illegally in normal slaughterhouses. I'm asking the AKP government: Can you assure the public that meat and meat products are not mixed with pork, that the machines and knives used in pork are not used in lawful meat? An effective audit, a proper food control is not being conducted so that you can answer, recent developments show that pork products have become common and are infecting everything we eat. There's pork, there's democracy, there's non-Muslims, there's tourists. You can argue that, but the Muslim Turkish nation wants to know what it eats. He doesn't want to eat pork and anything that's been touched by a pig. I'm asking the AKP government: Where are the 1 million pigs that are said to have been slaughtered every year? First of all, account for this. What bans and punishments do you apply regarding unlicensed pig farms? Tell me about it first. The AKP does not impose its lifestyle by banning alcohol. If it were, they would not consider it a crime to set free adultery and to marry an imam. According to the Turkish Penal Code adopted by the AKP in 2004, adultery was not a crime, but a two-month prison sentence for imam weddings without an official marriage was prescribed for those who committed it, and a two-month prison sentence for imams who committed it was sentenced to six months in prison. The current actions of AKP power are not limited to these. It is the AKP's mentality that promises to open the Holy Father's School, which accepts the Patriarch's title as "ecumenic" and thus opens the door for the establishment of a Vatican-like structure in Istanbul. It is the AKP's mentality that changes the term "cami" in the zoning law to "cami" and legitimize apartment churches that end like mushrooms in Turkey, allowing many foreign associations to open and operate branches in Turkey. It is the AKP mentality that destroys the Koran course and opens churches. I ask you: "The Christian world will not rest until all Turks are destroyed." Under the statue of the pope, who signed the Constitution of the EU on October 29, 2004, in his spiritual presence? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0399par0032	Thank you. Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0400par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, as a result of 12 and a half hours of uninterrupted work, we'll probably have passed the 463-degree Law Proposal by morning. Today is a demonstration of how parliamentary democracy has become a pluralist dictatorship. You have a lot of fingers. According to your finger count, you bring the laws that we can't discuss properly on commissions to the General Assembly without even taking the waiting time, and you say we'll discuss it and finish it by morning. But we can't have these arguments in a proper setting because the motions are only given to the group's deputy presidents, and the other MPs are not given such conveniences, examinations and evaluations. Now, I don't understand why this bag of legislation, which is actually a government bill and should come as a government bill, came as an offer. It's possible that either the government can't agree on this, it can't compromise, some ministers object to some of the items in this bag, so there's an offer coming in, or the government is bringing in these bans. Look, I'm not bringing in the MPs. Neither is true nor is appropriate. A shameful bill is being turned into an offer, and you're supposed to be trying to block reactions from society, but unfortunately, there's no way we can stop it and our situation is out of the question. The AKP came to power because I would block the 3Y: I would end corruption, remove poverty, and end the bans. But today we have seen that we are putting a very serious ban regime on Turkey's agenda. We change the way people live, we change the way people think, and I am the majority, and that's how I want you to live, without respecting people's individual rights and freedoms. We have no right to prevent anyone from drinking or drinking, but we have no obligation to allow anyone to sink into the depths of alcoholism. The Constitution has imposed on the state a duty to be a protector. Being a protector doesn't mean banning this job for good, it shouldn't come. In this regard, I am the majority, I do what I want, I do what I want. It is imperative that I stop saying it. With that logic, we must evaluate this law. Now, it's a logic that when we defend localization, when we defend democracy, we're going to put local democracy first. The Council of Ministers will now determine the prices of bars and pavilions in the counties. Such an approach, such an assessment, would never happen. The Council of Ministers will determine the tuition for the bakery that will work Sunday. That doesn't mean it's ever practical and correctable. What do we continue with these bans? Look, we're bringing back all the laws that the Constitutional Court has overturned because they're wrong. However, it is not a right and legal job to make a new law by going against the Constitutional Court's decisions. We bring in affidavits of financial counseling, violations of the Law on Land Reform and most importantly, non-official hand-me-downs and property violations of property rights, property rights, and why do we do that? I'm the majority, I'm what I say it is. With that kind of logic, with that kind of understanding, people's right to the most natural, the most protected property is the basic right. We will be facing serious violations that will damage the country in the future, in violation of European human rights contracts. We eliminate the path of appeal to court rulings in criminal cases, and how do we apply this objection in a place where the law is superior in the state, where the law is superior, how do we account for what we're burdened with international contracts, and in time, we'll show that. My dear friends, DUIs, DUIs, DUIs are in this bag again, and we're putting in some sanctions, some fines. But there's one thing that's very different about a technical device and people who don't accept alcohol detection. In advance, yes, you're as well drunk as you are. A punishment is wrong with logic. The state is capable of taking its citizens to this examination, on a scale, and it is necessary to show that maturity. In this regard, it is also useful to work to make a valuable contribution. This is what I say is overrated and overextended. It is a matter of reason. In the short term, it may provide an advantage in the transfer of rail systems by the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport to very close AKP (AKP) municipalities, but with other municipalities, it is unfair, wrong; it is useful to promote, to promote, to promote, to make sure that there will be no equality in this matter. The reduction of taxes on mobile phones should be done to make these mobile phones more available, but protecting and increasing it is not in line with justice. I don't think it's right to keep this going. The European Court of Human Rights shall not be placed here for a while, while an obligation on documents and information is being imposed on the decisions or practices of the European Court of Human Rights. In a matter of days, however many months, these documents will be issued, these documents must be filed, and perhaps this law will again, I have done what I say it will be. An application under the framework of the Yewiy Foundation will be established. But according to the Green Moon Charter, this community has organs, it has a General Assembly. According to the 12th article of the Charter, the General Assembly must decide the foundation of the association, but you say: "We are the majority, we set up this foundation for you. There is no such thing as logic. It's a fact that you're seriously a statusist, that you're conservative, and that since the system is on your side now, you don't accept any innovation, any democratization. We can't solve this by replacing any of the committees of any organization, any body. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0401par0050	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0402par0053	Mr. President, I've told you that it's not believable that the regulations regarding the offer and use of alcoholic beverages were made to protect young people and society against alcohol abuse. I will not see this matter here with police raids against restaurants while eating with the children's families, violations of the material and spiritual values of the RTÜK (RTÜK) society and punishments given to television channels for not respecting the privacy of the Padishah (Padishah), Mr. Prime Minister's voice, as he shouts, "I will not see this statue." The attempt to impose milk law on the governors, municipalities, Turkish Airlines, and Turkish Institute of Standards (Turkish Standards) with their legal food documents and legal service documents and freedoms are set to other religions, according to other laws, and to other laws. In fact, we need to think about this in terms of democracy. There is no objection, no objection, in conservative and authoritarian societies, where the culture of Biat is dominant. So it is not possible for democracy to flourish and flourish in societies where women are locked up and the culture of beer is dominated. That's exactly what power wants to do. These arrangements are grave arrangements, my dear friends. We all know that prior to that, the political government recorded information about the foster mother to the children's population and made attempts to determine people's marital relations accordingly. The governorships, municipalities and Turkish Airlines banned drinking. In the heart of Ankara, Umitköy, the children who ate with their mother and father were taken first, then delivered to their families. These practices were abandoned on pressures from society. Especially from the Turkish Institute of Standards, the halal food certificate, the legal service document, is a disgrace. You're going to enter a restaurant, the halal section will be separate, the tables won't see each other, the waiter who serves the halal section will be separate, the fork and the knife will be separate. Could such an application, such a picture, have a place in the democratic law state, the secular republic? At the very least, the valued MPs are the state-owned ghettoization of society. The AKP is ghettoizing both Islamists and non-Muslims, and doing all of their actions in the name of democracy. On the one hand, democracy is singing songs, but on the other hand, democracy and law are undermining. We are now approaching the 3pm of the night. Our predecessor, Mr. Kemal Anadol, used to say, "Let his ears ring": "When you go to the streets of Ankara at this hour, only the pavilions are open, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly is open."
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0403par0058	What kind of comparison is that?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0402par0059	My dear friends, we have no right to expect respect for lawmakers from other parts of our community if we really treat lawmakers with such low self-esteem. I'm asking you from here, Mr. Minister, to the members of the AKP group, to the President of the Commission: What is the reason why this law was brought to parliament in such a hurry, on the basis of the rule of law, on the basis of the majority dictatorship? I mean, why isn't this brought in on normal days? What's the rush? I don't understand what this is all about, my dear friends. I want this explained. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0404par0062	From the dictatorship of the majority
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0405par0064	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0406par0067	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will play the final match in Manisaspor and Konyaspor, Eskişehir, on Sunday. Yes, and I hope we'll be guests to friends from Eskişehir. As two rivals, we hope to return with a good result. Mr. Free, I hope you'll join us. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a personal commitment to the second chapter. 18 points, of course. I'd like to complete my speech on the 22nd and 23rd article. Our fellow lawmakers who served in the last 23rd term will remember very well. In June, in mid-June 2010, there was a unimatter law, and it was number 5999. This was an arrangement that regulates his orgasm due to unconstitutional seizure and now makes a change in Article 22. The amendment proposed by Article 22 of Publicisation Law No. 2942, which was proposed by Article 2942, has been issued but has not been completed or has not been made public service, but has been assigned to public service or to a need for public benefit, an arrangement on the moving of the premises, and this is the 6th article of Law 2942, which allows the owner to demand the value of non-official hand-offs from 1956 to 1983. Article 6111, which stipulates that the right be extended after 1983, was annulled by the Constitutional Court in November 2012 by Constitutional Court with Article 169, and is a violation of the court's decision, however the basis of this proposal was stated, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's rulings. However, we are also aware that the Justice and Development Party will also have a change in the 22nd Amendment. This is again being corrected in the form of 4/11/83, as predicted by the Constitutional Court until 2012. This correction is partly a correction, and the Constitutional Court's decision is not fully met. Because our citizens' victims, rights-seeking means are blocked again by continuing to be paid in installments. There should also be a correction here, and if this clause is put into effect in this manner, the administration will not be able to make proper publicisation. So unoffensive hand-offs need to be avoided, but this arrangement does not prevent unoffensive hand-holding, but it also stands as an incentive for unoffensive hand-holding. We say that the legal regulations and the illegal actions and procedures of governments in front of the judiciary cannot be preferred above the legal actions and procedures of the law. With these thoughts, I end my words here, and I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0407par0073	Thank you. The department will now be asked and answered for 15 minutes. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0408par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just tried to tell you, how can it be assessed in terms of health for those who do not accept alcohol and alcohol detection in advance, in terms of measuring the effects of alcohol, narcotics, or psychotropic substances that are being brought in with the 20th article? Because two jokes later, one way or another, it's possible to determine how drunk they are by taking blood, saliva, and so forth; hair, nail samples. Why is there a decree here to be annulled by the Constitutional Court? I can't...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0407par0079	Thank you. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0409par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. For one thing, the forest fire in the Kaz Mountains continues quickly in the villages of Ozancık, Yenice district and Çan district of Çanakkale province. I wish, in that sense, that it would be extinguished and that my countrymen, my villagers, would not be lost in life and property. On this occasion, I wish no loss of life, and due to the loss of goods, that all authorities from here should take immediate precautions, but first, I wish to convey my best wishes that it be extinguished. I ask the Minister right away: Gene here, especially when he thinks a lot about people's health with alcohol in the future, in fact somewhere in the West like Çanakkale, Newce, Gallipoli, Chandal, Çanakkale, where they still haven't had a doctor's staff in ten years, but the night bans and alcohol...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0410par0085	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0411par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, to refresh our memory, TeKEL's liquor factory had been privatized at the expense of nothing, and even the drinks in the stocks had been more than paid for the tender. Then he changed hands a few times with this level. Today, the foreign owners of this company and their CEO have asked the Prime Minister for an appointment, they have been given this appointment, and if the Prime Minister passes this law before the appointment is made, he has passed through the parliament over certain demands they will make to themselves. It was already an offer, not our design. There's talk of a defense he's going to. Can you clarify that for me?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0410par0089	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0412par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The Law, dated June 18, 2010 and 5999, regulates its appeal for non-offensive possession, and from 18 June 2010, what is the number of claims on non-movable goods? How much compensation has been paid so far? What's the number of lawsuits against this clause? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0413par0094	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0414par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, 33 of the 34 articles in this bill are a bag of laws that change other laws, but unfortunately, Article 34 is about the establishment of a foundation. Wouldn't it be more appropriate for him to take part in the Law of the Foundations or in the Law of Associations rather than here? How right and ethical do you think it is to establish a new foundation in this bag of legislation? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0415par0099	Thank you. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0416par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, you've been to Erzincan, but to get on a plane, I wish you'd visited a hospital. What's the last thing you've decided at the state hospital right now? And will you do a study on the research hospital? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0417par0104	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0418par0106	Mr. Secretary, the 22nd article you have brought in this law is a violation of the Constitution. Right now, with this clause that we're about to discuss, you're seriously violating the right of ownership of our Constitution on Article 138. Are you aware that you have committed a constitutional offense in bringing back a law that has been revoked by the Constitutional Court? Do you think you could do something about it while there's time?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0417par0107	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0419par0109	Mr. Secretary, you're saying that this law, banning alcohol, is about the health of young people. There is another situation now, especially the highly common pepper gas in AKP power, which threatens the health of young people, and the pepper gasses in action affect the health of young people. I'd like to ask if you intend to ban it. And you came to Malatya in the last few weeks and opened our Arabgir State Hospital. I thank you for that. At the request of Mr. Aslanoglu, you would send an attending and a practitioner to our hospital. I'd like to know if you've had any initiatives in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0420par0112	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0421par0114	Minister, a 7-year-old child recently lost both legs to a harvester in Zonguldak. The county hospital he went to sent him to Zonguldak State Hospital. They met with Hacettepe, and six hours were critical, and immediately the plane or helicopter was ordered to raise the patient by ambulance. However, this aircraft and helicopter were lost hours in a constant coordinatement with the ambulance, and five hours later, they were sent by land again. When the patient arrived, it was too late. Both legs were planted; one is said to be lost today and the other to be less than 1%. Have you launched an investigation into this? Why did this dream come true? Why did the ambulances lie for this child?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0420par0115	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0422par0116	Thank you, Mr. President, dear friends. Now, Mr. Kurt, there's a provision of the 20th article, which is that it takes a certain amount of proportions for those who refuse to allow psychotropic substances to be measured by the technical device. However, it can be identified by blood work or saliva. Is it possible for us to draw blood or do a blood test without blowing the device? So, again, how do we get the saliva from the guy who doesn't blow the device, so if there's a goodwill here, there shouldn't be a problem, but if there's an ulterior motive and there's a resistance, then we need to find a solution. So, in this sense, it's an evaluation of such deterrentism. Otherwise, how can we force blood from the same person?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0423par0118	But you put it in two jokes later, so we'll get it by force, by police, you say.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0422par0119	How do we get the police and the blood? I'll have the police measure it...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0423par0120	Here it is, read the rest, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0422par0121	We'll get him checked out by the police, but we can't get his blood.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0423par0122	The driver is taken by the police and medically...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0422par0123	Yes, well, thank you. Mr. Sarıbaş, I also wish that the forest fire in Çanakkale be extinguished as soon as possible and that there is no loss of life and the loss of goods remain minimal. Doctor's staff, probably interrupted. Maybe the thing we're going to have the most problems with in the future is the doctor's staff. Unfortunately, doctor, it's a fact that we're going to have a hard time closing our medical deficit for a while longer. We'll try to use it as efficiently as possible, to use it as planned. Mr. Special, of course, why was the Prime Minister asked for an appointment, an appointment, not given; since I have no information about it -- I hear it from you for the first time -- so I don't have a sentence to say about it right now. What is the number of seizures, what is the number of cases, and what is the amount paid? Mr. Light, could it be in the Law of Quads about building a foundation?.......that's probably the greatest feature of the bag law, in order to meet the needs of many subjects, in this sense we hope that the Green Moon Foundation will have significant contributions to the social struggle with alcohol. We're not here for Erzincan State Hospital, Mr. Imlum, Erzincan, but we're trying to conclude what Erzincan's people want to do with Erzincan State Hospital.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0424par0130	Will the building be built?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0422par0131	Let's hope the building is built.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0424par0132	To the State Hospital.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0422par0133	We're working on it. In a week, ten days...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0424par0134	We don't want it there; we want it there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0422par0135	Yeah, I'll do the same thing... we'll do a study there, we'll clear it up in ten or fifteen days. Mr Levent: You are in violation of the Constitution, you are in violation of property rights. Yes, I mean, you know that we do not have such an opinion. Are you planning to ban pepper gas? Friends, I wish we never needed it in social events, but I hope our Ministry of Internal Affairs will be more sensitive. Thank you, I'm happy to come to Arabgir, I'm happy to come to Malatya, I hope we'll try to go to all the provinces, but my fellow physicians and physicians do work. I hope I don't have to tell you to remove the boredom there, but I'd like to say that we're going to be trying to reduce it. In Zonguldak, when a 7-year-old takes a harvester and loses both legs... That the helicopter could not fly at night or fly at night, that our plane and the ambulance plane had to send another patient to another patient's transport, an hour after the incident in Nevşehir. We've launched an investigation, so hopefully we'll let you know again as a result of the investigation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit09spe0425par0141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, after I've processed the materials and the motions on those substances in the second section, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit10spe0425par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 463. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on the 19th article, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th draft law of the current 463 rows. In the matter of the motorized vehicle, we would also like to include the expression of the motorcycle. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Veli Ağbaba Musa Çam Free Special Kazım Kurt Ali Sarıbaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In addition, the owner of the vehicle will be given the same amount of administrative fine on the registration plate, which allows the vehicle to be driven by drivers without a driver's license." We offer and propose that his statement be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit10spe0426par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit10spe0425par0019	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-23sit10spe0427par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit10spe0425par0021	I'm having it read. It is very difficult to determine whether the vehicles were taken without permission or without permission. Therefore, these statements must be removed from the draft text in order to ensure that both owners of the vehicle are not victimized and that there are no problems in the application.
tbmm-2013-05-23sit10spe0428par0024	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-23sit10spe0425par0025	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
