tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yeah, there's enough for a meeting, so we're on the agenda. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Mehmet Şeker (KOSGEB) who has asked for a statement on the allegations of unlawful conduct in KOSGEB.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, I have made a promise to address corruption, irregularities, illegalities, and corruption that have been committed in the Ministry of Development and Support for Small and Medium Business Development and Support. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear friends, 29% of the 2.5 million businesses in Turkey are KOBIESTs. The COBIs also face 77.8 per cent of employment, 51.5 per cent of salaries and wages, 55 per cent of added value, and about 60 per cent of exports. The government of KOSGEB, which has a service directorship in 68 districts and has a budget of up to 400 million TL, is expected to have a legal, clean, and transparent management, and its rulers are expected to have a sense of conscience and morality. However, today, when it comes to KOSGEB, an institution that has become the focus of organised corruption, irregular credit support and bribery is unfortunately coming to mind. Why? Because, here, unfortunately, the wolf has been delivered a lamb. During his time in the private sector, he is appointed as a service manager to Gaziantep, a convicted director charged with embezzling money. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, I'd like to bring to your attention that this person is sentenced to three years in prison. The person sentenced to three years in prison is appointed director of KOSGEB to Gaziantep, and nothing is done. When we bring up our question proposal on corruption that's going on here, it's taken away from there, given to the Church Service Directorate. With a little more on the job, our same friend now works as an expert in Şanlıurfa. Of course, in Gaziantep, all payments have been halted, so age burns as well as legislation support can't be paid to SMEs. Unfortunately, this person is being brought to the church at the head of another new money tap. Dear friends, of course the court order has to be finalized. The court has a verdict, but it's still being appointed. This person does not actually have any expertise, but he is also unfortunately appointed as an assistant expert in Urbana. Another claim is about the president of KOSGEB. My fellow congressmen, please listen to this very carefully. The press that's been writing about the MPs' salary for days should bring them up very carefully. Money is being sent to the COSGEB president's account from other service managers. There's a claim and there's receipts, there's complaints about them. As a result of the complaints filed against them -- KOSGEB -- the review board launches a review on behalf of the minister, and concludes that: "Here is a written warning not to impose disciplinary action on the subject. " There are some documents sent to one person's COSGEB president's account -- from some services -- and by the head of a county. I'm speaking to the minister here: we're giving him a deadline for the president of COSGEB; let him do his work on it, start the investigation, and let him suspend our friend, if possible, for the sake of the investigation, because there are serious allegations, there are serious accusations.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0003par0020	Is there any evidence?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0002par0021	I also have documents concerning these, which I will present to the Minister. Our goal is to eat grapes, but we're not supposed to allow an organized network to be formed here, because here, at $400 million, we have the right to an unfinished orphan. In this case, of course, I would say that the audit is an unofficial audit. There have been audits in Gaziantep for eight months, no results have been reached, unfortunately not. The D.A. has confiscated 70 files, and there are some serious irregularities here in 70 cases. They have been granted gifts and loans, and they have been waiting for eight months because they have not deserved them. I call again to the Minister of Industry: there are very serious allegations about the president of KOSGEB. He needs to study these very seriously, and he needs to inform lawmakers about this in this parliament. On this occasion, I thank you all again, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you. The other speaker off the agenda is İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush, who wants to speak on behalf of Youth Week.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0005par0030	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise on Youth Week, which we celebrated from May 15th to May 21st. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, societies, with the spirit of youth, keep their spirit alive, change with it, and reach glory with it. The most important dynamic that will bring society to its glory, its spring is the excitement and dynamics of youth that doesn't fit in its core and seed. This goal is only possible with young people who are focused on this goal, who will guide our futures, who have national and spiritual values, who read, who study, who investigate, who produce, who have vision and mission, who have values and self-esteem. The generation of Mehmet Akif, the generation of Sezai Karakoch, and the generation of the resurrection of Maester Necip Fadil, which Mehmet Akif, called the youth ideal of youth, will lead us, our civilization, our values, to the place where he deserves it. To those of yesterday's youth and to us political makers, there are important tasks at the point of reviewing the potential of youth today and the architect of the future. As Aristotle said, focus on the growth of young people because the smallest neglect on this road destroys the structure and future of the country. Every effort for youth is the greatest investment to be made to mankind because it is unthinkable for any society to sustain its community without youth. As Peyami Safa put it, the life of a society whose youth is not alive is bedridden. Dear lawmakers, we, the AK PARTI family, did not see the potential of youth as a threat, as before. The political man thinks about the future election, the next generation of statesmen. From the principle, we have never been wrong to neglect youth, we will not fall, and we will continue to invest in our young people by folding it because we know very well what the young people of this land can accomplish. The political ideals and excitement of our young people, the ambitions of the group that are trying to maintain the custody and status quo system, I regret to say, was, unfortunately, sacrificed. September 6th, May 27th coup, March 12th, and September 12th coup were used directly as actors, ground-builders. Using the excitement and ideals of young people, this mindset has broken them together through ideological opposition, divided them, and used the legitimacy of their ugly political manipulation. They thought they'd get rid of the cruel and illegitimate coup plots they'd prepared by running away from Baghdad to invoice for our young people, such as those who were executed and victims of February 28th, but the wrong account returned from Baghdad. This mentality, its derivatives, and its successors have been accused of the justice system they thought would never answer for. This is how Turkey spent its youth wealth over the years, and in our time, youth is the future of a country. We've downloaded our digested, rustized youth into the country's present. That's how we got rid of the idea that young people are political interns and that they're an element to be raised. The basis of this arrangement is the logic that young people and young thinkers should not participate in fighting, but in ideas and democratic consciousness. This is a sign of our importance to youth and our confidence in youth. It's the determination and self-confidence of our young people that excites us at the point of the great and powerful Turkey ideal, the 2023, the 2053, and the 2071. Their self-esteem, determination, zeal is the greatest hope and assurance of this geography and the oppressed geography. I deeply believe that with the sacred values of their hearts, with the knowledge of their lofty ideals, this country's youth exceeds the limits of its concerns, will announce the long-limited voice of mankind and restore the global conscience. I hereby celebrate the Youth Week of our youth, and salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0006par0041	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Van MP Özdal Threeer, who asked for a comment on the problems of Van.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0007par0045	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the problems of the V.A.P. I salute the General Assembly. There are many historical problems in our country, but our province of Van, many political issues, many social problems, many economic problems, and unfortunately, the fact that thousands of earthquakes that have been created over the past two years have not been repaired and the wounds of the Van people have not been healed has greatly doubled. One of the most important problems of the state is the torture of political prisoners in the Van F Type Prison because the rights of being arrested do not even apply. The fact that people were already in prison there, or that many of them were still in prison, is illegal and illegitimate, and that even the rights of imprisonment there have not been implemented has eventually led to the hunger strike of 12 prisoners in Van F Type Prison. We hope that the prisoners, who are on hunger strike, will come to an arrangement and compromise according to the demands of the prisoners, and that our friends will give up their hunger strike, and they will have their rights. There's so much to say that it takes us five minutes to think about what it is we can say about the problems of Van. Especially after the earthquake, Van became a paradise of corruption. From the first day of the earthquake, official officials, government officials, we will turn this earthquake into an opportunity for the AKP people. TOKI is meant to put the people in jail somehow -- because of their own money -- because of the state's ability to become a social state -- when the government should have built the house and donated it to them, they sold it to them, and they didn't just sell it to them, they asked the people to sell it to them, but they sold it to them three times as much as the normal market price. Of course, contractors, contractors, subsidiaries, subsidiaries, subsidiary firms, who were close to ministers in the construction of the TOİKİ, made so much money that the earthquake actually became an opportunity for someone. Of course, it seems to me that saying these things, expressing corruption, doesn't mean anything to this House anymore, because I've been saying this for six years, and I'm saying this, but unfortunately, it's not about stealing, corruption, corruption, immorality, because the biggest disaster in a society is that society is corrupted by theft and corruption.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0008par0049	Some of it, not all of it, some of it...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0007par0050	I mean, for the legislature's government wing. Now, unfortunately, there's a partial criticism of the opposition. When it comes to regional problems, in some way, how do the Kurds fare? Let there be no call. Even when it is said, there is a partnership of the opposition, unfortunately. But instead of going to these kinds of problems, instead of solving these problems, unfortunately, this order has come and gone like this. I pay my respects in the hope that the freedom prisoners, the freedom prisoners, who have initially resisted the problems of Van Prison for freedom, will be freed immediately, especially Mr. Kemal Aktaş of Van, and all the political prisoners of Van, who were injured in the earthquake, will not experience such a wound again, such a persecution. That'll be all in five minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0009par0055	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu will respond to the extracurricular speech.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0010par0057	Mr. President, our most valued deputies, I salute you all. In particular, I've been promised to respond to Mr. Threeers' non-responsibility speech. First of all, the Congressman mentioned corruption. We absolutely deny it. Basically, if there was corruption... look, we just paid $23.5 billion to the IMF yesterday. We've filled the Federal Reserve's vault with $135 billion. Other than that, the required savings fund from the past is 13.5 quadrillion...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0011par0059	What about $600 billion, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0010par0060	KEY payments are 3.5 quadrillion, these are paid. Also, we've calculated that the banks that have been embezzled in the past period, today's value is $2231 billion...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0011par0061	You owe $340 billion on the outside.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0010par0062	This nation paid for them, this government paid for them. So, the safes are full, the debts are paid. Besides, all these investments are being made. In fact, all investments are epic. Thus, our beloved nation already sees this, and in the election, it gives them the answer.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0011par0063	He's giving, he's giving, don't worry. He'll give it to you next March!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0010par0064	In particular, of course, we've been mentioned here, our valued deputies, the Van. Look, it's epic in Van. In particular, I had the 1999 earthquake in the past, when I was head of the group responsible for infrastructure, sewers, drinking water, electricity, disaster work in Istanbul, and we saw that the government could only enter its site a month later and not make temporary dwellings for years, but the day of the earthquake....
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0011par0065	Mr. Secretary, tell the truth! The temporary dwellings were built in four months.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0010par0066	Sorry, we know how it's done.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0011par0067	You don't know anything.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0010par0068	...the day of the depression, our entire government was there, especially our Prime Minister. At least you can appreciate that. Unfortunately, some of the words in our Turkish have been forgotten. It's a compliment. The words, such as 'Istifat', 'taltif', 'takdir', began to be forgotten. It would be helpful if you could at least express the merits of your criticism. Look -- I'll tell you about the disaster investments -- except for the pardon -- we've made the biggest investments in Van. Look, just a few so far, the investments made by some investment ministers such as my Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, National Education, Transport, TOKI are over $7 billion, so 7 quadrillion by the end of last year. Look what we've done. We've opened up about 315,600 acres there to water. Many, including the Van Karasu watering, the Gürpınar rehydration, the Van Karasu bed rehab, the Ercish watering backup and the inverse channels, the regeneration of the watering of the Lakenegen pond in Özalp Look, so far, Congressman, we've reformed 41 creeks, I'm not going to mention their names, we can give them to you if you want, but we're still investing in Van.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0012par0071	Why haven't the tenders been held by the law for ten years?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0010par0072	For example, for our ministry, the Morgedik Dam is a very important dam in Van. We'll finish the Morgedik Dam this year, I hope, and water a great area there, like the Gap of Van, the Morgedik Dam. Besides, we'll give him water from the Morgedik Dam for Ercish, and the work has begun. We'll also provide water for the settlements in that area, again, Ercish and the surrounding settlements. Other than that, in order to find a radical solution to the van, you know, there's been a work of a Jesus line, which is 48km long, 2m in diameter, with a giant Jesus line, going on day and night to give water to the 15,000 cubic metres of storage. In fact, the pipe didn't grow, and we even moved the pipes of another construction site to Van. And right now, if God grants it, in August, this line ends, so that there will be no problem for Van. We're solving the drinking water problem with Erciş. Also, 25 more streams have been requested from our province of Van, and we've begun their construction. Other than that, look, especially the dehydration plant projects continue, and as soon as we're done, we'll tender it. Besides, we'll be bidding on seven ponds and watering. In Uzalp, the watering of the Lower Tulgalı pond, and again the watering of the Beaculous Pond at Özalp, and at Saray, and at the center of the Lake of Molpan, and at the center of the Lake of Whitestone, and at the center of Baklatepe, and at the center of the Middle Lake, these ponds and irrigations will be finished. In addition, the work of our Forest General Directorate continues, and even the General Directorate of Meteorology in Van (V.A.) has established nine automated meteorological measuring stations that have never existed before. See, these are the centers of Van, Özalp, Baskale, Ercish, Gevash, Muradiye, Bahçasaray, Antıran, Gürpınar, now demanded three more, and we will build it, Edremit, Saray, Çatak. Other than that, other ministries are still working, but in the meantime, I'd like to point out a few things about the disaster. Look, right now 15,421 disaster housing has been completed, plus 6,332 homes for the poor, small and middle-income, 80 agricultural villages have been completed, so -- pay attention -- 21,83 dwellings have been completed and delivered to the service of our citizens, and that's really -- I've been there many times, all of our ministers have gone at least three, five times, and I'm really proud of what our government has done when we see the helicopters do it. Now, is that enough? It's not enough. There are now 2,487 homes under construction, along with, hopefully, the number of dwellings that will rise to 24.320 this year. So about 25,000 dwellings, think about it, it's been rebuilt, it's been re-invented in the tender phase, 4,852 projects are currently under way in the project and tender phase. So the total will be 29.172. I mean, can you imagine that our government is actually building about 30,000 houses in Van. And so far, what you've actually been doing is really full of infrastructure, and I'm particularly interested in highlighting that. We've sealed several infrastructure studies. I'd like to sum this up. Let me sum up a few of these, if I may. EXCEPT for the work of TOİKÜ, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, our Ministry, other public institutions and corporations... look, there was a huge city of 30,000 containers that served 175,000 populations during the earthquake. We've also arranged for 1 75,000 citizens to spend the winter in hot containers with all kinds of possibilities. In these containers, a large population from fifty cities was served. Permanent housing has been delivered. In addition, to restore the infrastructure of the damaged Van (Van), my deputies were built into 44,400 metres of drinking water line, 15,000 metres of sewer, 7,000 metres of rainwater line, 21,000 meters of road and asphalt, 100,000 people's decontamination plant, and 11 tanks of water tanks capable of 30,000 cubic metres. So far, the amount spent on this purpose alone is $3.5 billion. With what is to be done, there will be an investment of about 5.5 billion euros, along with the infrastructure and housing. As I said earlier, if we add the investments of other ministries, we're investing about 7+5.5, about 12.5 billion euros in Van. So what's to be done that won't be appreciated? My deputy is talking about some corruption. Sir, if there's corruption, it's immediate. You can report it to the D.A.'s office. You can't... you can't recite it like that. As I've just stated, there's no business in a place where there's corruption, where there's corruption, where there's debt, where there's corruption, where there's money in the Central Bank, where there's money, there's empty. So, with these feelings, I salute you with respect, with love. May God protect us all, not only from Van, but from a new disaster throughout our country. Of course, those who have lost their lives in Van, and those who have lost their lives in other earthquakes, I pray for the mercy of the Lord God, and his kinsmen again. May God protect our nation from terror, of course from disasters. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0013par0085	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0014par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0013par0087	Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0014par0088	Mr. President, now, Mr. Secretary, instead of responding to what we say, again, has given statistically, data to what is known in public. But what we want are evaluations. For example, we have questions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0013par0089	We don't have that way. If it was just a tease, we'd have made a promise from there.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0015par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0013par0091	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0015par0092	Mr. President, at the time of our Minister's speech, Mr. Van Deputy, I believe that the information Mr. Threeer is not true, that our Congressman is speaking by heart...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0013par0093	Is it because Mr. Three didn't make sense, Mr. Bauken?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0016par0094	Yes, it is.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0015par0095	He said he spoke by heart. That's why we want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0013par0096	Here you go, Mr. Threeer. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0017par0098	If I had known there was a democratic demand, I would have expressed it. I could have picked it up at the do-it-go spot while I was making it up.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0013par0099	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0017par0102	Mr. President, not because I can't express it, but because I've asked for a say in the matter of a democratic president, I've asked my position briefly. It is only natural for a congressman to request a parliamentary speaker's position and to give him a voice. No, it's the easiest thing to do if it's to bring him in, make a pun, take words out of words, turn it into a procedure in this House. I tried to do the right thing, the most democratic thing. I'd like to point out that the Minister has spoken by heart. I didn't recite it. I'm speaking the truth and I'm asking questions based on the right to get information. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0018par0105	And you're...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0017par0106	Take a stand, talk like one. Don't jump and jump.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0019par0107	Okay, Mr. Ozdal, talk to me about Van.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0020par0108	Mr. Ozdal, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0017par0109	Why wasn't the disaster zone declared, Van? What account did you do that? Because if the disaster zone had been declared, some arrangements would have been made for the benefit of the citizens. But you didn't declare a disaster zone because you didn't think of the benefit of the citizen. Why, for ten years, have all institutions been contracting in an emergency fashion? Why is it that the people who received those tenders are all close to your ministers, your political personalities? Why are multimillion-dollar tenders made with closed envelopes? You don't have the courage or the knowledge to explain any of this. You're the one who speaks by heart, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0019par0111	How much is the dwelling?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0021par0112	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 16 March 1978, the incident, which took place in the White Sea Square, was called the White Sea massacre, which was staged to prepare an environment for the coup on September 12th. Seven students were killed in the massacre, dozens of students were injured. The trial went on for years and expired. Before the incident, it became clear that the police had received the necessary intel and were given detailed information on the location and time of the planned action, but that the necessary measures were not taken. In fact, serious allegations were made that police officers in front of İstanbul University were acting as part of the plan, and police were prosecuted. However, he was acquitted for lack of evidence. There was only a nine-man police force on that day while there were about 40 police officers on duty. Some law enforcement officers have been left indifferent to their duties, while a police officer named Resat Altay has been reprimanded for failing to protect students leaving the university to the point of dispersion. This punishment is the only punishment for the accused's safety. A bomb was first dropped on the students who had made a mass exit, followed by a volley of automatic rifles. The fact that the action was organized in this way means that as many people as possible are being killed. On the other hand, it is interpreted as organised and possibly security-sponsored by both firing bombs and being scanned with automatic rifles. In the wake of some police officers trying to track down the perpetrators, it has been confirmed by police officers who were stationed there as well as Sergeant Reşat Altay's obstacle, and that information has been made public. The names of the young who lost their lives in the whitebird massacre are: Abdullah Simsek, Baki Eziz, Cemil Sönmez, Hamid Hakı, Hatice Özen, Murat Kurt and Turan Ören. They were all left-wing and belonged to various political parties and youth associations. Thus, the massacre has a profound impact on both political content and social context. It is also possible that it is intended to lay the groundwork for the coup process. One of the perpetrators, Zulküf Isot, confessed to the massacre. However, he was killed by Latif Acti, a friend of his, before he could contribute to the revelation. Zülküf Isot's sister referred the statements to the court. Despite witnesses and evidence, another massacre has been put on hold. Enlightenment of the March 16 massacre and the discovery of the forces behind it will be an important step for the democracy of our country. A long time has passed, such as 34 years, and the fact that the issue still remains unexplained is a great flaw in the name of our democracy. We propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to illuminate the massacre, identify the perpetrators and supporters, investigate their links to the coup process, and meet the expectations of the victims' relatives and public justice. [[Malatya]] [[Edirne]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 7) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] 9) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 10) Mahmut Tanal - [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 17) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[Niğde]] [[Çanakkale]] 26) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons for the dam accident in Kozan district of Adana, and the legal shortcomings in the control and license issues of the power generation plants, we propose and propose the opening of parliamentary research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98 and Turkish National Assembly. Building bridge dams in Adana Kozan exploded, seven workers disappeared, three workers lost their lives, and two workers were rescued injured. There was a leak caused by cracks in the bridge dam and the hatches of HES, which began building on the Seyhan River in 2009. The hatches that were trying to open, they couldn't stand the pressure water, and they exploded. In the accident where many workers were caught in water, four trucks, one dozer, six businesses of different sizes were also dragged along with the current. A road transport bridge was also destroyed because of the dam water, and the access to the area was difficult. The area has been provided with alternative routes. The fact that power plants are a common problem in licenses, inspections and construction is evident. The accumulation of State Water Affairs has been destroyed over time, new staff has not been taken, and the DSI has been unable to conduct inspections. The license and control responsibility were given to the EPDK (EPDK) but the license of the EPDK (EPDK) from Ankara to study projects has become a general rule and has failed to make inspections, leaving the production and operating security of the power generation plants entirely in the hands of the manufacturer. Electric production plants in Turkey do not have an audit law. The existing laws cannot provide for today's needs. It is now our common responsibility to determine the causes of the accident and the shortcomings of the process leading up to the accident and to determine the measures that must be taken. If no measures are taken, electrical production plants filled with audits and legal regulations will continue to carry risks, unwanted accidents will be inevitable. We'd like to extend our appreciation for the opening of a parliamentary investigation into the matter. [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] [[Mughle]] 5) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] 12) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[Niğde]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons for increased suicides due to credit card and consumer debt, to examine legal regulations and the positions of banks and to reveal relevant solutions immediately, we respectfully submit the Constitution's obligation to open Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of Turkey's National Assembly. 28/2/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Antalya]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 11) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[Niğde]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] The credit card has various definitions. In Latin, the word "credere" refers to "safety and trust" to no one, and the credit card maker is pregnant, and the credit card maker is only represented by the term "efficiency card" or "trust card" instead of the term "religion card" or "trust card" because he decided to do the necessary examinations and pay them on time. On the official website of the Interbank Card Centre, the credit card has been described as "a means of payment by authorities to provide their customers with loans within certain limits, goods and services without using cash, access to cash loans." The credit card, a credit card, should have been a safety card, but the last ten years were examined, and more than 200 citizens attempted suicide or suicide due to credit cards and bank loans. This issue does not include those who are divorced, homeless, and those who are employed because of their credit card and bank loans. The practice of credit card and bank loans is a victim of citizens. While banks adopt the principle of profit maximization, individuals live under difficult circumstances. In order to increase the profits of banks, credit cards for everyone, the lack of firm determination of card limits according to one's income, the high cost, expense and commission from consumers drags consumers into a difficult situation, even to suicide. To address debt suicides, authorities must maintain credit card interest at a fair and appropriate level, preventing illegal practices and taking measures. Access to credit cards is open to everyone. Credit cards and bank loans are created by advertising to encourage large crowds and to encourage consumption, and by doing so, people spend too much by manipulating them. After reviewing the last decade's process, the amount of credit card debt and loans appears to have increased by $212 billion. Despite restrictions, nearly 5 million credit cards have been issued in the last year. According to the 2011 report of the Federation of Consumptive Associations, the Bureau of Family and Social Investigations research states that seven of the 10 married couples divorced after 2000 due to credit card debt. As of the end of 2011, 43.5 million people are in debt to banks and 1.4 million people are being traced for 6.2 million credit cards due to credit card debt. When the relevant data is examined, loans and bank loans are given credit cards due to the damage done to citizens in social, economic and health issues, while the limit is set and the credit card is put on interest, more strict measures must be taken, no arbitrary distribution of credit cards, a very clear writing of credit agreements and anti-law practices must end immediately. On all these grounds, we respectfully submit to the need of the Constitution to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104, and 105 of the Constitution, under Article 104, and by Article 105, in order to determine the reasons for increased suicides due to credit card and consumer debt, review the legal arrangements and relevant solutions of the bank. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 15/5/2013 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 12 February 2013, Iğdır MP was awarded (2571 rows) by Group Deputy President Pervin Buldan. The parliamentary inquiry motion, which has been submitted to the Grand National Assembly in order to investigate abuse and arbitrary practices in prisons, has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, to be read in Wednesday's 15/05/2013 jointly, and to be held in the same historic combination of talks. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for the group's proposal, Özdal Threeer, Van MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0022par0300	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our group's proposal. I salute the General Assembly. I will define one of our country's most important problems as the state issue, because it is generally referred to as the Kurdish problem, as if the Kurds were a problem, but state policies against Kurds have always been a problem if they are to be historically classified and defined. Today he entered a phase of resolution and... while the Kurdish people were expected to fulfill their responsibilities at the beginning of the withdrawal of the call of Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, while the government and the government were expected to meet their own responsibility, the political prisoners who had found the tens of thousands should be released immediately, while they should be freed, unfortunately they are being held hostage unfairly, unlawfully. All the public's expectations are that all these operations have been conducted, unfairly, unlawfully, all these people have been taken into custody, tortured in detention, tortured in prison, and there have been people in prison who have been deprived of the right to be ill and treatment. Since there were no healthy treatments, there were people who had advanced diseases, people who had amnesia, people who had cancer, people who had lost their lives, but there was never an attempt to be sensitive to them. Expectations are being implemented to promote democracy, to recognise rights and freedoms, to increase violence, to increase persecution, while taking steps of mutual responsibility for the solution. It's both diet and sauerkraut. Now, the KCK operations have been stopped. They're trying to stop it. But in Van. In Diyarbakir, children, young people are being slaughtered by the police of the state itself. There is talk of the explosion in Syria. Now, that's terrorism, but there's no common position against this terror. But who were the ones who condoned this terror that allowed exports of pounds and tons of bombs across the border? Which state's interior minister will we hold responsible for him, which state's foreign minister will we hold responsible for him, which state's prime minister, police chief, general staff? I thought you said you couldn't fly birds across borders. Tons of bombs are coming into a city, but there's no intel on it, there's no information about it, but on May 1st, the bottle of water that was carried out by Dilan What law enforcement agency, which state law enforcement agency is its own citizen... is saying slogans for the employee's rights, being a terrorist, but allowing someone to carry those bombs on the border himself. That's the reality of this country, that's the problem with the state. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in this country who tax themselves and fulfill their civic responsibilities are put in prison, put through torture countertops, but also supported by terror forces serving the hegemony of international forces. A truck bomb gets into the middle of Reyhanlı, and the government, who boasts of any intelligence ability, cannot detect that bomb-loaded truck. Who are you gonna make believe that? Who can you fool about that? If there's intimacy, responsibilities will be met immediately. The retreats have begun and the world is in a state of ecstasy. For thousands of years, the people, the families, the young, the elderly, are in a state of hope, with the longing for peace, with the longing for mutual steps, but the protection is imposed on the people of Van. How many rangers were assigned to the van? Why was the ranger assigned a staff? Why have new weapons been distributed? The gun given to that ranger... we have one of the world's most powerful armies. If there's a strong army, if it's a strong government, why should the ranger help? They need to be questioned. If those people are so popular... see if there are 80 thousand or so rangers in this country who are 18 years old... who will be paid for their unemployment as they are in all democratic world countries. Many people have been forced to accept protection because if you do not accept protection, I will burn, destroy, destroy your village, kill your children. There have been thousands of people who have been threatened by protection but have been robbed of protection and have used the gun the state has given him as a force for themselves. There have been people who have organized gangs, loan sharks, murderers, massacred people, but those who have committed crimes have not been tried, and the people have been tried in some way. Nearly 5,000 villages were burned down. Millions of people have been forced to emigrate from the village that has not yet been determined, and those who have not emigrated will not be able to live here unless you are a protector. There have been threats. The steps taken while waiting for a solution for the rangers... are called interviews and we have taken rangers. It's called "The Rangers." There are new detentions every day when prisons are expected to be evacuated. A Kurdish youth is being murdered by the police of the state for throwing a slogan in the middle of Diyarbakir. Damn it! If there's gonna be peace, it's gonna be genuine. There is no other society that yearns for peace as much as the rest of us. When we talk about peace, it's like we're needy, but you're not needy, and it's like demanding peace is an act of love, and it's not a solution anymore. There's a public movement that resists for freedom and has thousands of martyrs, and despite all its might, a request for peace, an honorable peace demand, and the conditions needed to establish this peace, some justice, some freedom, democracy.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0023par0308	Tell him there, over there.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0022par0309	No, you're responsible. Democracy...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0023par0310	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0022par0311	This country was not ruled by a ten-year state policy. The history of persecution for Kurds is not limited to ten years, nor is it limited to a hundred years. The hope of peace for a people who have resisted persecution through the pattern for thousands of years is not just for themselves. In Zilan, in Amed, in Mahabad, in Kamişlı, in Serekani, in Aleppoce, we want peace with the people they live with, and we want democratic peace for peace, we want democratic solutions, we need political freedoms for a democratic solution, we need mutual steps, political hostages should be released, the main language should be free, democratic, social rights should be recognised, have a right to govern with the people they want. The only thing that guarantees peace is right and freedom. We're talking about freedom of speech. Today is the beginning of Youth Week, and today is Kurdish Language Day. All Kurdistan is celebrated by all Kurds as a holiday by Kurds all over the world, but is there a state that accepts it? No. The language of the Kurds was not accepted so that the holiday could be accepted, but despite all the persecution and denial, the Kurds speak the language, celebrates its holiday. Happy Kurdish Language Day to all Kurds and all the people who demand freedom. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0024par0316	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Bronzeç, Bartın MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0025par0319	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. We're here to discuss a group proposal for the BDP to be put on the agenda of today's Parliament for the study of the BDP of abuse and the detection of arbitrary practices in prisons and the investigation of the problems caused by them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is important to remember the past first in terms of the state of our prisons, the conditions of the prisoners and the prisoners. What was it in the past, when the AK PARTY government came, let's put it first. In 2002, there were 528 penal institutions in our country. Criminal execution institutions were built according to the crowded ward system. This was the basis for riots and escape attempts, extortion, questioning and punishment within the institution, forcing other prisoners and prisoners to go on a death fast or hunger strike, assaulting staff, posting banners, training in terrorism, not sending them to trial. In the last ten years, 208 penal institutions have been closed that have not met the standards of the United Nations and the Council of Europe. Again, 68 criminal execution institutions with the capacity of 50,000 people in the same period have been opened. As of today, we have a total of 388 penal institutions in our country. Since 2002, 73 criminal execution institutions have been completely converted into room systems. In addition, large repairs have been made to these criminal execution institutions and their physical weaknesses have been repaired, their bathroom, kitchen, and mess halls have been renovated. 20 criminal execution institutions have been operated by construction of additional units with workshops, closed-open sports fields, cultural fields of activity. As it turns out, the number of penal institutions has been increased, while its qualifications have also been increased. Under the protocol conducted by the Ministry of Health in 2009, important regulations have been made in our prisons concerning the health conditions of prisoners and the health care opportunities of prisoners, and the implementation of 50-100-bed-access state hospital projects in the form of campus execution institutions. Children's prisons with a single room system, with a bathroom and toilet in them, where the 24-hour recovery officer was on duty, where they could stay with their families from time to time. In order to solve the problems of criminal execution institutions, only physical resources are not satisfied with improving them. Important legislation amendments have been made regarding the rights of prisoners and prisoners due to human dignity. Criticism in the trial motion is highly unfair in the prisons expressed in the period of the coup. If there is an example of abuse in the application, of course it must be followed. All these improvements, legislation changes, improvements in the execution system, if there are isolated incidents from a number of people, an officer, then, of course, they must be dealt with and punished. I'd like to point out that it's a very unfair criticism to say that the practices in prisons are common, that they're going on, that they're so much legal, that they're increasing physical resources. Physical improvements and improvements in the field of legislation that I've just mentioned are the means provided by the power of the EC PARTY. The closure of prisons that do not meet the standards of the United Nations and the Council of Europe is under way at this time, and prisons that meet standards are starting to open at this time. The arrangement that allows talks to be held in prisons in the main language is an opportunity by the AK PARTI government. With changes in the execution legislation, the possibility of a prison sentence was brought to this period by sanctions and postponement. The control of criminal execution institutions through independent councils has been made during this period in the matter of judicial control over any action carried out in criminal execution institutions, the training of staff in criminal execution institutions. In order to ensure that prisoners fit in with the outside world, maintain and strengthen their ties to their families, by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure, the re-enlistment of prisoners with a year and less time to be released on probation was carried out during this period, and nearly 40,000 prisoners were taken advantage of. In this period, it has also been facilitated for the inmates to switch from closed execution institutions to open execution institutions to ensure the adoption of good-documented prisoners. The third judicial package extended the scope of judicial control and lifted a three-year upper limit for the implementation of the judicial control measure, allowing judicial control for all crimes. Prisoners and prisoners have been granted access to their relatives' funerals and visits in cases of severe illness. In cases of severe illness in the first degree, it has been granted only two days except for one of the relatives, including the second degree, or the death of his wife. The delay of the execution of the sentence for the critical patients who need care in prison is one of the last opportunities we've brought in a court of law package we've made.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0026par0329	Everyone's dying in prison there, dear brother.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0025par0330	Some measures have allowed convicts and suspects to follow without arrest through electronic surveillance. The conditions in prisons are extremely sensitive to the rights of prisoners and prisoners, and there has been an app for ten and a half years. For ten and a half years, our practices have been adaptable to human rights, universal standards, standards of the Council of Europe, the United Nations standards, as well as the penal justice system in Turkey. In this regard, the universal standards are made according to their standards. If there is a breach of rights, if it is detected, the parliamentary investigation will be immediately interfered with, and the necessary administrative and criminal investigations will be conducted. That's why the BDP says I'm against the group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0027par0333	Thank you. Melda Onur, MP of İstanbul, has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0028par0335	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate the conditions of the prisons. Dear friends, it was recently, I was looking at May's agenda, and I noticed what had happened in the past: on May 18, 1978, the Midnight Express was shown to a group of journalists from different countries as part of the Cannes Film Festival. You know Midnight Express is the trauma of our youth, of our childhood. Those who went abroad as students or wanted to have a word with a tourist who came to this country were directly terrorized by a Midnight Express, the Midnight Express. This film, unfortunately, has wasted our youth. Maybe you know the movie. And then the writer, the director, was it too much, they said, we put you in too much trouble, but... the film is like this: an American named Billy Hayes is caught in a joint in Turkey, he gets thrown in, he goes to various prisons, and eventually he runs away. I don't know which prison he escaped from. Does anyone know? I didn't know. I saw it recently, sir, when I read it, he escaped from the Imran, his last prison was the Imran, and he wrote this book with quotes from various prisons in the country... Of course, we can say that the Imrarian is no longer like that, and fortunately, not in his old days. That's probably because the MPs are going to see the Imralı. In fact, the conditions of the condemned citizen lying in Imralı are the proper conditions that should be in all our prisons. But when we look at other prisons, we don't see the same thing. Now, of course, our Congressman just gave us various improvements, constructions, figures, but... at least I've talked here twice or three times, so how many research proposals have been made, how many questions have been made, we can't remember the number. Here are the talks of our dear friends, the talks of Veli. Of Nurettin Bey. of Free Private, of our friends from BDP. You know, we're tired of walking around, talking about it, we're really tired, I don't know if the ruling party isn't tired of listening and refusing. I'm just curious about one thing. This is a couple of letters my secretary handed to me today. Oh, I wonder if these letters actually come to our AKP MP friends. I don't think he's coming, but unfortunately, the arrangements don't reflect much of the truth, the real tragedy. Looks like there's still no change. I'll tell you this: now our friends inside are already sending the reports with letters like this, and we're going through them. For example, they wrote and sent a serious report from Kandira Prison in March 2013 as reports of rights thefts. Here is the right to communicate, the right to discipline, the right to broadcast, and other rights extortions. And the prison administration sat down and wrote us a case against them. Now, let's assume that you're going to say, "He" to a research proposal like this, you said, "Yes" -- if you say you're going to go down in history -- so what is it, what is it going to be researched? Look, I'll tell you a few things: Now, for example, some disciplinary measures are coming in and they have rights to appeal, rights to appeal. Now, the rights to appeal are yes, but most of them are not considered, and these rights to appeal are being imposed here. Let's take a look, see if there's any of this. For example, in the prison administration's letter, there's one thing: prisoners of terror organization and prisoners of the terrorist organization may now be prisoners of the terrorist organization, but there's no such thing as prisoners of the terrorist organization, he's in the judicial process. You're going to say, "What does it matter if the prison administration makes statements like they're under arrest for membership in the terrorist organization?" I think it matters a lot; it matters a lot from a perspective, from a perception. Sir, by copying the same letter, they make it look like the right to communicate is too much. He'll copy the same letter, but they're already sending it to various people. The photo of Mahir Çayan is being confiscated. I don't understand why they're impounding a photo of Mahir Çayan. Remember Mahir Teaan, the beloved films were made, and television shows were made. Why is the photo of Mahir Çayan being confiscated, and why does it still require disciplinary action? What's the point of that? Sir, is there still a sponged cell torture chamber in prison or not? Do you have any? Let's look into this. Is there a sponge torture chamber or not? This is what's gonna come up in this investigation once and for all. Naked search. We've told you 40 times, you're not gonna rob these people, brother. Being robbed is torture. You do the most beautiful constructions in the world... my deputy told me very well. But if you're robbing him naked at the entrance, that's not gonna happen. And they do it to women. I'm saying it doesn't matter if it's a man or a woman. Other than that, sir, conversation rights are not approved due to lack of staff and space. Congressman, you've just talked about increased venues, logistical improvements, but because of the lack of space and staff, the rights of conversation cannot be implemented enough. That's what we're going to look into. And a lot more. Here, you don't give typewriters, you don't give them, you don't give them that. And the sick prisoners and prisoners. Dear friends, I'm sure you've heard of Mete Tooth. I mean, at least 100 letters to us, that's probably about as much to the BDP as they come to the Human Rights Commission. Are we waiting for our friend Meta Tooth to die to get us out? And many more. So because of Mete Tooth, we are tired of opening letters and reading letters from all the prisons of Turkey. And there's a lot of other names like Mete Tooth. He just mentioned a health improvement, Congressman. I'll tell you one thing: Now, in case of illness, there is no punishment for communication. There is a sentence, beautiful, wonderful. But do you know who's sick? He's out there with a family member's disease. That doesn't apply to the insider's illness. I don't know if you knew that. I didn't know. How did I find out? We have an inmate named Fusun Erdogan, who's been in jail for seven years. He's a communication penalty, singing unnecessary anthems, singing songs... oh, look, there's this unnecessary march, song. Our friend's having an operation, thyroid surgery. The family hasn't spoken in three months, that's not gonna happen. So, we looked at the code and we said, well, there's this thing, so in case of illness, the communication penalty is being lifted. No, sir, if he's a relative, if he's sick, so if his next of kin is sick, then his punishment for communication is... what do we do with him inside? We're gonna kill him? Yes, dear friends, please, we ask you to stop discussing these research proposals here. And here's what I counted on you when we asked for it. Our beloved Regent just said a very nice thing, and I'll repeat it, and he said: "We've done some very nice things, but if there's abuse in practice and so on, then we'll have to go over it. Let's go. There's a lot of bad, negative procedures in the application. Why do you have this House? These are research proposals... they're not made to blow your brains out for nothing, and so are we, you know, to make our lips dry, to make us tired. For God's sake, I spoke here again in one of Pervin's research proposals, and another friend gave it to me. I mean, how many times is that, how many times is that going to be? Who knows if he's waiting in line. Please, we've already said peace and so on and so on and so on and so on and so forth. Let us set them free to make peace with those who are in it. Let us set things right and heal them. I mean, we've done so many prisons here, we've provided so many logistical facilities... but the treatment is bad, the treatment is bad. Please... and most importantly, I think the words of those of us who are called the wing leaders, especially to prisons, have shown very serious positive or negative actions for me prison wardens. So, from the very beginning, I'd like to ask the government members -- there is no Minister here -- all the ministers and you AKP MPs. That's enough. Really, we're all sick and tired of dealing with it. So now, after these words, I expect a moment from you, and I wish you all a good day. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0029par0352	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0030par0355	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party. The secretary of the Peace and Democracy Party has made complete, abstract claims about the conditions in prison here. The heart would want to be able to make something concrete so we could answer it. On the other hand, the minister of the Republican People's Party also spoke of some isolated allegations. These individual claims are, of course, serious, remarkable, they need to be handled, they need to be addressed. On the other hand, the two structures of the penal regime must be infrastructure. What are the conditions of the prison, physically, and the legal infrastructure of the execution regime, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the conditions of the Universal Bill of Human Rights? I need to take a look at this. In the criminal execution regime, the rules in our legislation on execution of security measures apply to convicts, regardless of race, language, religion, religion, nationality, color, gender, philosophy, philosophy, national origin and political and other ideas, economic powers and other social positions, and no exceptions to anyone. There is no cruel, inhuman, humiliating, and degrading conduct at the execution. It's basic doctrine. That's the ideal target in all execution regimes in law enforcement. In our prisons, universal rules are observed to a maximum extent; in contrast, if there is a claim, it has to be done, it has to be done in the legal and criminal system. It's already done in our legislation. On the other hand, Mr. Yilmaz Junior, a valued lawyer for technical infrastructure and the legal infrastructure of our criminal execution regime, also said that he needed to be here, giving extensive information. We thank him for that, too. In response to claims from the United Nations and the Republican People's Party who have not met the standards of the Council of Europe. Here, modern prisons have been built, rather than bragging about the prisons of the AK PARTI administrations, as well as creating an infrastructure of the Council of Europe and the United Nations' criminal justice regime, human rights, justice, dignity of prisoners and prisoners, and the dignity of prisoners, and the execution regime, which has never been established. That's the intention here. In accordance with the standards set forth by the European Council of Human Rights and the United Nations and the Council of Europe, the prison is closed in close to 209. 68 prisons were built in that sense. Rather than bragging about the number of prisons, it has been said that the prisons are to be held in prison, in accordance with the execution regime of prisoners and prisoners, in accordance with the law of execution. Model children's prisons are designed to comply with the humanitarian practices of execution. As a result, every step has been taken to regulate the conditions of the prison when our governments came to work. Our prisons have been appreciated in reports of universal control of prisons. It was built during the time of our physical and legal infrastructure governments, where prisoners and prisoners were sentenced to death with respect to human rights. Again, the law of defence and opinion in the native language has been lifted, especially in the Prime Minister's generality, in the main language. In the main language, the right to defend the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party is under law on the Assembly General Assembly, despite all obstacles. A year or so before they were released on probation has been provided for the possibility of supervised freedom of prisoners. On this occasion, over 21,000 prisoners have taken advantage of this legal regime. The Ministry of Justice for the diet of prisoners and prisoners who suffer from their diet for special reasons, such as their beliefs or vegetarians. Again, here he spoke of the incident of treatment of prisoners and prisoners in prison, the Minister of the Peace and Democracy Party. Here, in particular, in accordance with the protocol between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, their treatment costs are covered by the state. The patient is being treated for treatment at the prison clinic in prison, but if the conditions there are not necessary for medical treatment, it is also facilitated by the doctor's report to the outside hospitals in case it is fixed. Again, all legal legislation has been changed during our administrations to prevent torture and eliminate claims by passing the policy of zero tolerance into torture under the framework of the integration of the European Union. Meanwhile, this General Assembly has passed the statute of limitations on torture again. At the point of the establishment of physical conditions and legal infrastructure for the execution regime, the audit is under the supervision of the 135 independent monitoring boards and the 141 execution judges, as well as at the international level the European Committee for the Protection of Torture and Demeaning Opposition Committee of the United Nations. Again, in the Turkish legal system, republican prosecutors, justice inspectors, human rights boards, Turkey's Grand National Assembly Human Rights Commission has established a subcommittee. The minimum is that when we look at the basic assessment of the members of the commission here, a large percentage is being supervised by a civil initiative consisting of NGOs. As a result, the physical conditions are designed to ensure modern, human life and the fulfillment of the execution in accordance with human dignity, and thus the execution regime is justified. Therefore, the Party of Peace and Democracy's group proposal to change the agenda is a matuf, a mathematical proposal to extend the agenda, is abstract, it is an erection. Therefore I salute the General Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0031par0372	Thank you. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0032par0374	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0031par0375	Here, I promise. What do you want to say?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0032par0376	Mr. President, it's been announced that it's abstract and sacred. Unfortunately, it's concrete, and it's confidential, because here's a list of the official patients we're talking about. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say that this is a reality, that it's not abstract, that it's concrete information...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0031par0377	Two minutes, I promise, for bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0032par0381	Mr. President, I would like to point out by reading the names on the criticism of the speakers and that our claim is abstract, that it is baseless, that it is not true. Lu F Type Closed Prison; Avni Flyer, Siirt E Type; Abdullah Kalay, Kandira 2 No. Lu; Ahmet Archboğa, Fractured 2 No. Lu, Ali Akber Orük, Erzurum H Type; Ali Teke, Kandira No. Lu; Aslan Karslı, Kürkçıler F Type; Aydın Çubukçı, Midyat M Type, Ayhan Tekcanlı, Edirne Pınarhisar Closed Prison; Angel Mtsweni, Bakırköy Women's Prison; Ahmet Özturk, Sincan 2 No. ; Bekir Simsek, Edirne F Type; Bişar Bilen, Erzurum H Type; Bkent Özdemir, Cemil Erdem, Cengiz Kahraman, Cengiz Sinan, Halis Steel; TED Alturk, Civan Boltan, Generous Bozkurt, Deniz Yıldız, Revolution Burakmak, Doğan Karataştan, Engin Aktaş, Ergül Flowers, Erkan Nasıroğlu, Ersan Nazlıer, Erhan Special, Eray Öçen, Fahrettin Çelik; Feseh Aslan, Fatih Hilmioğlu, Bay Fikret, Karataş, Doğan Karataştan, Engin Aktaş, Erkan Nasiroğlu, İnan Akkan Nazlıeroğlu, İsın, İsın, İşnan, İşnan Aknan, İsın, İsın, İşan İnan, İşnan, İnan, İnan, İnan, İşnan, İnan, İnan, İş, İnan, İç, İç, İsın, İç, İş, İşan İşın, İç, İç, İnan, İnan, İşın, İç, İç, İşan, İşan, İnan, İç, İşan, İşan İşan, İşan, İşan İşan, İşan İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İçan, İşan, İşan, İçan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İçan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İçan, İşan, İçan, İşan, İçan, İşan, İşan, İşan, İ If there had been time... Think about it, there's so much that there's not enough time to count names, and these are people who are identified by independent associations, by human rights associations and health organizations. These are all 122 people who need to be set free because of their health conditions. 122 lives, 122 consciences. All hail the resistance of freedom.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0033par0385	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, you have a request.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0034par0387	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0033par0388	If you don't want me to, I'll turn it off.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0034par0389	No, we asked before, we thought it was forgotten.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0033par0390	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0034par0393	Today, May 15th, the Kurdish daily Hawar, released by Celadet Ali Badirhan in 1932, is celebrated as the festival of Kurdish Language. This festival has a profound significance for protecting, sustaining, and developing the mother tongue because the mother tongue is the honor of a people. In the 21st century, we feel that it is an indispensable democratic right in our country to remove obstacles to all major languages, to give freedom to the main language from education to public domain. We believe that every mother tongue in this country has the right to be as lawful as their mother's milk, as holy as their mother's milk. We want to emphasize our country's desire to be transformed into a multicultural, multilingual, multi-religious, multi-identified flower garden. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0035par0396	Thank you. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (15/05/2013), I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly as required by Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On April 17, 2012, 4464, and 18 October 2012, 6505, and TBM President of the Grand National Assembly, it was suggested that the necessary research on the agenda of the agenda of the Grand National Assembly be carried out on the 10/207 and on Wednesday 15/05/2013 of our parliamentary research proposals for the resolution and resolution of the problems of our citizens. Mesut Dedeoğlu is a member of Kahramanmarash MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0036par0413	Mr. President, dear MPs, as the National Movement Party Group, I have been promised our parliamentary research proposal for the disabled and their problems, and I salute you all. Unfortunately, there are 8.5 million disabled citizens among our 75 million citizens in Turkey. These are, of course, jobs, health problems, access issues, education issues, sports, and we have to regret that there are huge problems going on. To gather these disabled citizens under four main groups, we collect them under four groups - visually impaired, mentally disabled, deaf and physically disabled. One of their biggest problems is the access to the physical disability group, the ability to get out of the house. With these, their biggest problem is education again, one of the biggest problems among the four disabled groups, because they can't get the necessary training. One of their biggest problems again is the fact that the mentally disabled are kept in the house, that they are not shown to anyone, that they do not leave the house. Our local governments have the greatest approach and duty to the physically disabled and the visually impaired. The Law on our local governments, number 5378 -- which had previously appeared in this Parliament -- has not been done in the general sense in seven years, and by entering the extension system for three more years, local governments will be able to meet places where physical and visually impaired can be used by 7/7/2015. We'll see what happens in the last two and a half years in this system where nothing's been done in seven years. But these things need to be done quickly. The most important points in developed countries are the values they give to the disabled. As much as a country values its disability, its education, its rehabilitation, its sports, or rather, the values it has given it, however successful it is, it is the standard to be called the developed country. Now, when we look back at Turkey, we can look at many of the problems of the disabled together, including our daily lives. We're looking at schools, whether it's school management training, or private mental-impaired school, visual school, separate schools, joint schools, we haven't decided today. It's the right one in the world. We have to make the right decision in the world and apply it in Turkey. The disabled aren't our pathetic people. We just have to give the disabled the opportunity, and we have to do it with the laws that will come out of this parliament. There's nothing they can't accomplish if we can afford the disabled. I'd like to talk to you about a possible subject. In recent years of sports for disabled persons, especially in one decade or fifteen years, they have brought to Turkey many successes in the world, in Europe, and in Olympic and paralympic games, with opportunities for the establishment of disabled sports federations. They sent out our moon-star flag and made us read the Istrillal March. Physically disabled... have achieved success in the four disability federation of this issue in 2000, especially in wheel basketball, weightlifting majors, archery, world, Europe, and paralympic games. In the visually impaired game, as such, the Federation was formed in 2000, and for the first time in Turkey as a team, the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games also received a medal and led to a team of firsts. That means that when we give the opportunity, there's nothing the disabled can't do, and there's nothing they can't do. Mentally disabled, once deaf... they gave us great happiness and success in Turkey... in Europe, in the world, in the Olympics, in paralympic games. If we continue to provide them with these facilities, more success, more medals, and more Istrial March, they will make us very happy. As long as we can help them, get them out of the way. Now we're talking about education. Next thing you know, he's educated, finished middle school, or finished high school, and what's this disabled gonna do next? Job employment... 8.5 million of our disabled people have only been able to find work, and the rest, unfortunately, has to stay at home; and if the rest of them can get out, they have to travel the streets or spend time in their associations. We have to create jobs for them, we have to help them. Now, with a law that's been passed before, they have to hire 4% and 3% in the private sector and public enterprises. Now, the government doesn't apply it, unfortunately, it doesn't. The private sector follows, of course, justly. The private sector brings water from 40 brooks so that the government doesn't apply it. Now, as Congress, at the point of hiring 3% and 4% of all groups, providing employment, as MP of the National Movement Party, and as a group, at the point of reaching 7 percent of this figure, I have already proposed a law. Come on, let's all be together, at the point of providing jobs for these disabled people, let's make this bill a law for all of us. After finishing secondary school, our disabled people should start working in the private sector and in public institutions, in terms of providing jobs by 7 per cent. Let's help them to remain at home, listen to themselves, and not become a second disability again because of thinking about these problems when they are disabled. All of you, let's make this law, which is that our law hasn't even entered the commission yet, and it's just waiting on its own. However, one of the biggest problems of the physically disabled is that today, we are still collecting blue lids in Turkey, which we refer to as a developed country, and cars sold at symbolic prices are distributed to our citizens by collecting blue lids. Let's do this together, by government hands. In fact, let's do this with a government hand, so that we can build the factory -- the future of this -- to Turkey, to build the electric car, to encourage it, to help the disabled at some point who can't get out of the house. Let's provide them as a government, all of us together to help the disabled. Now, we're making some laws about the disabled, and then we're making the laws that we've made to comfort them again. What is it? I'd like to give you an example of one of these: they can't sell cars from abroad in five years. Okay, well, that's the law, but now it's up to ten years. This is an injustice to the disabled. We have to be very careful with these laws. At any point in helping them, we need to support them. Other than that, at the point of deciding whether a disabled person is disabled -- we have 81 cities in Turkey -- they go to different hospitals and different reports come out to our disabled. On one hand, the obstacle situation is 40 percent on one side, 60 percent on one side, 80 percent on the other, and they're causing trouble, destroying our disabled once again. Our proposal for these issues is: let's set up an international hospital across Turkey that can measure the disability calibration of disabled people. Let them come to this hospital, our disableds, to identify the obstacle situation here, and we don't think our doctors, our attendings, and Turkey should cause such turmoil. That's the solution. These are all laws that will be made in Parliament as unity and unity. These aren't hard either, as long as the power wants it. As the opposition, we, the National Movement Party, are prepared to help them at every point of the disabled. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit01spe0037par0432	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger due to the failure of the Capitol TV.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0037par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the proposal of the nationalist Movement Party group, the following is Ismail Tamer, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0038par0004	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the parliamentary investigation of the National Movement Party to investigate the problems of our disabled citizens, and I salute you all. In 2002-2013, the Republic pointed to a short period of our history, but it refers to a time when we could revolutionize in the name of disability. This period has been passed for our country. In accordance with the relevant legislation on the application of the Law for the disabled 5378, a law on the disabled has been created. While there is no law on disabled persons until 2005, in 2005, it provides detailed rights and resources to set an example for disabled rights in the world, it is a fact that we re-organise legislation in a way that will eliminate them, even if there are flaws at the point where we are here today. What have we done for an unstoppable Turkey? One of the most important indicators of a country's development was the values it gives to its disabled ones. Yeah, that's exactly what we're saying. With the values you gave me prior to 2002, I'm going to briefly express the values we've given you now and leave it to the public. The regulations, made between 2002-2012 -- including the Law of Obstruction -- increased by between 200 per cent and 300 per cent per cent per month under the Law No.2022, which is linked to disabled persons who are unable to work or have no job. For the first time, it is covered by all the disabled care services that are in need of care. Any public road, sidewalks, pedestrians, open and green areas, sports spaces and so on, social, cultural, infrastructure areas and buildings have been made available to the disabled to remove obstacles to social life. It is mandatory that city municipalities and municipalities or municipal public transport services, which they offer or supervise, be made available in line with the use of disabled. This, in the last three years -- our friend has also stated -- a year late, delayed, two years -- I want to say that we've been following him, too. All disabled persons in need of special education have been provided with free access to private education and rehabilitation centres. The entire share of the employer's share of the insurance premiums for disabled persons employed in disabled and disabled workplaces is covered by the treasury, 50 per cent of the share of the employer's share of the insurance premiums for the disabled who are working more than a quota. The measures and incentives to develop disabled employment have been envisioned. The disabled person who works for him has been granted an optional early retirement and early retirement opportunity for mothers with children who are in need of care. The gross property tax is exempted from their homes, which do not exceed 200 square meters. The dwellings are made easy for physical arrangements for disabled persons. Criminal sanctions have been brought for discrimination practices against disabled persons. There are new studies on Turkish sign language. In addition to information, counselling, social and professional rights, they were established by the Metropolitan municipalities to consult and coordinate with disabled students within higher education institutions. Instead of separate examinations on the admissions of disabled persons to the state office, the Act 6111 is the basis of a central examination for the disabled, who will be appointed as a public official for the first time. Night watch practices for disabled officers have been eliminated. We are among the first countries to sign the United Nations contract on disability rights on 30/03/2007. Finally, the amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution in 2010 provided a constitutional level of security for the disabled, such as positive discrimination, in which measures to be taken against the principle of equality are not considered contrary to the principle of equality. Again, problems preventing accessibility have been eliminated with the Accessibility Strategy and the National Action Plan, which is in effect with the Supreme Planning Board's Decision 2010/35. A comprehensive, qualified, sustainable care insurance has been established for everyone in need of care through the Maintenance Strategy and Action Plan. The problems with voting for disabled persons have been eliminated and changes made in the Law on Voter Logs have been sent to the Ministry of Justice to do so. In 2012, measures were taken to strengthen international cooperation in the field of disability. As for employment, the issue of supporting the employment of the disabled for the past ten years has been among the priorities of our government's administration, and with new constitutional regulations, it has contributed substantially to increased disability employment with practices. In 2002, 5,777 people from the disabled quota were only employed, while in 2011 the number rose to 20,829. The draw systems have been brought in. A separate and centralized testing system for disabled persons has been created through changes in State Officers' Law 657 to ensure that they can compete with the theory system in a competitive environment. The examination was given to the staff, who were taken from their homes for free, and escorted. The number of disabled officers in 2002 exceeds 25,000 last year. All of this means how much we care about the disabled. Protected businesses. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy's General Directorate for Disabled and Older Services and the infrastructure of Turkey's Business Institution General Directorate have been brought in to provide jobs for the disabled and the Protected Work Project. The KOSGEB (KOSGEB) under the Enterance Minister's Obstetrics Programme has allowed the disabled to do their own work. These have been provided with corporate support, the term, machine, equipment support, business costs support -- staff net fees, business rent, electricity, water, heating, telecommunications, products services in the workplace, production-based machinery and equipment -- and fixed investment support. A home care allowance has been applied. Yes, dear friends, dear lawmakers, it's a very important matter to be able to take care of the house. Since 2005, we have actively maintained care and care support services in order to facilitate and improve living conditions for people who have a severe disability that they cannot maintain on their own. As of 2007, home care was delivered to 30,638 people, while in 2013 the number reached 408,165. A major problem with our citizens who are receiving home care fees has been resolved through this. Corporate care supports have been started. Our government is underlined by our ministry and by our government and by our government to promote care services, to modernise alternative services, to increase quality of service, to increase the welfare of disabled people, to meet the social and psychological needs of our disabled, to increase the accessibility of services. My dear friend before me has mentioned something about the reports of the disabled. That's right, and we know that the percentages of the disabled are missing. Our ministry, our government, is working closely on this. I'd like to point out from here that there's also work to be done with a new reporting system on the work of disabled persons about their daily lives. I'm simply saying that we're against the group proposal of the National Movement Party, that there's no party that values the disabled as much as we do, that thousands of cars, the ones that our party has built, are given campaigns every year, or they're not made with coveres. I say the disabled are in our hearts, I say they're important to us, I say they're important to our party. I give you all my love and respect, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0039par0033	Thank you. Celal Dinçer, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0040par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the disabled. I salute your high council. In this room today, where the problem of the disabled is discussed, there are very few ruling MPs, and it is sad for the disabled that our Minister, especially our Minister for Family and Social Policy, is not responsible. While the United Nations General Assembly declared the Year of the Handicapped in 1981, the problem with the disabled has reached the agenda of the world's countries. In this UN resolution, a coordination centre for the disabled has been requested in each country. In 1983, the National Co-ordination Board for the Protection of the Crippled was therefore a permanent board. The board continued its work until 1997, and ended its mission with the establishment of the head of the disabled administration in 1997. In 1982, the United Nations declared the ten-year period of 83 and 93 to be the Ten Years of the disabled for the full harmony and participation of the disabled. Within this decade, the world's action plan has been devised, and recommendations have been made, especially for standard rules for disabled persons, in order to establish standard rules for the equality of opportunity. In our country, the Prime Minister's Office of the disabled was established in 1997, under the Code of Justice 571. On 22 November 2002, the Finnish Ministry of Emergency and Social Security was re-established as Prime Minister on 6 May 2003. The head of the disabled administration continued its work until 2011, and was linked to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2011 by the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy under Code 633. During that time, our disabled citizens have given the necessary importance of organization, creating many NGOs for that purpose. In our country, more than 50,000,000 foundations have been established by our disabled citizens or by these citizens in order to support them. This is a very positive development. It is also a positive development in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, where the word "equivocal" is removed from our laws and replaced by the word "equivocal." Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as it is known, in our country, about 12 per cent of the population, or nearly 9 million of our citizens, live as disabled. The disabled are remembered every year for the week celebrated in May. Throughout the week, the problems of the disabled are being raised, and a number of porters are being lectured by authorities, promises are being made, but their problems are not being solved. A person's disability should not be a problem for him to live, work, and succeed like other people. Therefore, it is not enough that disabled people should be taken into private protection measures alone; the important thing is that the disabled must be fused with their own communities by preparing their education opportunities, by making infrastructure arrangements to facilitate their lives, and by finally creating employment conditions, they must be able to actively join the economy. The only way to build a peaceful and secure country is to have our disabled citizens adapt to society immediately and become an integral part of society. I would like to present with you some of the requests and problems that our disabled citizens in our country have delivered to our side through their own or association, federation or confederations: A commission for monitoring disability rights should be established with the law, which monitors discrimination practices, lists and motivates authorities. A disabled merchant must be allowed to take advantage of the annual income reduction. At least two percent of those facilities -- such as buffets -- should be available without contract to disabled persons and associations or foundations that provide services to them. Due to the lack of public transportation services, special means of transportation for the disabled must be taken into account. In all areas of public service, arrangements for the benefit of the visual, speech, and deaf must be made. The increase in personal income measured in the monthly bonding of the disabled must be made to a minimum. The pensions of our retired disabled citizens still in nursing homes are being cut at large rates. The salary of a disabled pensioner who receives 850,000 liras has been reduced to 117 thousand liras these days. This is a very sad event for the disabled. This injustice must be dealt with. The benefit of treatment, medicine, and medical equipment should be exempted from disability. In order to maintain education, especially for the sake of mental disability, special educational institutions must not be properly supervised and allowed to abuse. There must be arrangements for the personal punishment of public officials responsible for public spaces that are not made available for the access of the disabled. In particular, it is necessary to have expert personnel in large hospitals to care for disabled citizens -- such as interpreters for the deaf. If I die, who will take care of the disabled? The anxiety must be removed from all disabled families. The necessary work must be done for the disabled regarding the European Social Condition and the European Union's acquisitor. The age of primary education is 14 in the newly released Special Education Services Regulation. However, disabled children are a late developmental feature. This age limit causes the loss of rights to the late-school disabled. The same regulation states that the mentally disabled will receive education until they are seventeen years old. I mean, our government won't be able to provide this service to those who are 18 years old and over mentally disabled. This statement violates the rights of disabled people. In the relevant clause of the regulation, the age of training given to disabled persons is limited to twenty-three, which violates disabled human rights. These negativitys must be removed and new regulations must be made. The new regulation, based on Law 2022, must be changed because it causes the loss of rights for disabled citizens. The home care allowance must be determined according to the level of disability by subtracting 2/3 of the minimum wage. The number of care institutions must be increased and restructured to provide quality service in European standards. Day care centres must be established and increased. Male disabled young people, although there are constant reports of disabled health board reports, are being called to the military and asked for reports again of persecution. For this exercise to be terminated, the work required by the Ministry of National Defense must be done. Since oral education is provided in deaf schools, visual, video, and such devices must be supported for sign language training for deaf persons. A sign language course should be mandatory in private education teachers' education schools, which should still be provided with sign language courses for tutors. The age of 0-6 must be ensured that pre-school education is also appropriate for deaf children. In private education rehabilitation centres, the hours of education support must be increased for disabled people who take language developmental courses. Finally, language and speech therapists must be forced to open a section of our education schools in order to grow them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's more problems, but we don't have time. I salute your high council again.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0041par0073	Thank you. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0042par0076	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, first of all, today is May 15th International Family Day. In 1994, the United Nations accepted this day as Family Day and is celebrated throughout the world. In Turkey, organizations related to Family Day have been launched in each of the 81 provinces, with the predictions and precision of our esteemed Minister, Fatma Şahin. It is being carried out due to Family Week. As a matter of fact, we are a great family today in Istanbul. Tomorrow, with seminars and picnic shows, we'll continue to spend this week in a way that points to the importance of the family. So the strong society says it's possible with the foundations of a strong family, and I want to start by celebrating this special day. Dear lawmakers, the group proposal of the MPHP is related to our disabled. First of all, I would like to point out that our imprisoned citizens have been condemned to houses. I would like to point out that I do not find the sentence very accurate. I'll also support him with the data I'm about to give him right now. First of all, there were serious gains in Turkey along with the 2005 Law for the disabled, including education and employment and social services and legal infrastructure. This law, which was established in 2005, existed in the number of countries in the world. Thus, it brought many gains to our disabled citizens. If you'd like to look at the training foot first. Here, in training, I'll just give you one number and then I'll move on to other details. It's only 17,000 of our 17,000 disabled citizens. I'm pointing out today's figure, and I'm stressing, it's over 260,000. So with private education schools, private education classes, rehabilitation centers, the number exceeded 260,000. Look, just this morning I was at an event co-organised by the Turkish Parliamentary Association and the Federation of Mental Malfunctions, and it was a panel on education again. I mean, there are things that are done, but we still have work to do on behalf of what's to be done, and again, under the roof of this Parliament, it was an organization that all of our representatives, all of our representatives from every political party, attended. Therefore, I say I care deeply about the point of education, and I stress in particular that there is a gain with the legal infrastructure of over 260,000 structures today. How? For example, being carrying those students to school was an important gain, and it's happening right now. The fact that those kids go there, just like the therapy of mothers, like psychotherapy, in that sense, this number and this number are very valuable. Again, he sentenced them to houses. There are employment figures from his sentence that reveal the unreality of this. What's that? Again, for the first time in Turkey, there was an OMSS examination on employment. What's the OMSS? The Responsive Officer Selection Test was first conducted last year, so that over 10,000 disabled brothers and sisters were employed, brought to work. And today it's called... you know, in the past weeks, we've made a legal arrangement, what replaces the word "sorry, rotten, crippled"? He's taking the words. From now on, we will continue the examinations on employment, and instead of the OMSS, the EMSS, or the disabled officer's exam. Now, again, when we look at the numbers on employment, we see that it goes up five times. So we can see that the 5,000 is going up to 25,000. It's not just in public, but I want to point out the height of that figure, not just in the public sector, but also in the private sector. There's a three-fold increase in the increase in the population, but there's another three-fold increase in the population, and there's another three-fold increase in COSGEB, the ISKUR studies. Look, we care a lot about IKUR, because there's a structure that prioritizes women, young people and disabled people, which I think is also a fact that the employment rate here has been reduced by five times more jobs than the reason that they've been sentenced to houses. My other title is about education, health and social services after employment. Why do we care about him? If there's peace in the house, there's peace in society. It's very important to their disabled families. He may not be able to go to education, he may not be able to join the labor force, because he needs care. Here's where the state shows its beautiful face, along with the legal arrangements provided by our government, we see that today the home care rate was over 405,000 years old. So she needs a mother, needs care, can't get a job, can't get a job, can't get a job, can't get a job, can't get an education, so what? And if he needs care, then this is where we see these turnouts increase. If we look at each family by 3 or 5, we are talking about the existence of legal arrangements that directly concern about 3 or 4 million people, since the disability rate exceeds 500,000. Again, I say that the sentence of social services, which is condemned and in need of care, is certainly not deserved, and instead, new arrangements are being carried out. As for the legal regulations, they provided gains in education, education, and social services for the disabled Law of 2005, the Responsibility Act of 2005. We see that they are part of the constitutional arrangement for the disabled, as well as for the disabled. What's that? This legal arrangement includes both our women and our children, our elderly, the families of martyrs, and the relatives of the veterans, including our disabled, includes positive discrimination. What does that mean? So if we're going to make a legal arrangement for a disabled brother, a citizen, or a municipality is going to take a step towards that, it's going to be a positive discrimination, a positive example, and it's going to eliminate the right to appeal to other citizens. This legal arrangement is important. Then, a mother with a disabled child can retire five years early. Again, in the new laws, with legal incentives, we can see that our disabled family, children, or children, who have their own disability, can be a priority for employment gain, as well as for the ISKUR, both in COSGEBs and other studies. In fact, the bottom line is, I care about the dynamics of the local governments in those sentences. Two days ago, I was with the Vineyards in order to overcome the reachable barriers. We visited the Palace of the disabled on occasion. I advise you to see it. It's a great four-story, full-fledged, perfect-service structure from the pools for therapy to the fungi breeding of children, from the disabled upstairs in the textile workshop to the music-schooled again. Thus, there are many positive examples of what can be done by a municipality if it desires and offers opportunities, if it prioritizes what can be done for the disabled, such as the one I just gave you. Bottom line is, I'm saying the real obstacle to disabled people isn't the favorite. The real obstacle isn't the sound, it's not the physics, it's the consciences. The important thing is to remove the obstacle to the consciences, which I respectfully salute the General Assembly by saying that I voted against these ideas to the MHP group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0043par0090	Yes, thank you. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0044par0092	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit02spe0043par0093	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of the National Movement Party Group to vote on the 19th amendment of the Civil Code was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... the decision is enough, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Wednesday (15/5/2013), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 15/05/2013, Hatay MP Refik Eryılmaz and 20 MPs were given the Parliamentary Research Council (910 rows), which was given by the Turkish Parliament on 15/05/2013, to determine whether there is border security and the necessary measures to determine whether there is border security. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in Wednesday's 15/5/2013 jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. Refik Eryılmaz, Hatay MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0045par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party group proposal. I hereby salute the House with respect. First of all, I condemn and curse those who have committed the terrible massacre we had in Reyhan. I wish God's mercy to our lost citizens, my condolences to their relatives, and an urgent cure to our wounded. I was in the area when it happened, and shortly after the explosion, I went to the scene. The scene I saw in Reyhan was creepy. Burnt bodies were thrown around, buildings were destroyed, vehicles shattered, and deafening laments; the ugly face of terror was completely exposed. What I saw was no different from what happened in Baghdad, Afghanistan, Damascus, Pakistan, Gaza during the terrorist attacks. Hatay is a city of peace and brotherhood. This terrorist attack is an attack on the unity and unity of the region, the peace and brotherhood. Those who carried out this attack aim to disturb the peace of our province and drag our country into the Middle East swamp. The people of Hatay have lived in brotherhood, unity and unity in this beautiful land, and will live in this way. No one's power will be enough to sever these strong ties between our people and create a brotherly quarrel. The people of Hatay are a conscious and discreet people who have always favoured peace. Despite all economic and social problems in our region over the past two years, he has never lost his common sense. As a whole, the people of Hatay demonstrated their reaction to this attack and felt the pain of our people from Reyhan in the deepest way and showed the best example of solidarity. I give thanks, respect, and love to the people of Hatay for this stance. The Reyhanite has been subjected to the most violent terrorist attack in our republic's history. On this bitter day, Reyhan would have wanted to see the Prime Minister with him, but he chose to go to Obama. History will surely write that down. The Reyhan incident is a result of the wrong Syrian policy that the government has followed for over two years, and the political government is responsible for this incident. In fact, it is the government's Syrian policy that exploded in Reyhan. As a result of the wrong foreign policy followed by the government, the government has lost initiative in border areas and has been taken over by aggressive armed groups. Dear MPs, as Republican People's Party, we, along with the beginning of the events in Syria, have repeatedly warned the government and stated that the following policy could lead to chaos. We wanted the necessary measures taken quickly, we said we were against the war, we wanted no one to die, and therefore, we wanted the wrong foreign policy to be abandoned immediately. However, the government chose to serve the great Middle Eastern policy of imperial forces. The people of Reyhan, the people of Hatay, the people of Kilis, the people of Gaziantep, the people of Urbana want to live in peace and security. He wants to send his children to school safely. He wants to work, bring bread home. He doesn't want to live in the shadow of bombs and guns. The government must immediately consider the demands and longings of the people of the region and take the necessary precautions. There is persecution in Syria, there is dictatorship. It is not the will of the Syrian people to send militants from forty countries to fight with money and weapons in their pocket. That's what you do, it's called supporting terrorism. Terror has no religion, language, race, sect; terror is terror, it must be condemned and damned from wherever and wherever it comes from. My terrorist is good. His understanding is never acceptable. If we are against terrorism, as we feel and react when there is a terrorist attack in our country, we need to feel the same sadness in Damascus, in Aleppo, in Baghdad, in Gaza, in Tel Aviv, in New York, and in other cities of the world. Dear lawmakers, we are not in favour of radical fundamentalist armed groups or Syrian administration. We stand beside the people of Syria, oppressed, surrounded, bombed, their children killed, starved, their women raped, their cities, their homes, their factories burned and looted. We stand with the oppressed Syrian people who have been robbed of the future, who have resisted the anti-emperical attack and who have resisted the invasion. The government operates a purely religious foreign policy. A foreign policy built on religion is doomed to bankruptcy and is bankrupt. That's why we've become an enemy country with all the neighbors. You said we would take freedom and democracy to Syria, but you brought nothing but blood, tears, death, and destruction to Syria. Dear lawmakers, look, I'd like to share with you some of the events that have been happening on our borders over the last year. On July 17, 2012: Syrian residents in the city of the container built in the Pioneer Border Gate housing facilities of the Church. He attacked the police and administrative buildings, set fire to the containers; the windows of the administrative buildings were broken, and four police officers were injured in the incidents. Dated June 22, 2012: Our expedition from Malatya was shot down in southwestern Hatay, and two of our pilots were killed. July 20, 2012: Syria's armed terrorist attack on the Babel Air Border Gate to Turkey has been launched. Armed groups that attacked the border gate burned and looted Turkish trucks waiting for customs at the customs gate. Date 3 October 2012: 1 mother and 4 children were killed and 2 others were injured in a shell shell that fell from Akçakale district of Şanlıurfa, where it came from. February 11, 2013: Big explosion at Cilvebözü Border Gate; 4 of them Turkish citizens; 13 of them Syrian; 17 people lost their lives in total. They're trying to close the case. The date is February 13, 2013: Security units have identified 11 homes produced by explosives in Gaziantep and Hatay. Over 300kg of TNT was seized in Belen district of Hatay. On April 2, 2013: When more than 100 Syrian members of the Free Syrian Army were not allowed to enter the Akchakale Border Gate, they attacked customs buildings, randomly opened fire, martyred one of our police officers, Farhat Avcı, four of our soldiers, 11 of our citizens. Date 22 April 2013: Two Christian clergy from the Orthodox church of Hatay, Adana and Mersin, central Syria, Damascus, were kidnapped by radical, fundamentalist armed groups in Syria, whose drivers were killed and are still not heard from. On April 30, 2013: In Hatay, a threatening letter was left in the house of Sheikh Ali Yeral. The perpetrators who wanted to create a climate of religious tension and conflict are still at large. It was May 8, 2013: The people went out on the street after claiming that the Turkish flag had been burned by Syrian dissidents. Locals and Syrian refugees faced each other. As a result of these incidents, the vehicles were burned down, the police station, the city hall were raided by the public. He was brought back from the brink of a great disaster. And the date was May 11, 2013: a bomb-loaded terrorist attack was carried out in front of municipality and PTT buildings in Reyhanlı district. As a result of the explosion, 51 of our citizens were killed and hundreds of our citizens were injured. Dear lawmakers, the wrong foreign policy that has been followed has also caused major problems in our border counties. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, 800... Well, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0046par0044	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0047par0047	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. As you know, on Saturday (May 11th), around 13.30 p.m., we were faced with a great violence, an attack in the Reyhanlı district of our Hatay, which overwhelmed all of us deeply and hurt us all. As of today, 52 of our people have lost their lives. We believe that these innocent people, these innocent people, have been the target of this vicious attack, and, God willing, they've been drinking the testimony. Nearly 100 of our people have been injured, and 18 or 19 of them are still heavy, while others have been treated standing up, while others are still being treated in the hospital. As soon as we, Hatay MPs, heard of the incident, we immediately arrived at the scene -- our friends in Hatay. Sure, it's an apocalypse. We've been facing an unprecedented incident since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, dust and dust. The Turkish nation, my Hatay people, my Reyhan countrymen never deserved such violence. We perceive it as a blow to our nation's unity, to its elbow. We strongly condemn this brutality. Today, in the history of our great nation, our great nation with thousands of years of history -- of course, there may have been many similar events in the past, but for the first time in the history of the Republic, such an attack was carried out. Maybe it won't be the first, maybe it won't be the last, and there'll be more. The Republic of Turkey is a powerful state, this nation is a powerful nation with a long history. Of course, our people have entered the race in a brutal, violent way, in the form of a social integrity to heal the wounds of our society and of our people, who have dealt with it in the first degree of violence, in the form of unity, attacking the region to bind the wounds of our people. Although our interior minister, Mr. Sadullah, and our Minister of Justice, especially our Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay, has been disturbed, immediately mobilising the resources of our entire state and our Minister of Justice, they have done everything in their power to ensure safety and health at the scene of the crime. Our governorship immediately arrived at the scene of the crime in half an hour, and within half an hour, all the units in the area, all the ambulances, the security forces, the reinforcements, were all in the area, my fellow citizens. Congressmans, of course there was a lot of screaming when we arrived in the area. On the one hand, we were busy with the wounded of our people, the hospitals, the funerals. In these circumstances, of course, we all have a common duty: the time, the time of unity; the time, the time of unity. Of course, in the face of such an event, it is extremely and terribly wrong to enter into any political expectations here at a time when national unity and unity are supposed to win. I personally strongly condemn that. Look, while we were there, busy with the wounded, busy with the funerals, unfortunately, we had an incident that we were very upset about. There were behaviors in the hospital district, in the area where it happened, that provoked our people. None of this was necessary. It should have been our common duty that day to heal that bleeding wound of our people, so it should have been. I, of course, thank our fellow MPs from opposition parties who came to the region, and thank our politicians. They gave them something in their own way, but now it's very important how they're perceived rather than what you're doing. For him, the words that came out of our mouths there, that could lead to a social conflict there, a false word that would come out of our mouths at the time of society's angst, without keeping the public's pulse good. Look, there are 50,000 inhabitants from Reyhan. 25,000 of our Syrian guests have arrived from Reyhan. Perhaps a third of our visiting Syrian people, a family of relatives to the people of Reyhan, we have no chance to tell them, "Why did you come here?" With his baby in his arms, he and his grandmother would have to be treated in a way worthy of the size of the state of the Republic of Turkey, where he and his grandmother had entered the borders of the Republic of Turkey, desperately. What have we done? We have helped asylum seekers there, our people in the camps, from their need for shelter, health care, education, and in every field, by mobilising the resources of our state, at the cost of sharing a bread. We've opened our homes to those outside the camps, and we've put them up as guests. This is what suits our hospitality, our friendship, our historical ties, our origins, our historical mission. Other than that, any form of behavior is extremely wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0048par0054	It's wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0047par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I once again hope that the incidents in our region will never happen again in our state of the Republic of Turkey, or even in the entire realm of humanity. My condolences to my fellow citizens of Reyhan, my fellow Hatays, the Turkish nation, and my condolences. Now, just now, my fellow citizens, our congressman, Refik Bey, mentioned that there was a cult instigation going on there. These are extraordinary wrongs, Mr. Lawmakers. There's no attitude like that. There is no treatment for religious, sectarian conflict; there is nothing there; there is only the dignity of our Turkish state, and there is a proper treatment for the hospitality of the Turkish nation. If we had not stretched our wings on our people from Syria, who had fled from the bomb, who had fled from the mereness there, had we not protected them, had we not opened our households to them, had we not treated them with our loving wings, would this be worthy of the glory of our state? What we're doing is extremely humane in a way that suits our historical mission. It's a humanitarian treatment that we do according to the reputation of the great Turkish state, but other than that, there's no other purpose, precious MPs. Yeah, there's no religious provocation there. It's not the Syrian people we're against, it's every person living in the Syrian people, breathing in our kin community, we have long-standing ties from history. What we are against today is the Assad regime. You don't fall for cruelty. We wish the tyranny of Assad's regime to end at once. Once the Assad regime is over, no human has left its warm home to another country, to another country, to another country... today, nearly a million of our people have left Syria, hundreds of thousands of people have drunk their testimony, slaughtered innocent children, and the massacre continues today. We'll all join hands, we'll all cooperate... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to maintain unity, to maintain unity, to uphold the glory of the Republic of Turkey's state, and say it's time for us to stick together for the day, I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0049par0061	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0050par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0049par0063	Here you are, Mr. Eryilmaz.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0050par0064	Mr. President, there's been a disturbance, and I want to fix it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0049par0065	What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0050par0066	Refik Eryılmaz spoke of an incitement to the sect. He said, "I didn't say that, I didn't say that, if you'll allow me to correct him...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0049par0067	Here's two minutes, I promise, for bullying. Please, let's not make a new mess.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0050par0071	Dear friends, I have stated that the purpose of this terrorist attack is to create a sectal conflict in the region and drag our country into the Middle East swamp. I didn't say anything about a cult shootout in the area. I say that the people of Hatay have lived in peace and brotherhood with Arab, Kurdish, Sunni, Christian, Armenian, and so far. Neither this attack nor any similar attack will be able to disrupt this brotherhood's atmosphere, this peace and tranquility. That was a misunderstanding. And I also want to say that our AKP MP friends have a sense of why we've taken asylum seekers from Syria, as if we're having a reaction like that. We, from Syria, of course these citizens who have fled the conflict, are in favor of being embraced, regardless of religion, religion, race, whatever they may be, but in international law, we say that they should be kept in tent cities, so as not to disrupt our social peace and peace. But today, 200,000 Syrians live in different cities of Turkey, without any record, uncontrollably in their districts, and therefore have a serious security weakness in our region today. We're trying to express these things to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0051par0076	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Celal Adan, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0052par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with all due respect. In the end, it's nothing against you. When Syria crashed our plane, the picture that came out burned all our hearts. Two of our pilots, the beautiful world's shining Anatolian children, were pulled out of the depth of a thousand metres of the sea. On that day, Prime Minister Erzurum was at a youth gathering at Erzurum, and he said, "I'm going to walk over me with beautiful poems from Akif. " We waited to see if we could account for this, but we forgot about our pilots. It's the government's will that's to be discussed, it's its will. The government has issued a statement. At any moment, we can intervene against the danger from Syria. The National Movement Party, which has always held the interests of the Turkish nation above all interests, has put its heart on its side. Now, my dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I ask God's mercy on our citizens who lost their lives in the treacherous and inhuman attack in Reyhanlı district last Saturday, and my condolences on their liver-burned relatives. Hopefully, our nation will never be the target of such a scoundrel again. Dear MPs, of course we will discuss the Reyhan attack. Turkey, unfortunately, is taking part in acts of terror such as it has never seen before, such as the Reyhan attack, and for the first time, in the face of such a terrible attack on our nation, a concept of secular, sloppy, reckless governance is being displayed. There is an attack on the land, over 50 of our citizens are dying, over 100 wounded. In such a case, the Prime Minister appeared before the public with a reckless attitude to prevent the solution process. He says and adds: "We must be patient. " I think all the public has seen with interest why the sensitive, emotional character of the Prime Minister, who welcomed such a great tragedy in such cold blood, did not appear. From the Prime Minister's reaction, or rather his lack of reaction, it seems the Prime Minister was already expecting such an attack. We're dealing with an interesting painting that can't reflect Reyhan violence on a single line on the facelines. It seems that Prime Minister Hatay, in Reyhanlı, sees our citizens here as pawns of his Syrian play on our borders. Dear friends, the Prime Minister's attitude, his attitude, has hurt our nation's conscience twice. The Prime Minister thinks he's going to take these people after him with the eunuch. Now he says in his weary cry: "Has he not sent soldiers to the Indian Peninsula for the oppressed?," he asks. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, that's where our army sent them. Well, why don't you send troops to the enemy country that shot our citizens within our borders? Don't use words from our Ottoman ancestors; no one will buy it, and no one will believe it. How many slaps is that? You roared about the Marmara ship; the last time, in a very low way, when you said compensation, you took on an anonymous apology. Iranians shoot, Iraqis shoot, everybody shoots. If you're so determined about Syrian policy, why don't you do it? The Prime Minister is not handling the Syrian issue as a national policy. The Prime Minister wants to play the ruling game in the Middle East. The more he plays, the worse he gets himself and the country. Playing for the Prime Minister in the Middle East is his fantasy. This game is costing the lives of dozens of innocent citizens in Reyhan. On the other hand, despite the fact that this attack was unstoppable, authorities' statements contain all sorts of impropriety. Five days have passed since the incident, and uncomplicated explanations have been repeated. Citizens of the Republic of Turkey now don't know who did this act, why they did it, who was behind it, because the government's censoring mind has taken on a whole sack of this by using the judiciary. There's a gag order. Why is there a gag order? There has been no healthy explanation. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, who have so far been involved in major wrongs with policies that have harmed Turkey, must immediately take care of themselves. First of all, any damage to our citizens who have been harmed by the attack in Reyhan must be paid. It is vital that attempts are made to ease their suffering somewhat. We expect it immediately from the government. Secondly, the government must immediately abandon this diseased, personalized Syrian policy. Turkey cannot be condemned for its ambitions within the agenda of the EC PARTY government. This is the reputation of the largest state in the region. The Prime Minister is going to America. We hope that he will make successful talks and receive the necessary support from Obama, which they rely on to dig Turkey out of that pit. But so far, from the stance of the American administration, we understand that the Prime Minister will receive a lot of advice from the U.S. administration. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister, for God's sake, he's very good at one thing: advertising, PR. He's very particular about doing his own advertising, and when he does that, he's almost out of it, out of the truth. We've been staring at it for days. On his journey to the United States, he tries to give the American continent a vision as if he were going to conquer it. But none of this is real. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is going to ask America to rescue me from this Syrian pit where I fell. The Prime Minister still hasn't learned the character of foreign policy. He certainly finds a way to manipulate every foreign policy issue into domestic policy, but it's doing a lot of damage to Turkey. Turkey today has no diplomatic language of its own. The Prime Minister is unpredictable in what he says, what he does, what his mood is, what his attitude is. Our diplomats read every prayer they know, anxiously worrying about the Prime Minister's failure on every floor. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you another issue because there's an expression called "resolving the solution," "blocking the solution." The process of betrayal, called the solution, continues rapidly. All the things we've already feared and shared with our people, unfortunately, are happening. The images that come out are severe, shameful. It has become clear that we are no longer a constitutional state by this government. Turkey, today, in the hands of this government, is not even a state of law. This is a picture of the process Turkey is following today, like this ominous fate movie: the separatist PKK, which has bled people for 30 years, which has fired bullets at all of our national and spiritual values, is supposedly leaving the country waving weapons at the Turkish nation. Now, it's an air raiding PKK organization in the middle. There are no constitutional institutions, no police, no soldiers, no courts, no prosecutors, nothing that makes Turkey a state of law. It's like he's been cut off, everyone's been inside. The Chief of General Staff has also made a statement: there is no entry, no entry, and look at the situation in which you have brought down the General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces. I'd like to put that in a note. I'll share something else with you. Because of the process of this solution, this government will fall, a new government will come, and by the will of God, it will really bring justice to justice. May God not give Turkey an unfair government. When this government comes, when justice comes, the leaders of the Justice and Development Party, the ministers...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0053par0093	We saw it when you came in.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0054par0094	You don't know anything about that. You do other things.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0053par0095	We saw you come in.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0054par0096	Don't talk, mind your own business.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0055par0097	...the Prime Minister, I assure you, will spend the rest of his life in prison. There has never been a period of Turkish history when so many crimes were committed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Shot a soldier, shot a cop...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0056par0100	You're talking nonsense, it's empty, it's empty!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0057par0101	You're empty, you!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0058par0102	You're talking nonsense, you're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0057par0103	Look at you!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0058par0104	Look at you!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0059par0105	You can't cross the border if you're full of it! For once, be decent, be quiet!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0057par0106	Every time you come out, it's like you're coming out of your torn pants!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0058par0107	Shame on you, isn't it? Doesn't he do the same thing every time?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0059par0108	Guys, wait a minute, I have something to say.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0060par0109	Thank you, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0059par0110	Who do you say that to when you say, "Hide your weapon, come out"? You're telling the cop who shot the guy, the guy who shot the guy. Isn't that a crime? You're talking shamelessly! You're talking shamelessly!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0061par0111	Don't insult me.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0059par0112	Don't move your hands, I'll let you know your manners!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0061par0113	You don't.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0059par0114	Disrespectful! Let's go! Go! You're rude!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0062par0115	Yilmaz, you've said too much, Yilmaz!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0063par0116	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0064par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0063par0118	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0065par0119	JaIal is not the man to talk to. He's his usual self.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0063par0120	Wait a second... What are you saying, Mr. Ünal, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0066par0122	Mr. Speaker used unpleasant statements about our President of the Group during his speech.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0063par0123	What did he say, he used an unpleasant statement?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0066par0124	Mr. President, you've heard the speech, and I would expect you to invite the speaker to speak cleanly about the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0067par0125	What did I say wrong? What did I say?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0063par0126	Yes, sir, when I invited him, Mr. Group Vice President was involved in his earlier conversations.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0066par0127	If you'll excuse me, I'd like a word from 69.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0063par0128	Here, two minutes, I promise. You will repeat what is said here, Mr. Ünal. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0068par0134	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we signed a declaration here the other day. The deputy leaders of the four political parties signed a declaration here.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0069par0135	But tell me why.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0068par0136	They made a common promise to use a clean, decent, respectful, virtuous language. About Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, Mr. State Bahçeli, to use this nation's sovereignty, to use the vote through its representatives, we have stated that each speaker must pay attention to what he says at each time as an AK PARTI. If you are talking about the president of a party that has received 50 per cent of the vote, first of all, political responsibility requires that you pay attention to your statements by political ethics. When you talk about the president of a political party with 50% votes, you speak more carefully because of your respect for that 50 percent. If your speech feeds on hate and the way you say it feeds on it, if you're talking like that because it likes your style, it's irresponsible, first of all. And let's make one thing clear, please.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0070par0138	There's a lot of guys out there from that cut, so tell them first! There's a lot of men there, a lot of people in your part of the cut. Don't mess with my cut!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0068par0139	Look, my son used the expression from there, the speaker, you just used an expression that I can't talk about right now. You have a group of vice presidents here. I'm Deputy Director of the Group; I silenced the speaker and came up here.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0070par0140	Don't fuck with us! Tell your cut first!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0068par0141	Look, there's Mr. Mehmet. Please, Mr. Mehmet will answer if he has to, but first be polite.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0071par0142	You do it with kindness.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0070par0143	I invite you to be kind. You can't talk to a country boy! Tell them first! We feed on hate!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0068par0144	We leave these statements to the people's discretion because it is beyond my moral ability to respond to the statements used here.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0070par0146	If anyone's fed on hate, they're in your group!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0072par0147	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0070par0148	What's it to you?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0073par0149	You do the crossword. Do the crossword, the crossword.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0072par0150	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0073par0151	You do puzzles, puzzles.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0074par0152	You shut up! You sit down!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0075par0153	Yeah, how's that working out for you guys?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0076par0154	Does it suit you, Ahmet? Does it suit you?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0074par0155	He blames the country cut! What a slander! ▪ The rich feed on hate. ▪ He can't say!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0077par0156	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. Ünal, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0078par0158	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0077par0160	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has made a statement against the group's proposal...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0078par0162	Mr. President, don't make any noise about the insults there, don't react to the ugly statements about the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0079par0163	You can't say you're feeding on hate.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0078par0164	You're going to question a member of parliament who's reacting because there's an unpleasant statement about the Prime Minister, and that's going to be normal?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0079par0165	You can't say that he feeds on hate. We don't feed on hate. You can't say that the history of the reactionary movement feeds on hate. You can't say that!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0078par0166	The history of the country's actions does not feed on hate, but you're making Mustafa Pehlivanoglu suffer!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0080par0167	Come on, he's out of your league!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0081par0168	They're out of your league.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0080par0169	They're out of your league, Mayor. Let them out. They're out of your league.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0082par0170	It's out of your league, you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0083par0171	Mr. President, the Deputy Director of the Group has voiced that by putting morality first, we're using immoral statements.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0084par0173	Just a minute, Mr. Lawmakers... What do you want to say? What'd he pick on you for?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0083par0175	He said that I used some unethical phrases, and I want to explain it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0084par0176	Mr. Adan, I promise you two minutes, but please don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0085par0177	Mr. President is threatening the government and the ministers. I want word on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0083par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0086par0180	Mr. President, I didn't pick on the speaker, I didn't say anything about teasing.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0083par0181	Mr. Mahir, will you calm down?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0087par0182	Mr. Ünal wanted to talk about bullying, why did he pick on you? I asked him.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0086par0183	What right do you have to go there?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0087par0184	Sir, if you accept him as an interrogation, I've questioned Mr. Adan. Besides, I'm not interrogating anyone here. Please...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0088par0185	Wait a minute, guys... Mr. Mahir, wait a minute... First of all, we have to underline the fact that I've always come from a tradition that deals with the basic values of this state, but there are cases in Turkey that burn our hearts. What I'm saying is that in the face of this incident, in the face of this incident, when Syria is being targeted on one side, whether it's the Prime Minister or the President, no matter who he is...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0089par0188	You're repeating the same thing!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0088par0189	What does using that expression have to do with immorality? This is where the Deputy Prime Minister lives. See how the Deputy Prime Minister explains the reports. There was nothing wrong with it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0090par0190	Take your statements from the records, from the transcripts, and read them. You don't know what you're saying then. Read from the transcripts, please, the statements you used.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0088par0191	A 50% vote does not give you the right to wrong this nation; it does not give you the right to do so.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0091par0192	These people have seen you, too.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0088par0193	This issue is a national issue, a matter that concerns the Turkish state. I don't respect a Prime Minister who says, "Hide guns and get out."
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0092par0195	I don't respect you either.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0088par0196	Who the fuck are you to respect me?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0093par0197	Thank you. Republican People's Party group proposal...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0094par0199	Mr. President, the speaker used his statement. Please, I want this testimony to be consensual and I want him to apologize.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0093par0200	Which statement, Mr. Ünal?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0094par0201	The speaker used the expression "Lan (Lan)," that's a statement that doesn't suit the Parliament.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0095par0202	Yilmaz Tunç said there was a lan, and he said there was a lan.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0094par0203	No one's ever used a statement like that here.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0096par0204	Mr. Adan, please compromise your sentence.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0095par0205	Yilmaz Bronze will also rise and apologize.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0097par0206	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0098par0207	Shame on you for your age!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0099par0208	You turn them on, and then you ask people for an apology. Don't provoke me. Sit tight.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0100par0209	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0101par0212	We do politics for the sake of God, for the unity of this country. [[From the AK PARTY rows, don't do it!]] I said it again here. Those who know our sensitivity to the values of this country know us. The word "Ulan" is a word that does not suit us, but I condemn that our basic sensitivity here is reduced to moral measures, and I condemn the Deputy President of the Group. What we're saying is that there's five of them, and there's six of them.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0102par0215	Apologize, I'm sorry!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0101par0216	We see them coming out, coming out of the mountains. Who's coming out, what's going on in Turkey, what are you doing in Turkey, we're not going to question it, we're not going to answer for it?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0102par0217	With that tone?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0103par0218	Go block it, go block it, turn it back.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0101par0219	We'll stop them.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0103par0220	Be it, be it, be it, turn it back, go up the mountain together.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0101par0221	A will that prides and prides the Turkish flag all over Turkey...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0103par0222	People brought it, people.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0104par0223	A man's ritual is a man's work.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0101par0224	...God willing, any honorable citizen in the National Movement Party will hear this voice, don't worry.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0105par0226	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0106par0231	Mr. President, the government has insulted our Prime Minister. I want word on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0105par0232	We will, sir. Here you go, Mr. Furry.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0107par0235	Mr. President, my dear friends, today, we will once again evaluate Turkey's Syrian foreign policy because of the attack here in Reyhan. We're the people's deputies, we're giving them this review, but we're doing it on behalf of these people, we're not taking over the people's right to criticism. The attack by police forces from the Ministry of Interior to students of Middle East Technical University who are using these criticisms today continues with gas bombs at Middle East Technical University with high water. From here, we say that we have adopted these criticisms of the Middle East Technical University students, whose representatives we are, their spokesmen, and we salute them from here. Of course, the government has decided that the Turkish Airways strike, which has arisen because of the wrongness of working politics, like foreign politics, will be carried out by the union, which advocates labour rights, and will surely succeed. Until we succeed, we are on the side of this strike, which has led to the discovery of the wrongness of working politics, such as foreign politics, defence politics, and so on, we are with the strike workers. Even if we can't fly to Istanbul or anywhere else, it's not a loss for us, as long as the workers win, then we all win. What we're dealing with today is the sum total of these inconsistencies. All the districts of Antioch are facing the same problem today. The government of Turkey is in favor of a war that is not directly linked to the interests of its citizens or the interests of Syrian citizens, and we live with the consequences. After the explosion last weekend, we visited the county and the city. We've listened to our people here, and we've seen with our very eyes what the government party's spokesman has been saying, in hospitality, as hospitality, as human beings, has actually become a disaster. I'll return to the attack itself, but when we carefully assess the reactions that have arisen after the attack, we can see that when you give consent to a district of 35,000 populations to the mass of refugees as much as the town's population, whether you want to or not, after this attack, there's bound to be severe tension among the residents in that district. When we heard the complaints, we witnessed two important things. The fact that there is no such thing as the security of the borders, that there is no control from the south to the north, that there is no control, that there is no control over all regional cities and towns, that there is still no control over them in refugee camps, that Turkey still doesn't accept refugees, that Turkey still doesn't give them status, that it doesn't give them an international status, but on the other hand, it inevitably leads to the melting of the border between Turkey and Syria, because those who fled the war in Syria, in this war, in this way, or in this way, in this way, in this way, in this way, in this way, the people who have been on the side, have been on the other side of the border. I don't want to be misunderstood, these people need all kinds of help, care, protection, all innocent until proven otherwise, all of them must be protected. But of course, you can't help the chaos that's going to be there when you've piled up a population the size of a town and don't add a public contribution to it. Therefore, the error of general politics is also reflected in refugee politics as a mistake. From the beginning -- not only in the General Assembly, but also in the commissions -- we have said this: Turkey has no interest in taking sides in Syria's civil war, nor in the interests of the peoples living in Syria. As you can see, the more actors, the more actors play in Syria, the bigger the conflict, the harder the conflict gets. It's becoming impossible for Syria to solve now. Moreover, when those who are involved in the conflict, those who are part of the conflict, the United States, Russia, declare their intention to seek a settlement between them, unarmed, peaceful, political, and parties based on reconciliation, and announce that they will conduct this call with a conference at the end of this month, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, the Prime Minister of Turkey, and the United States of America, if any military intervention is involved, we are prepared to provide support on land.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0108par0243	That's a rebuttal.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0107par0244	The Assad administration may be a government not accepted in terms of Syria, but is the other side of the conflict in Syria too acceptable? Who's to say that those who cut heads, shot people, tried to strangle them in their own power, because of their religious beliefs and beliefs, will be a force to stand next to us? From the beginning, we have said that Turkey can actually deal with the Syrian issue in this way: While our citizens in Turkey, in a completely arbitrary way, have to follow a policy that will remove the anxiety of the First World War, which is divided by the compromises of the imperial forces on some side of their homes, the ties of our fellow citizens on one side, the ties of ties to one another, Arabs, Nusairies, Sunnis, Sunnis, and Kurds on the other side of the country, it is directly taken on a different political basis. The result of all this, of course, is that the war has been carried into Turkey's borders. Besides, none of the allegations that this attack was connected to the Syrian government are clear. The alleged elements of Turkey's revolutionary movement, said to be at the end of its act, merged with Syria, and claimed that an attack was launched here, are not accepted by anyone here because their relatives, their relatives, were taken into custody a few days after the attack. Imagine an attack, this attack was carried out by relatives living there against other relatives. This conflict with these strange scenarios cannot be explained. What explains this conflict is that Turkey inevitably became a part of the war, which was carried out by its own foreign policy. In Syria, however, there is an example. A regime of multinational, multicultural, multi-digit, secular, democratic, women's rights and labourers began to form in Rojava, West Kurdistan. By imitating this, it is necessary to make this a model for Syria, to open the door with understanding, while this formation has been under Turkey's military and political threat since it was born. So what's the solution? Leading these gangs to power? Never and never will such a solution be accepted by the people of Turkey, neither by the people of Syria nor by the international democratic public. The immediate end to Turkey's foreign policy, freedom, democracy, secularism, to support the Syrian people in order to establish a Syrian people, to support the founding efforts of the Syrian people, to open the gates to the democratic and progressive forces of Syria in this respect, to help them find a cure, and to promote the international power they have gained to rebuild Syria. The Peace and Democracy Party favours the idea of Turkey's socialist and democratic forces; it wants to go with politics. Since Turkey's politics in Syria are all wrong, we may face the same attacks in the future. This has to stop as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0109par0251	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have a request for a statement due to bullying. Two minutes, I promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0110par0258	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, the talks here are more related to Hatay, to Reyhanlı, and our valued MP has just expressed them. So, as the first member of the cabinet to arrive at the scene, I watched all the developments closely there for two days, and we did all the most serious things that could be done on behalf of our government. So there's no government here, there's no need to be done, and so on and so forth, of course, it's sad. Four ministers, on that Sunday, each of us was in different parts of Turkey, and we all left our duties and went to Hatay, Reyhanlı.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0111par0260	You didn't come from Reyhan, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0110par0261	All of our deputies were there; the ambulance planes, everything in the state. I'd like to say that. Secondly, the main reason I took the word is that the speaker who just spoke on behalf of the National Movement Party, the prime minister and the ministers, all of them, will spend their lives in prison in the future. To be honest, I'm very surprised. I mean, it's not a place to make politics out of anger or spite or anything, it's a place to come and say ideas on this stand. This bench is very valuable. People who come here don't bully, people who come here say ideas.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0112par0264	I put on the Prime Minister's shirt, my holiday shirt, he says. Don't do this! What's happening to you? What's the matter with you, Bashir Atalay? Says the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0110par0265	Those words you're saying, those prison words, they're inadequacy, they're ineptitude. People won't give you that power, and you'll never do anything like that, just talk.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0113par0266	You're putting up a mortgage on people's games?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0110par0267	And here we return the tough words about Mr. Prime Minister, threatening the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey like that. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We have come to Turkey with the people's votes, so we make the government.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0113par0268	We filed a lawsuit, it's about you! Mr. Secretary, we've filed a lawsuit against you!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0110par0269	We're not in power here by bullying, I'll tell you that again.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0113par0270	We filed a lawsuit against you, filed a criminal complaint. You will answer to justice!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0110par0271	Our country's values, national values, Turkey's future is our problem. That's all we care about, that's our case.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0113par0274	We filed charges, we filed charges, crime!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0114par0275	You can't silence prosecutors by driving them to Antalya! You set up the KCK!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0115par0276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 15/5/2013 meeting on Wednesday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the 460-trial bill, which has been distributed, the agenda will be in the fourth order of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and 28, 453, 420, and 388 rows of legislation found in this section, and the order of other tasks will be in accordance with that order; On Monday, May 20, 2013, outside of working weekdays. The meeting at 00, and the discussion of jobs that are on the agenda for special agendas, The number-one Gensoru proposal (11/27) which was published under pressure (9/2) and the main parliamentary inquiry (9/2) shall be referred to the first and second place on Monday (May 20, 2013), and the meeting of the Council of Ministers (9/2) on whether to open an investigation on the basis of Article 1 and 2 (11/27), and the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Constitution shall be completed on Monday (May 20/2) by the basis of Article 99; and the completion of talks on whether or not to be brought to the agenda (9/2) of the Constitution shall be carried out on Monday (9/2). Until the completion of talks on Wednesday, May 15, 2013, with Bill 460 in rows (today), Until Thursday, May 16, 2013, when the talks were completed until the Law Bill, number 450, were merged, Until the meeting of Tuesday, May 21, 2013, until the meeting of the Law Bill, number 230, was completed, Until the meeting of Wednesday (May 22nd 2013), until the meeting of the Law Bill No. 351, was completed, Until the meeting of Thursday (May 23, 2013) of the 386th Bill of Laws until the completion of the talks, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedule cannot be completed at 00 p.m., the day's schedule will continue until it's complete. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code of 460 rows, it is considered the basic law of 460 rows, and its sections are in the following form. It's recommended. S.O.S.I.D.S.S.S.D.S.S.D.S.S.D.S.D.S.D.D.S.D.S.D.S. [[1/771,2/395]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDES PART OF THE SCENE 1. Episode 1 to 8 Articles 8 2. CHAPTER 9 - 15th Article 7 Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0116par0312	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Our group proposal recommends that our Parliament step up some of the legislation and proposals this week and next week's work schedules and hours. It is also suggested that talks on our Prime Minister and on our Deputy Prime Minister's request for a full-blown and parliamentary investigation be held next week on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, one of the two bills we want to move forward today is the bill on SGK, 460 rows. This bill is 15 articles in content. Very important regulations are mostly related to the SGK, but there are also some changes in other laws. In particular, the peace of existence, the social security of foreign students in our country, the security of our citizens without social security under the protection laws again, the OSCE contract and some provisions for overtime in higher education institutions; it is a very important arrangement. Hopefully, we're offering to see each other until the end of today. Another one of the bills that we want to get in the front row is the Law Bill 453 rows for the establishment of a university in our five major provinces. We're offering to complete his interviews tomorrow. The negotiations will be over by the end. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0117par0318	Thank you. It is Mevlüt Dudu, Hatay MP who has asked to be spoken against by the Justice and Development Party group.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0118par0321	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I have made a pledge against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Dear lawmakers, again, again, once again, you're kidnapping the general question that we've given about the Prime Minister, given by our group, you're preventing the public from watching the generic talks, but I want you to know that this fear is of no use at all, and I condemn your position. Dear lawmakers, last Saturday, in our district of Reyhanlı, the worst terrorist attack in the history of the Republic has been carried out. According to official statements, the death toll is now 51. Not to mention the minor injuries, we've learned that at least 16 or 17 wounded give little hope, and that their condition gives no hope. I, for one, condemn and curse those who carried out this attack once again, and wish that our people would never face such an attack again. Dear lawmakers, I was one of the first to arrive in the area on the day of the incident, just an hour after the explosion. I'd like to share with you my initial findings: Unfortunately, when I arrived, I didn't see the state in Reyhan. Only a number of public buildings were protected, but there was no government where there were two explosions. The citizen was trying to get their bodies out of the wreckage with the help of three or five firefighters. And when we asked him about this claim, my governor-in-law of Reyhan agreed in front of the Republican People's Party delegation: "Yes, you're right, we haven't been very useful as a state during the day, we haven't been able to help the citizens. That was because the people reacted to us. Honorable lawmakers, who have not been able to find the Uludere killers for 18 months, have found the Reyhan assassins in half a day. But the killers you found don't believe in the people of Reyhan or the people of Hatay or the people of Turkey. You realize he doesn't believe it because your rental pens have started another smear campaign this time. What is it, sir? The people of Reyhan were Neonazi. The people of Reyhan killed the Syrians with stones after the incident. Dear lawmakers, these allegations have nothing to take seriously. The people of Reyhan are suffering a great deal, we're all living it, and no one has the right to mock our minds or our sufferings. My dear friends, the people who live in this land, and this state, throughout history, has welcomed victims, asylum seekers, refugees, and will continue to open up. There's nothing wrong with that, and there's nothing wrong with the people of Reyhan. The distress of the people of Reyhan and the people of Hatay is not with refugees, but with those who are trained in terror in those camps and who have been handed weapons and sent to Syria, and I want you to know that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We know what the situation is with refugees, asylum seekers. Did you know that in a mosque in Alexander, there were nearly 300 asylum seekers trying to find shelter, valued lawmakers? Do you know how miserable those people are, begging, having to steal from hunger -- of course, I mean the bad ones -- and even, unfortunately, they're forced into prostitution? You're trying to create perception over these people. Look, last week -- the day before this explosion -- I'd like to show you two photos from a wedding hall in the Altınobi, where refugees are sheltered -- and it's an official place, and there's records right now -- about this place. That's how you look at refugees. Look, valuable MPs, two people, naked, with diapers on their pants like hungry children in Africa, and take them out of the state hospital. Two Syrian refugees have been thrown out of the hospital. That's how you look at refugees. The second day, on the following day, a large group of friends from Ankara arrived, and we went back to Reyhanlı as a delegation and faced a barricade. The police didn't want us at the scene. We asked, "Why?" They said, "The madness is gathering." I would like to ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister if you would build these barricades for us, instead of setting up workers, workers, workers who want to celebrate May 1st in May, and murderers in ODTÜ, students in İstanbul, who are protesting the Reyhanlı incident today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And I think this incident was discussed on the wrong plane. It doesn't really matter who did it, who committed this vile, inhuman act of terrorism. Of course, it's important that the perpetrators are found, of course they'll be caught, brought to trial and punished, but what's important is that the cause of this incident, what circumstances, and who created these conditions; that's what needs to be discussed. Turkey has brought it to this point with the wrong Syrian policy in which the AKP has implemented power. We always said you made Hatay a terrorist nest, and you made Hatay an arsenal. In Reyhanlı and some other counties, we shared with the public the explosions during the construction of bombs. On one site in Belen, we said two separate times that explosives were caught at the same site as the Syrians, and we shared it with the public. In the presence of our President-General, the Governor of Hatay has agreed and has agreed that the necessary judicial investigation is being carried out. You know, sometimes you say, "Where did you know there would be an explosion?" I'm especially speaking to the MPs of the ruling party: If you go to Reyhan, if your heart is strong enough, but if you can find the courage to walk away without an army of bodyguards like us, like my President General, then go to your own place. The children from Reyhan say...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0119par0337	Four ministers were there.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0118par0338	Ten-year-olds say, "We knew this explosion was going to happen." You're the only one who didn't know. As if you were blind and deaf, you were ignorant of the coming of this calamity. Four ministers were there.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0119par0340	Four ministers were there.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0118par0341	Four ministers have landed at the airport and...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0119par0342	Our MPs were there.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0118par0343	...Reyhan, rumor has it, after twelve o'clock at night, they come and go, but no one sees them, we learn from the press. I was there, I didn't see it, I didn't see the people of Reyhan, nobody saw it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0119par0344	Nothing happens if you close your eyes, you can't see.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0118par0345	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0120par0346	And we need power to go, power to go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0118par0347	I said there was no state, there was no AKP, as I just said. Look, I want to tell you that witnesses are still telling you today that the voices, the sounds of the explosion, the sounds of the people at the time of the explosion, the screams, the sounds of the people burning and being torn apart, are still ringing in our ears. I just want to say that I hope those people's voices will start ringing in the ears of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs as soon as possible. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0121par0352	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, Basin Coshkun is a Yalova MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0355	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favor of the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I salute the High Council. At the suggestion of our group, we propose that we discuss the bill on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act as a fundamental law. The motion to ask about our Prime Minister and our Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay's parliamentary inquiry motion is held Monday at 14 p.m. We propose that we meet at the session starting at 00. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our opposition MPs and opposition parties, unfortunately, have also brought the geneor to its feet and diluted it. I would like to make it clear that no one should attempt to test our Prime Minister's patience or sadness.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0123par0359	Wow, what a thing to say!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0360	Yeah, that's right. Look, we know exactly what we're doing, where we are, and what we need to do. We're making the ultimate effort to carry the trust and the power of attorney that our beloved nation has given us.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0124par0362	We'll show you on Monday how you got the country on its feet, Monday!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0363	We're comparing yesterday to today.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0124par0364	We gave him the gene. Don't be condescending, don't be condescending... you'll pay for it!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0365	We take risks if we have to. We never throw the ball to the crown. We don't talk about problems, we take risks if we have to.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0124par0366	If you have the power, give it to the TVs, not to be afraid, not to run away from TVs.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0367	We got 50 percent of the vote anyway. We're not sleeping together.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0124par0368	Let the people see, let everyone see.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0369	On the contrary, we work harder, more with our people.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0124par0370	Is your heart enough? You're missing out on everyone.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0371	In fact, we're doing what our people want, and we're going to keep doing it as long as our people want.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0124par0372	We're going to show you how you made them go after you, how you hid them.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0373	Despite our people, we're not doing anything and we're not doing anything. Of course, it will be a criticism of the opposition, but it will also have a suggestion, and it will have support when it comes to it, so that it can get support from the nation. You've always sold it, you've ruined it, you've destroyed it. Literature doesn't give bonuses anymore. What will those who oppose the 1st Strait Bridge now say to their children when the 3rd Strait Bridge is being built? However, whatever issues come to this great assembly, whatever bill and proposal is discussed, we face strong criticism from the opposition. If what the opposition had said were true, this country had already been sunk for ten years and the AK PARTY had already been wiped out.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0124par0375	Thanks to you, it went down, everything went down!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0122par0376	On the contrary -- listen -- we share each study with our nation first, and with the prayer and support we receive from the nation, we come out stronger than any election, and hopefully, we will continue to give more important services to our beloved nation. AK PARTY is a public party. History will write the actions of the EC PARTY, and generations after us will be grateful and grateful for those who do so. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yesterday was the IMF's farewell day -- maybe there are some who haven't -- our nation is having a holiday today, our nation is having a holiday. A new one is added to our country's economic achievements every day. With the support of our nation and the unity and unity and brotherhood of our religion and tradition, we will continue to continue the process of resolution despite everything. Hopefully, when we get rid of this plague of terror, as a country and nation, we'll reach the top in peace development and progress. Of course, it could be those who are uncomfortable with these developments. However, we would expect our opposition to support this important and historic process and at least give us more merciful, truth - based criticism or suggestions. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to tell you a little bit about our beautiful Yalova, the pearl of my constituency, and I'd like to change the subject. We continue to invest and serve quickly without ruining the natural beauty of our Yalova, whose 60 percent are green. Our Jalova (Jalova), ranked 13th in the order of socioeconomic development, has become a city of all aspects of attention. We bring equal services from economy to health, from justice, from public service to youth and sports, from environment to forest and transportation; from pear, from Chinarzik, from thermal, from Farmville to Altınova. We've taken significant steps towards the agricultural sector and we've taken some distance. We've given big support to the flowering and kiwi industry. A third of the total kiwi production in Turkey is produced in our beautiful Yalova. We have equipped our city with modern cold storage tanks, where all the kiwis produced in Turkey can be stored. We have contributed a great deal to the development of the city by giving the 1.541 demarcation land to the company of 42 of our florists. When it starts working at full capacity in this land, which will be a permanent investment of around $40m, there will be a revenue of 150m per year. With this first project in the area of ornaments plants, about 3,000 people will be able to get jobs and earn income, and new markets will be opened. The city of the flower, the green Yalova, gives life both within its borders and neighboring provinces. We're working harder to see our investments better, to assess our work. We are making the most of local, national and international and professional institutions and organizations. In this sense, in our province, we shared important meetings with our people, such as the Training Worker, Waterworker, Kiwi Worker, and the International-Clue Plant Congress. Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, our investment process continues with many projects that are the first for our education, health, transportation investments, youth, women and elderly in Turkey. The Gulf Bridge, one of the largest investments in our province and our region, has given our province a great deal of movement and mobility. I know it's a duty to express the gratitude of the people of Yalova to our Prime Minister and to our governments, who said, "Let's not stop, let's keep walking, let's keep walking, let's not get tired, let's keep walking, let's keep walking, let's keep walking." Dear MPs, of course, the incident at Hatay has made us all deeply upset, but no one - we can't get anywhere by taking these pains elsewhere or really considering the matter politically with our national enemies. So, come, the day is the day of unity, the day is the day of unity, and the more we share our common interests, our sufferings, and our troubles, the better we fulfill our national values, our commitments to our nation, and our debts, the more we respect each other. Our holy nation listens to everything that is spoken of from this stand and follows it in a delicate way, and its decision is made when it comes to its place. I salute all of you with these feelings. I also give our beloved nation, our nation, who listens to us on television, respect and love.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0125par0390	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0126par0394	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, we're reliving what we had at the beginning of every week. Imagine a General Assembly... that, I mean, I've had enough of repeating the same things over and over again, so I'm asking you to be lawful, but it's better to say it again, we have to meet a form. But one thing has come to pass, we've moved on to the history of Congress, we're a committee that can't set its own agenda in four hours, we're a Parliament.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0127par0396	If you bring in group advice every day...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0128par0397	Thanks to you...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0126par0398	Yeah, thanks to us, but you're in charge. If you don't come looking for a compromise, and you come here and react to the word of the opposition to this extent, and you react with this impatience, this anxiety... it's clear that you don't even consider it right to demand compromise. As a result, you have reached a Parliament that has not been able to set its own agenda in four hours, as the government in charge of running this country. That's the result, that's your reality, that's what you have to stop and think about. Dear lawmakers, of course, we say it every time, it's not the same until it's over. As a ruling group with the support of such a large nation, 326 MPs, you couldn't leave such a chore until the end, such as law, which is unbecoming of today's values, not even of universal law. You can see for yourself that you have no use for it until the end, but you have brought it again, and you have imposed it until the end. You're bringing something else. Our friend, Mr. Kubbat, didn't tell us the details here, but you'll be working on Monday, so keep your eyes open. Actually, it would have been nice if you'd run it on Sunday. What are you doing in Anatolia? Just sit here, the red seats... Dear friends, appreciation is yours, and our nation is watching you, and these matters that you bring to us have nothing to do with the public agenda. You bring delivery laws to the address, order deliverys to the address. You're bringing in college again. Let's set up colleges, but let's form a wholeness. Dear friends, you must patiently listen to the opposition's reaction on one matter, and you must understand that it has been a very bad event in Reyhan. Hatay's Reyhan accident was the most painful event in our history. As far as I'm concerned, for the sake of our government, there's been an incident we should be ashamed of. Someone attacked the state of the Republic of Turkey, which is now 51, but it's called close to 70, which we know will increase even more. There are only nine people I know, missing, unaccounted for. The man's child is missing, no; his daughter-in-law is missing, no. Body parts are coming out from under the wreckage. So there was an apocalypse in Reyhan, and it hurt our people there, but the point is, there was an attack on the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish nation, as if we were at war. Dear friends, now, we have no right to try to avoid this as an ordinary incident, especially as a ruling group. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you resent what is said here, but is there a greater tragedy than this, why haven't you declared mourning? Wouldn't it be nice if the Prime Minister postponed his trip to America? Couldn't he just get up and go all the way to Reyhan? Dear friends, if you don't make a national matter of suffering, if you don't share it with the nation, if you try to blame the opposition over the pain... what an unfortunate statement, Mr. Prime Minister, is the incident of those who want to provoke the solution process just an hour later. It is the case of those who are uncomfortable with Turkey's strengthening. Should they blame the opposition as collaborators who present the issue and criticize Turkey's policy on Syria? Is that correct? Is it useful, first of all? Dear friends, in Reyhan, there really is an apocalypse, apocalypse. Well, go on, see, our congressman friends are there, liveable, not bearable. Let's accuse, condemn, curse the terrorist organization with all the numbers we know, all the sizes and all the emotions we have. On the first day there as the National Movement Party, I'll tell you one more pain. The Republican People's Party's MPs are gone, so we're gone. The TVs are wired. Mr. Semih Yalçin, our vice president of our delegation, said: "O our people, we will not surrender to terror. We condemn this terrorist organization, so let's share the matter in silence, in silence, patiently. So as opposition, while we're presenting a policy of responsibility, I see it here, and I see it in statements, and I see it on TV, and you're blaming the opposition as a power. Dear friends, you need to feel the pain in your hearts, the shame in causing such pain. You've been in power for ten years. I tell you every time, the political man, the statesman, is about predicting the potential, predicting the future; if you can't predict the future, the future surrounds you, and it hurts you. If you don't take the necessary measures, if you don't take them in time, if you don't get up now and your Minister, we've taken this measure here, we'll heal the wounds of our citizens, we'll give compensation. And you're reacting to what's being said here. It's obviously an expression of being caught red-handed or not being able to do it, not being able to do it. We'll understand that. But I repeat, dear friends, you've been running Turkey for ten years, running this country by the votes of this nation, using all the resources of this state. Your job is to ensure the safety of our people, and if you can't, then you're not doing your duty. Your duty is to protect the sovereignty of this country. You say we're grown up, but someone dares attack Turkey. Then where's the size? They shouldn't even be able to get near our borders, but our borders are the inn. Frankly, the speaker of the Republican People's Party just said a lot of sad things; we don't say it, our hearts are burning. Look, I've been to Syria many times with Mr. President and with Mr. Prime Minister, as it is my duty to be President of the Friendship Group, and I've seen it with my own eyes. Believe me, in those days, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President were so well-respected by the Syrian people that if they were candidates, there would be no one to beat them, but I'm telling you the truth: now, in the presence of the Syrian people and the Syrian refugees who took refuge in Turkey, believe that you are not called charity prayers. Dear friends, I'm not saying this for criticism.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0129par0411	It's like that again. It's like that again.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0126par0412	It's like that again. It's not.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0130par0413	That's the way it is with the people.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0126par0414	Brother, you can't know it better than I do. Here are the MPs.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0131par0415	It's like that again.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0126par0416	You couldn't stop the blood. In Syria, people slaughter each other. However, the hope that you gave against the regime today is disappointing because we support the public. The asylum seekers have come, you're giving a bowl of soup, God bless you, and God bless our state, but the events that Mr Dudu has just said are true friends. I mean, it's not gonna be... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...has fallen into conditions, asylum seekers, and I'm trying to say that there's no value in saying politics here without predicting such a outcome. Good luck with your agenda.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0132par0420	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0126par0421	You'll be working until the end, and you'll be working on Monday, so good luck.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0132par0422	We're going to work, we've got Parliament to work for, brother.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0133par0423	We didn't come to bed, we came to work.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit03spe0134par0424	I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0134par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked number 3 in the 187 Business Health and Safety Development Framework Charter. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 28 rows. A request for word on the entire bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. (x) 28 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. INTERVIEW TO CONTINUE THE PRODUCTION OF 187 WORKING CONTINUES AND PRODUCTION OF SECURITY MADDE 1- (1) We were eligible to attend the International Study Organization's General Conference, which was adopted at the 95th session of the International Work Organization (May 31st) on 31st 2006. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Vocabulary? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on whether we are eligible to join the 187 Business Health and Safety Framework Charter: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Bayram Özçik Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. The 4th ranked Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and the draft of the Dair Law on Changes in Some Laws, and İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will begin negotiations with the Commission for Women's Opportunity Equality, Environment Commission, Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plans and Budget Commission reports. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 460 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after the negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to complete and transfer to its articles, the chapters will be discussed and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0135par0056	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Party of Actions on the generality of Law Bill 460 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. Again, we're dealing with a drug-based bill that has no subject and purpose integrity, which has no links as content, which regulates many legislations. Regarding the bill, regulatory impact analysis has not been conducted according to regulations on the Prep and Originals. Thus, the impact of the bill on budgets, social, economic and commercial life, environments and related parts is not known, and there is no assessment in this direction. The AKP government is acting on its understanding of the benefits-cost analysis of its arrangements for the bill. With this 15-point bill, seven laws have been changed in various ways. The first seven articles of the bill include changes in Social Insurance No. 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act. However, the arrangements that employees and pensioners had hoped for in Law 5510 were not included. Those who live in retirement seek their rights, asking for an arrangement that will ensure that their victims are compensated. Reports of a decrease in pension pensions between $178 and $726 per cent per year were reported in the draft, with a formula being developed for pensioners waiting for the age of SGK presidency, with the amount cut out from the monthly, with a 5 per cent pension for the remaining year, with about 500,000 citizens unable to retire because they failed to reach age. Mr. Secretary, why is it so difficult to give pensioners the hope of retirement, when they're looking forward to retirement? (x) 460 S. Numbered Basmaz is added to the tunnel. It brings burden to the economy. You backed down? Where are the studies that you say were done? Retirers should not be ignored. There's no reason why an injustice can't be dealt with, no rights earned. With that dignity, an arrangement must be made to address the victims of our elderly citizens in retirement. As all political parties in parliament, we can find a solution to this problem. The National Movement Party is ready to provide the support and contribution needed to resolve this problem. Another group of our citizens, who are seeking a solution to their problems, are expected to be arranged in Law 5510. According to Law 5510, employees who work as apprentices or interns are considered insured on the one hand and are considered to be the starting date of insurance, while those rights, on the other hand, are limited only to short-term insurance issues, causing inequality and so on. In the implementation of Law 5510, some of them may be in debt without labour or insurance, such as birth, military, monthly leave, doctorate and expertise, law enforcement internship. In addition, those who give birth after the start of a vocational high school internship or apprentice insurance are able to borrow and advance their pension if they want to. The principle of equality of the Constitution should also be given the right to borrow on an actual study and training period based on insurance and in order to ensure justice in the implementation of the practice, as well as on the start date of the insurance. This is important for both preventing the work of apprentices and internships from going to waste and the removal of the victimhood and providing income for the institution as well as incentives for vocational education. It is thought that the AKP government, which is insensitive to the cries of age and internship victims in retirement, should include secret witnesses, which are said to have no justification and many of them are Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), as well as General Health Insurance in this bill. This provision, which is part of the government's bill, has been disinherited from the commission over our objections. Honorable lawmakers, the AKP government is oppressing retired tradesmen and artists. As it is known, with a bag of laws issued earlier this year, after the pension was tied up, the social security premiums for people working under the BUG-KUR have been enabled to be structured. Those who want to restructure their debts must apply by the end of this month. However, with the arrangement, thousands of retired workers face a great deal of shock due to the outstanding debts. The SGC, which has not wanted to receive it for years, is now asking the citizen for large sums of money. Look, one of our taxi drivers says: "They find us in a traffic ticket in 15 days, but why are they informing us today of the practice of ten years ago? " Our citizens are trying to figure out how to repay these debts with their current pensions. We've been sentenced to retirement and work. The government's impounding our money, and we're barely making a living. Mr. Secretary, since the agency doesn't follow in time, at least don't charge interest for those savings. Look, with the 6th article of this bill, you give up the interest of unwarranted payments, leave, and even return the purchases, as a result of the examination of bills and supplemental documents from hospitals and pharmacies. Why? You have allies among them? You're taking interest out of these, but why are you putting interest in retired shopkeepers? Is this the justice of the AKP mentality? Why do you collapse into the temple of the tradesman and artist? A 15 per cent social security allowance is cut from the pension salary of the tradesman and artist who opened a business or continue to operate the current workplace while receiving a pension. The AKP government says you've retired, why haven't you closed your business? Or you're retired, how can you open a business, and then you'll give 15 percent of your pension. It is called either sit in coffee or work off the record. In exchange for a bonus, the SGK does not pay an increase in pension or then a total payment. No additional rights or services are available in return for the social security benefit from the pensioner's forced employment. Mr. Secretary, are you receiving tribute from the tradesman and artist under the name Social Security Support premium? As the National Movement Party, we would like to remove the application for pensioners and artists to pay social security benefits. The tradesman receives lower pensions than his employee, who works with him and pays his premiums. The government has arranged a so-called review to address the inequality between pensions, but especially the damage to BUG-KUR pensions has never been anticipated, has not been taken into account. Retired pensioners, who hope for an increase in pension due to all the promises and good news, are frustrated once again when they go to the bank to collect their salary, and understand how they were deceived by the AKP government. The pensioners are currently below the hunger limit set by various institutions and unions. The pensioner's salary has already been turned into a bird, with medical cuts called medical money, prescription money, medicine money, and participation. Also, why do you work for a pensioner? The government of the AKP, who owns a Labour Minister, who says to a Finance Minister, "The pensioners have a very high salary." He has no way of understanding the problems of the workers, the tradesman, the pensioner, and the employee. The pensioner is unable to live on his monthly salary, most of whom have fallen into debt and suffer severe hardship for living. The pensioners' pensions must be increased to the extent that they can earn their living, the premium cuts from their pension, and some pension participation in health care must be removed. However, the AKP government, on the contrary, raises the ceiling of additional fees for private hospitals. This increase is incompatible with the measure of compassion and conscience. With this arrangement, the bill for false policies is made public. The arrangement will eliminate the possibility of private hospital services for the majority of the insurance holders and pensioners, widows, and orphans, and will lead to piles in public hospitals. I call upon the AKP government to stand down. Dear lawmakers, there are many pressing problems with working life. The arrangements promised by the Prime Minister and ministers months ago, even years ago, have not been included in this bill, I'm afraid. The AKP government is torturing Muslims. Wasn't it Mr. Prime Minister who promised the contractors a staff position two years ago, especially those who worked for municipalities and municipal private administrations? Wasn't it Mr. Labour Minister who announced that there was a staff effort for the contractors and said that he was coming to the Council of Ministers in front of us months ago? Mr. Secretary, why aren't you bringing in the staff law? Workers and temporary workers who have graduated from higher education and work in offices are waiting for staff and workers who have been victimised in irrigation units. The AKP's government enjoys the practice of right, law and law, and oppression, which is incompatible with the law and the law. Those who try to survive underage pay are treated as stepchildren. Aren't you the ones who promised casts to victims of 4/C? Wasn't it Mr. Hayati Printer who said that family aid would be given to the people of 4/C? Mr. Secretary, why don't you bring the contractors, the 4/C victims, and the staff for the staff? How long are these employees going to wait? Wasn't it the Minister of Labor who said that work had been launched months ago for healing, saying that Tabheron workers were slaves? The AKP government did not bring a solution to this problem, but it further increased subcontractorization, which resembled the medieval mentality, into all areas of the public. The subcontractors are working as slaves, free of human working conditions, without job guarantees, without union, without permission and without overtime. Wasn't it the Prime Minister who said again, six years ago, that he would be sorry for the condition of the temporary and seasonal workers who couldn't make it to the staff, that he might be able to solve the problem of our fellow workers again? Tens of thousands of workers are laid off during certain periods of the year, despite the fact that the state is doing its original and continuous work. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to solve the problem of temporary and seasonal workers? Contractors employed in the government's primary and permanent service, 4/C (c) people, workers, subcontractors, temporary and seasonal workers must be assigned to the staff, not discriminated against among employees. Isn't it Mr. Bulent Arinc, who has been promising to improve the mayor's salary for years, that if I retire, I can probably run for mayor in a village? A week before the 2007 elections, on a television channel on July 15, 2007, was it not Mr. Prime Minister who said that police rights were to be placed at the first table after the election? Again, wasn't it Mr. Prime Minister who recently promised new opportunities for our fellow martyrs and veterans, for our seniors and disabled over 65 years, for increased wages, employment, interest-free housing loans, water and electricity fees, free use of public transport services, for free travel on railways and sea roads, for the help of needy families in the military? When are you going to do all this? The prime minister and ministers are dealing with hope, making constant promises, but promises are not being fulfilled. Workers, pensioners, who are hoped for news of good news being delivered to the media, are constantly disappointed. The AKP government, which has constantly made promises to employees, pensioners, families of martyrs, veterans, disabled people, elderly people, is on the agenda of what: this bill brings a special and covert pardon for black money. An arrangement is made to forgive criminals and criminals. He pledges that he will not ask those who report or declare their existence abroad, whether he will investigate the origin of the entity, whether his tax will be paid or not. In fact, assurances also encourage tax evasion beyond the purpose of not pursuing taxes. The AKP government is clearing assets from criminal, illegitimate, even acts against humanity and Turkey. From time to time, some AKP members, especially Prime Minister, react to the non-alarm parties. If they're meant to be laundered, they're right, they're cleared of all kinds. During the AKP period, black money is laundered, traffickers are laundered, crime and criminals are laundered, tax evasions are cleared, abusers are cleared, corruptors are laundered, privatisations are laundered, terrorists are laundered, baby killers are laundered, PKK is laundered. The arrangements that have been made so far and this bill that we've discussed point to this. It's strange that these actions have always been carried out using magical words such as "retribution peace," "existence peace," "peace." Dear lawmakers, the unemployment problem in our country has become chronic. Today, TÜİK announced the statistics of labour force for February 2013. According to this, the official unemployment rate is 10.5 per cent and the official number of unemployed is 2,84,000. The unemployment rate has risen to 12.9 per cent and the youth population to 20.4 per cent. With these official figures present, there is no unemployment in Turkey. The AKP government, which owns a Labour Minister, cannot be expected to resolve unemployment. Mr. Secretary, these are like the children of the AKP elite who can't say thanks to my father. The AKP ministers, who probably look around, think there's no lack of employment when they see people who own a company and conglomerate, who sail the ship, who sell corn, who sell gold and diamonds, who are media bosses, who run their houses, their in-laws, and their relatives, who run their business, like Aaron, come in ten years and run their business. The unemployment rate, 10.3 per cent in 2002, is 10.5 per cent according to the latest data. In 2002, those who were not included in the number of unemployed, who were ready to work, rose from 1 million to 20,000 people to 2 million 305,000 people in ten years. In addition, the number of people who had no hope of finding employment increased to 849 thousand in 2002, compared to the latest data. Some 12 times higher than those who had no hope of finding employment during the AKP period. The unemployed can't even declare that they are unemployed because they have lost hope of finding a job. Thus, the AKP government is understood by these developments, which will last forever for lack of employment. I wish the bill to be a blessing, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0136par0090	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP who wants to speak on the whole bill.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0137par0093	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have made a pledge on the Social Insurance Act with the number of 460 and the General Health Insurance Act and the draft of the Law to Change Some Laws. I salute you all again. This bill was announced to us last Tuesday that it would come and discuss with the Plan and Budget Commission, and it began to be discussed on Wednesday morning. So we started negotiations on the bill in a very short period of time, not even 24 hours after it was reported. We've collected the Plan and Budget Commission in the morning, and on the same day, we've received answers from other commissions, and I don't know when they've been interviewed, but I don't know when, so there hasn't been time in the Plan and Budget Commission for proper consideration, and there hasn't been enough time, unfortunately. Dear friends, this bill may be 15 articles on the application clause, but it's like this again, it's about at least nine laws. So, even though it looks like it's about Social Insurance and General Health Insurance, it's actually a mini-bag bill, which is about a lot of things. So it's not possible for us to meet on such short notice, because there are a lot of technical issues. Like I just said, it's about nine laws. So it wasn't enough, it wasn't enough. So we went back to a law factory. Turkey's Grand National Assembly works like a law factory all the time. In fact, with regulations -- I'm saying this all the time -- or with the minister's approval, for example, we rule out the issues to be held because there's a huge majority here, and we think it's often easy to get them out. Actually, that's not how the legislature should work. The legislature needs to be more prestigious, and it needs to take the time it needs to make the most qualified, beautiful laws about these laws. Look, a few months ago, we made a law on social security. Here... My dear friends, I don't like to talk in the General Assembly. We're listening to each other in the Plan and Budget Commission, we're looking at each other in the eye, we're telling each other things, we're trying to explain things; we feel like we're doing some sort of legislative work, or we're doing some sort of audit work, but unfortunately, the people here at the General Assembly don't listen.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0138par0098	But the Commissioner isn't looking at you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0139par0099	He's looking, but he's not facing.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0137par0100	And since Mr. Secretary is already behind us, since he's not in our line of sight, so are valuable bureaucrats, and so is the Deputy Commissioner, and we can't address them. The General Assembly, unfortunately, is doing other things. So, really, I don't like talking in the General Assembly very much, we're talking like we're looking at the wall, but on the other hand, I'm going to appeal to the people who watch us on TV, but at this hour, of course, it's closed, and we can't address the people who choose us -- our choice. That's what we did with social security again a few months ago. I told you, again, that the application that the SGK was working heavily on at the time, but was forced to find solutions, came mainly with materials like this today. Social Security brought in some unresolved, unresolved materials. However, the citizen, the insured, has very important problems. As Mr. Kalaycı had just said, there are those who hang out at age, there are social security premiums; we have brought the problems of a citizen, not of the insurance people, but of the institution to the agenda, and again, with this bag, with the law, the subcommittee was not established, it was not established, it was not established, and there was not a very detailed and comprehensive infrastructure. Again, don't be surprised if there's a social security bag bill within the next few months. Nevertheless, we have managed to correct some wrongs in the Commission. For example, there was an arrangement in the bill under the First Amendment Witness Protection Act, which should have been at least or should not have been at all, according to me, not in accordance with social security principles, not in any way a working-worker relationship, not in any way a natural victim. We've made sure that people under the Witness Protection Act are subject to general health insurance and Mr. Secretary's preliminary opinion. I thank him. Let's hope it never comes up. The other thing is, again, what we can do in the Commission is the Board of Health Services Prices. It was made up of seven, raised to nine. Two people attended representing private sector representatives and university hospitals. But what we failed to accomplish there was that instead of the Ministry, the Ministry is actually the appointment of representatives of the local, private hospitals or universities, or its own institutions, its foundations, its legal personalities, its professional institutions. Unfortunately, we couldn't prevent such a mistake. I'm hoping this thing we can't block out of the commission will get better here and better in the General Assembly. I hope it gets better, because it's a very obvious mistake. One important thing about the bill is that the insurance people are doubling their contribution if they apply for contracted private health care servers and private foundation hospitals. Look, this is a very important matter, a very important matter. As you know, medical expenses have increased greatly in recent years, dear friends. In recent years, there have been six times the increase in health spending, especially in comparisons between 2002 and 2008. In particular, Mr. Akdağ's period has increased greatly, but the quality of treatment in the healthcare sector has not increased to the same degree, so the increase in treatment services has not been the same, not the same quality. Only a significant increase in hotel services has been achieved, quality has been provided, the same success in treatment services has not been achieved. Or we haven't had that kind of increase in our population, so why are their health spending increasing so much? There is a reason for this: There have been significant increases in the number of private hospitals especially during this period. Dear friends make health care presentations in Turkey mainly by the state, by the Ministry of Health, by the university hospitals, by which they provide health care. In fact, the recipient of health care is the SGK, which is a significant SGK, which means that the financier is the SGK. During this period, the Ministry of Health, particularly the Ministry of Labor or the SGC, were unable to make these arrangements properly, they were unable to coordinate, but they were always at odds, always troubled. The fact that they couldn't come together in particular, that there was a conflict between them -- maybe it didn't reflect on you, maybe it didn't reflect on the media -- that conflict between the two ministries, between the two institutions, that is, the service server and the service buyer, has caused a lot of increased spending and suffering. I hope these things will improve in this period, hopefully, but the solution isn't to double the payments in private hospitals or university hospitals where the insurance people go, as in this bill, but it's not to be doubled, it's not the solution. It's gonna take a permanent study to figure this out. He's based on work, his entire healthcare system, his insurance system, and it's only possible to get away with it. With patches like this, the system will only become more troubled, more troubled. This is so wrong. As a result, he's insured, paid his premium on principle. On top of that, the person who pays the premium is the person who should get health care. And then he goes and gives me an additional contribution. In addition, we're formalizing knife money -- look, my dear friends -- so there's no other explanation. I'm afraid we're making the money for the knife official in a sense. But I hope that the Ministry of Health and the SGK, the Ministry of Labor, will work with a good partner and solve these problems so they won't be able to face such problems again. Another important issue on the bill is these CED reports, the CED reports we call the Environmental Effect Evaluation. They were canceled several times by the Court -- the administrations had been prepared. The administration was very insistent, and under regulations he tried to set it up. But the D.A. has insisted the same way, and at the very moment, we're now making this issue a matter of law, which the State has cancelled, which is very justified. My dear friends, the environment is important, important to all of us, important to our future. At a time when major investments are on the agenda, with all this do-and-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do-do, do-do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, do-do, This is very, very wrong. Maybe that's the wrong thing to do in this bill, that's the basic issue. It's not supposed to happen, it needs to be fixed. I'd especially like to ask the General Assembly's sensitivity in this matter. About this -- you're not listening, but -- let me tell you a story. Maybe I'll get our friends' attention. This was the first astronauts to go to the moon when astronauts were given training in the United States, where they took them to a place called the Tuba Desert. It's an area where Indians live a little bit more dense, where they train. As astronauts were training, they met an Indian shepherd and his grandson. They're curious, they're starting to talk, but the old grandfather Indian doesn't speak English, he doesn't talk to astronauts, he talks through his grandson. When he found out that they were going to the moon, he said: "I have a message, do astronauts take it to the moon, do they deliver it to those who are there?" They were excited, too, immediately recorded. Say it, we'll take it, I promise. They told me to. The Indian said something in his native language, they filmed it. What did you say? His grandson said: "Watch out for these, they can take away your land." Now, our grandchildren will tell us that if we make such laws in the future, our ancestors have taken away our land, our environment, our air, our water. Yeah, it's more important than investments, believe me. We need to be sensitive about this. We all need to be sensitive. As the General Assembly, believe me, I can't bear to watch this matter this way without concern. It's very, very important. It's very, very wrong to even bring this up, and it's a shame on our part. My dear friends, I'm running out of time, and in the last five minutes, there's an X-large clause in this mini-bag bill, and I'll tell you about it, Article 13th. And this is what we know as tax peace, as we know it as -- tax peace in a sense, of course -- a pardon law, again. It's a clause about the transfer of assets abroad to Turkey, the transfer of foreign currency to Turkey in particular. The commission found no relevant ministers. Neither the Finance Minister nor the Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of the treasure, came and did not comment on the matter. We don't know how much abroad, as mentioned, the Turks have money. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Babacan made statements to the TVs, we read some of his statements in the papers, but unfortunately he stopped giving information to the commission or to come here. We don't know what money comes from abroad, but we have some information, I'll tell you. It's estimated at at least $140 billion, these are the long-term foreign debt of the private sector, but 53.5 billion is already bank loans, so these banks get union loans. So that leaves 85 billion. And some of them are real, real. So we're talking about a very small number. And as far as the sectors are concerned, we can predict the distinction. And I don't know if any of this is really going to come to Turkey -- I don't know if it's going to be expressed to us on the commission, but I don't know if it's going to be worth it, if it's going to be worth the extravagance, if it's going to be worth it. There's a problem with that. Dear friends, we have a financial problem in general. We've brought this up on occasion a few times before. Turkey's fiscal structure and financial architecture are in trouble. We're a country of constant foreign currency, economics. If the exchange doesn't come, we'll be able to go into crisis immediately. Crisiss in Turkey will happen if there is no exchange. We don't accept that there is a crisis in Turkey, whether it is unemployment or not investment or inflation, but if there is no exchange, then we're talking about an economic crisis. We've had this period in the world for the last ten or so years, with the most liquidity, the most resource. Turkey also receives plenty of liquids, exchanges. Of course, Turkey is paying the price very heavily. We're one of the countries that pays the most interest, and it still is. For him, foreign currency is coming to Turkey for high interest. Especially through banks. They buy banks, they add their own commissions, and they borrow private sectors and citizens. This period, the Treasury does not lend directly to the truth, especially through banks, through private, sectors, and through real people. Currently, the private sector's debt has increased greatly in the past period, the private sector, unfortunately, is in debt, in debt, in debt enough to ring the alarm bells. In fact, we recently went to England as the Plan and Budget Commission... and I think it was Ottaway, the President of the Foreign Commission. Even as head of the Foreign Relations Commission, how will England know about Turkey's economy? But one of his warnings was that, unfortunately, you're in a lot of debt, and your economy is getting worse. We do have an economy that owes a lot of money. Let me give you some numbers: our foreign debt, which was $130 billion in 2002, is now over $340 billion. 130 billion dollars of foreign debt reached $340 billion ten years later. We owe a lot of money. In addition, public debt rose from $64 billion to 103 billion. We're in a lot of debt, we're in a lot of trouble. Oh, you'll say: "Our public debt is in debt according to Japan, according to the U.S., according to other countries, according to the low rate of non-profits." But they have valuable money, we owe money as currency. They're always, for euros, dollars, Japanese new, internationally valued money, they can always handle their problems. Because consolidated money is not a problem for them, but it's a very important problem for us. Besides, my dear friends, there's no investment, no production, no employment in exchange for our debt. There's no point in us being in debt for this. You borrow money, you invest, you have facilities. We don't have an Etibank anymore, we don't have Alexander's Iron Steel, we don't have Erdemir, so we've made so many loans in this period, but we've never been able to get any jobs in return, we haven't been able to invest, we haven't been able to produce, so debt is dangerous. I mean, the numbers don't matter much either, but we're just consumed by debt. We only built tall buildings near Balgat, gave them to the government. No production, no investments in production. That's the problem, or you won't mind being in debt to a reasonable point. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to extend my regards to all of you to meet again in the matter.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0140par0118	Thank you. The entire bill is addressed to the Peace and Democracy Party Group by Demir Çelik, Mud MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0141par0121	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding Social Insurance Act 460 and General Health Insurance Act. I salute you with respect, with love. Before I begin my speech, I would like to express our sincere condolences to God's mercy, and to his grieving parents, and to the wounded, to the immediate healings. May 14th Pharmaceutical Day, I wish all our pharmacists good luck. Also, May 15th is also Kurdish Language Day. In that sense, I would like to express my wishes to congratulate you on the development of Kurdish language, as well as on a number of opportunities and opportunities for vital areas and public space. Mr. President, we're dealing with a new bill of law, more karma, pragmatist, some opportunistic relationships, a bag of laws. Yes, Parliament is responsible for carrying out legislation, for carrying out audit activities. In this sense, it is our duty to carry out the law enforcement activity, which is the primary task of meeting the needs of society. However, legislature must first be in the public's best interest, it must be consistent with historical development, it must also be in the capacity to meet social needs and to be brought to Parliament after a process of consuming their proposals, criticisms, and contributions, which, in that sense, would be affected by this law, by its shareholders, by its partners. It must have been the habit of the last few years, but the laws and legal proposals that serve to protect, to save, to save a part of the interests of a very ordinary and very few people who have not been consumed have lost their legitimacy. And because it's not legitimate, it continues to occupy our agenda on a subject that is constantly changing and needs to be changed. However, as with any law, what should be done in this proposal was to be brought here first, with the awareness of the duties of the state regarding social security and social policy, with a framework to address its social needs and problems, sharing it with social dynamics. Humanity was able to come together in cities for the purpose of housing, protection, and security when it first came out, but the new possibilities of growing, changing historical development, global opportunities, and with new possibilities, humans are too advanced to think of as a biological entity in the city, too capable. When it's not based on the political, spiritual, cultural well-being that they need to have, when we approach the problem with a perception that will serve the ruling headquarters in which we alone are in the city, we don't solve the problem, we tear it down, we cross it, and with that side, we lock down the House at a point that is constantly occupying our current and agenda. As far as we're concerned today about the democratic solution process, as we're concerned about, it's necessary to move some of the constitutional and legal changes in the process to the Parliament, while the actual problem with the bag law is to mock workers, pensioners, tradesmen and artists, poor, oppressed and laborers, and to try to save the situation, while in order to avoid an arrangement that will satisfy the basic needs of the workers and workers, to see the reality that exists. With the minimum wage today, let alone enough conditions for the survival of a family of four, we're still trying to put the easy and simple one on the ground, where we're in need of resolving our position in the world order of human life that we're occupying today with the poverty limit of $3,500, while we need to focus on it and approach it at a level that meets the needs of society. I'd like to bring this to the attention of the valued delegation in the process, in which the people of Turkey and its people do not deserve it. And in that sense, this law, which is fed, shared by all kinds of work and transactions, is apparently present, far from meeting the needs that are available, from the environment to social security, from witness protection to the woman who is being abused. It's about meeting a number of people's existing basic demands at a personal and individual point, adorning, manipulating the needs of a very few, and literally bringing them to the agenda of the Assembly. But what is expected in the law is the public interest, the benefit of society. It is possible to find this remarkable in related materials. First of all, there is an arrangement in Building Law 3194, which has been increasingly presuming that these reports of environmental impact assessments in the creation of a human part of our local governments will be removed from the past, regardless of the new mistakes, human and natural disasters that protect people on the legitimate grounds, without notice. This arrangement shows no public benefit, but it is a work that aims to open the way for a number of arrangements that allow the individual and personal to be ignored, but some of the projects of national and international capital groups to be out of control, out of control, out of purpose. First of all, even in Article 56 of the Constitution of September 12th, which we dislike and are not able to lift and change, says: "Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. Like everyone who has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment, it is the duty of the state to maintain a healthy, sustainable environment, to protect and protect it. While we are open to the government and to us individuals that we dislike, we are approaching with a sense that, at a point where we will carry out this task, which will be subject to control at a more qualified point, which will keep the CED report out of commission, which will also serve to keep the international projects that are intended to be done out of control. The third bridge, Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, hydroelectric power sources and plants, and many other projects, including the Gebze-Izmir Highwayway and so on, has also approached the problem at a point where profit, profit, interest, but not concerned with public and social benefits. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we know that social and political stability is not simple, but a function of diversity and multinationality. We need to remember that when you don't take the diversity of the environment you live in, the multi-different sensitivity that is based on bio-division, when you don't take into account the natural disasters that can be consumed, including the global warming that we're suffering from today, we have to remember that this globe, this world, this natural environment, and the risk that our children may not find, and the risk that our grandchildren are facing. In this sense, I will provide for society and human needs. I will provide for people and people who consume nature by saying, "It must not be the work of the social state, especially the state of law, which undermines the public and society." So, even though the Constitution is expressed in many ways, it means that our state mentality, perception and understanding are not both the state of law and the social state. So instead of our social policies, we're coming up with a sense that will serve the interests of international companies, conglomerates, trusts and monopolyes. In this respect, this law is in a frame that needs to be reorganised, particularly the CED report. In a mistake similar to an unsatisfactory perception, he also manifests himself in the matter of protecting the witness, along with witnesses and witnesses, concerning linking his family to social security. The witness is a snitch, a snitch, a snitch. If he's using a state citizen to report against another citizen, to rat him out, to inform on him, and to encourage his family to receive social security in order to reward him, if he's subject to that assurance, the state of law is not wanted here; there's totalitarianism, there's authorityism here, there's fascism if he's here. In this case, the legal system that we're discussing the solution, the opportunity for democratisation and democratic politics to come forward every day, is a counterintuitive perception of international rights and international agreements that you've created against each other by awarding our citizens, encouraging each other and punishing the other in this sense. But we know that these are the requirement of the neoliberalistic policies of the 11-year AKP government, just as in the gang approach, when there are contradictions to the Witness Protection Act, we can also see the same contradiction in health and in approach to health and social policy. If health was a person's spiritual, physical, political, social well-being, first of all, if the state was a social state, then all 75 million would be subject to social security, subject to social insurance, meaning that they had the rights and social rights. Our country, which is still in the 92nd position as a human life index, is approaching the problem at a point where its minimum wage of around 900 is 75 million, let alone happiness; its hunger, poverty, poverty, poverty; its merit is well-appreciated. While improving your circumstances should be in an effort to ensure the unsecured one, to improve the rights that have been earned, while saying that pensions are adequate, that living on minimum wage is very easy and that it's very easy, it's almost like playing with the fact that 75 million people live, not paying attention to the fact that they have earned rights. And we know that in our country, there are still about 15 percent unemployed, and about 25 million of our citizens have less than $3,500,000 in income. Here's what the legislature, which runs state and state's legislature, has to do first. It must be because we're away from this perception, that we don't find marketing, subcontractorization, and metabolization worth considering a place, a field, health, that he plays in. Just as we remember the fact that a healthy individual is a healthy society, we had to approach the problem with a sense of health that was not marketed or metamorized. However, as the relevant law states show, university hospitals and public hospitals, particularly public hospitals, are being evacuated, rendered dysfunctional. In public and university hospitals, people with skills, skills, jobs, and labors are opened by encouraging private hospitals, where private firms are given bonuses and incentives -- people, citizens, are deprived of social services, health care, which is their most natural right, and otherwise health and social services. I have to say that in the process that you've activated as a transformation in health, that public hospitals are dysfunctional and privatized, that our people don't see the hope that they're waiting for in health, that they're going through the depth of the problem every day. It should not be forgotten that you can take the gas from society, you can delay the problem, you can push it back, but if it is a political and social problem in the end, when you do not approach the problem of social and political problems with these parameters, the solution is certain that if you do not act on your projects in favour of public and social space, we will have a headache one day. The peaceful democratic solution of the Kurdish problem is possible, while it is possible, by denying it for 90 years, by procrastinating, by delaying it, the same problems that we have to solve as the character of the nation's unit state, between the centre and the state and the environment, between the state and religion, between the state and religion, between the state and the faith and cultures, when we can't solve the contradictions between the state and the identity in a legitimate, democratic and historical dimension, we deal with each other with these and so-so-so-so-so-and-so-so-laws. However, the day is now radically, in the name of democracy and peace, and in this sense, the work of antidemocratic and self-righteous fascist dictatorship on September 12th, to remove the Constitution, its product, to abolish it; instead, when we approach a problem of equality, liberal, peaceful, civil constitution, where everyone sees it, and everyone sees it, and is guaranteed by its constitution and by its laws, and its democratic common country -- language, identity, color, faith, whatever its nature -- is equal to a country where everyone is a free citizen; instead, when we approach its perception, we create a legal system of all kinds of things, like a single string. With the work we solve, we provide the community with both prosperity and security and happiness. Here's what the 24th Age Assembly should do, especially with the withdrawal of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which means goodbye to weapons, is to stand up democratic politics these days, show the will, the power to resolve the problems of democratic political society, so that tomorrow mothers will not cry, and tomorrow I will greet you with tears, hand in hand, heart in heart, in a future where we can leave our children free and happy country for our grandchildren.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0142par0141	Thank you. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa, who asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0143par0143	Sir, let's take the other one.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0142par0144	Ahmet Orphankaya, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0144par0146	Mr. President, 50 people are already here with 50 people... it's a waste of power for this Parliament.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0145par0147	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own people on behalf of the very valued lawmakers, Social Insurance Act 460 and General Health Insurance Act 460, and the draft for Amendments to certain Laws. I hereby salute the grand jury. The first part of the bill is seen as a means to meet the needs of social security practices over time. As you may appreciate, the Social Security Agency is an institution that concerns our 75 million nations, which regulates the working and social security lives of all our citizens. In this regard, it is of great importance that an institution that deals directly with everyone is constantly renovating itself in line with the developments in our country and constantly altering the legislation infrastructure in this direction. Members of lawmakers, the first seven articles concerning the Social Security Institution of this bill, the ability of our children under the age of 18 to receive health care without any conditions; the right to vote for foreign students and foreigners who live more than a year in our country for health care, general health insurance; the extra hours of health services bought by the Social Security institution; and the transparency of their decision-making mechanisms in the institution; the reduction of their additional fees in private health services servers and organisational colleges; the reduction of additional fees and regulation; the additional hours of health care services that will be provided by the health services provided by the Social Security institution; and the reduction of the employee services on which will be imposed by the institution; and the reduction of the provision of the institution due to be imposed on the basis of the provision due to a reduction of the provision, and a reduction of a reduction of the provision of the budgetary services servers and a reduction due to a reduction due to the number of health services, and a reduction due to a reduction due to a reduction, and a reduction due to a reduction of the number of the amount due to the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of health services. Mr. President, the law also stipulates that employees with contractual staff and staff of higher education institutions will be paid a lot of work for staff who work overtime, in the district of Şanlıurfa, in the district of Şanlıurfa, in the area of the Agricultural Administration, in order to arrange for the moving of those referred to as residents. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the bill includes arrangements for social security, as well as an arrangement for property peace. The goal of the peacekeeping of wealth is not to collect taxes, but to bring assets abroad into the national economy. The peace of existence does not mean the laundering of money. In addition, the implementation of entity peace will not affect ongoing investigations. Banking crises in foreign countries have greatly undermined his confidence. Nevertheless, the Turkish banking sector gives confidence because of its strong position. In this sense, we predict that the implementation of entity peace brought in by the bill will provide a significant amount of funding for our country. After the previous regulation of Law 5811 for the implementation of peace of existence, an asset of about 47 billion dollars was declared, and the tax was about 1.5 billion. The peacekeeping of the entity in this bill allows banks to be notified or made public with money, foreign currency, gold, securities and other capital markets that are owned by real or corporate individuals. The transports reported or declared under the law must be transferred to Turkey by the end of the month, following the date of notification or declaration of foreign assets, and to an account that will be opened in the bank or media institutions in Turkey. There will be no tax examination or tax history due to reported or reported assets. In accordance with the decision of the Tax Review or Appreciation Commission for the period before 1/1/2013, after the application of the clause, for any reason other than the notification or the declaration, it is possible to eliminate the sums reported or declared under the clause from the differences in institutions and the value of the additive tax. In addition, some earnings obtained abroad are exceptional in income or institutional tax. Profits due to the sale of subsidiary shares of institutions that do not exist in Turkey's legal and business centre abroad, participation from institutions that do not exist in Turkey's legal and business centre, trade gains obtained by the foreign workplace and permanent representative; profits from the implementation date of the article to 31/12/2103 -- including this date -- were transferred to Turkey until 31/12/2013, which was transferred from its law and business centre, Turkey. Congressmans, this bill also envisions that professors will be able to provide services after work hours in order to make the number of physicians more efficient due to the lack of physicians. In our meeting with the Plan and Budget Commission, the fourth clause of the bill has been adopted by a change in health care servers owned by higher education institutions, which ensures that the cost of health care provided by teachers for health care on the off-hours is onefold in the institution's health care examinations, and in other services an additional fee can be paid not to exceed 50 per cent, and that the Council of Ministers will be authorized to increase by up to 1 per cent. The date 22/4/2013, which is included in the first and eighth jokes of the temporary 85th article added to the Law on Taxes, has been changed to 15/4/2013 to ensure that the presence peace does not cover the date after it is announced to the public. Mr. President, in light of this information, the honorable legislators salute the High Assembly with respect to my words and wish our law to the best.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0146par0161	Thank you. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0147par0164	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the bill concerning the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. I give you all my regards, my love. My dear friends, the country's TRT Shesh is broadcasting for 24 hours. Are you happy with that? I'm happy. The Arab world is being broadcast 24 hours a day. Are you happy? I'm happy. But the Parliament, which is the heart of Turkey, where all the people in Turkey have elected and sent MPs, is represented, is unfortunately closing at 1900. Why is it closing? I've just arrived by counting, and we have 20 friends of ours in the AKP ranks. Well, if it isn't the People's Parliament. Isn't it necessary for the MP to be motivated, the speaker to speak here, to be full of these lines, or to listen, to hear what we're talking about in this Parliament that our citizens in Turkey have sent us as representatives, and to have an opinion about us? In what sense did we cut off the broadcast of TRT 3 (TRT) in Parliament after 1900? How much did we save? I'm really curious about that. Again, we're dealing with a bag of laws. It wasn't a shame in the past, but when the bag came before the House with the law, those who came were a little shy. But unfortunately, the idea of the Justice and Development Party began to make such an understanding a tradition by putting in a bag of laws on every issue and putting a lot of material into it. We've got a bag of laws ahead of us again. In fact, there are a lot of things in this bag of legislation that you and I agree on that you and I agree on in common. But we vote with you, you vote with us to the public in Turkey. Yes, this Parliament compromises on certain issues, on the laws concerning us. You forbid us to deliver the message. Now, we're about to start talking about matter. After we're done talking about the articles, we'll vote on the entire bill. So, what kind of vote do you expect the opposition to vote between our positive view of the social insurance bill, the property tax, and our negative view of the entity peace bill? On the whole bill, we'll have to vote against it. Four hours of group proposals, five hours of group proposals. If these plans came one by one, if we had discussed them here... well, what are we going to discuss, who are we going to convince? What AKP MP will we try to convince when 300 or so AKP MPs are in the hall? Well, let's not convince you, but when do we tell the citizen what's going on here? The channels are dead. My dear friends, the chosen path is not the right path. I don't think you'll ever have a chance to be in power again in the time you shut up the People's Parliament. Citizens, in Turkey, Turkey has raised political parties who strive to keep their own voices quiet and to keep their own voices quiet. In this bill, we've made a revolution in Turkey, we've done everything necessary in health care. You're saying that now, because of the lack of money in their pockets, you've banned people from going to health-related universities, private hospitals, because they don't have any more money in their pockets. Supposedly, they're free to go, but in order to get there when you look at the truth, you have to have at least twice the minimum wage in your pocket. That was one times yesterday, doubled today. In the case of the CED, which was taken from all the competent scientists in Turkey, you were allowed to do what needed to be done, and you removed it. Now, we have a presence of peace ahead of us. In the past era of this, in 2011, this came up. In the circumstances of that day, Turkey needs this money -- Mr. Lightning's statement -- we need to get this out, Turkey needs this money. It's been said and it's out. It's true that nearly $28 billion has entered. If Turkey needs money today, there's nothing wrong with it coming, but we need to be informed by the ministers in the responsible authorities about how much money is out there, how much is predicted, where this money will go, what investment will it go to, or how much employment it will open. If you don't pass on this information, we put everything in the bag in the form of blind combat. And what we put in this bag, no matter what you do, in spite of the number of votes given to us by the citizens, we put our fingers down, lift them up, and pass them. If he has any understanding, it is not in the interests of the people. Why was it needed? It's about the money entry into Turkey. Now, I'm telling our Minister that if there's a need for this money to go in from Turkey to become employment and investment, you know, in 2011, we took out an amnesty for the USSR and those in tax debt, and we divided it into 36 months in the USSR and 48 months in taxes. In this regard, the problems of the SMEs in Turkey are evident. The SMEs have now paid 15 installments in this configuration due to lack of business capital, but after 15 installments, they can't pay 3 installments, and since they haven't paid 3 installments in a row, the configuration is broken. If it is necessary to explain this configuration by example, then the debt of a citizen with a $100 tax debt reduced to $50 when we removed this tax pardon. He built 50 liras, paid 15 installments, but since he couldn't pay 3 installments, his debt is now up to 100 liras. It's the same with the SEC. This is not a pardon at Social Security and Tax. In this bag, we have to put in an offer on those who owe SEC debtors, tax debtors who don't make restrictions and payments, that if they pay, they don't break the configuration. If our Minister -- the conversation is not over -- and the members of the group's vice presidents, the Justice and Development Party -- are prepared to make an offer on this, we are prepared to sign under Republican People's Party members. Otherwise, people are going to have to face execution right now. THE problems of the SME have risen to a higher degree, and if we can save even one of our friends from execution, it's a gain for Turkey's economy. 700,000 companies in Turkey, 600,000 of the company, have serious problems. I'm talking about something that shouldn't be considered a pardon. There is no way to take money from a person who has paid 15 instalments, if a debt of $50,000 has increased to 100,000 because he has not paid 3 installments. If it is acceptable, Mr. Minister agrees with us on this issue, then the configuration that has been made so far must be paid for, and the money that has not been paid so far should be made available to the treasury, and should be opened to these SMEs regarding the continuation of this configuration. This has to be entered into this bill. Sir, we did this a year ago, we did it six months ago. Yes, do it three months later, and do it all the time, because it's not a tax pardon, so it's not the right of the taxpayer; it's a earned right. No businessman would refuse to pay off his debt to the government. But today the economic conditions in Turkey are clear. It is not so easy to find business capital in Turkey anymore. Taxes in Turkey have opened up much above a businessman, a medium-sized COBI. In this regard, I really think Parliament will take precautions about these people who, in fact, have not been able to pay their dues, who have done at least 50 percent of their exports, or 60. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit04spe0148par0175	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0148par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 460, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, Labour and Social Security Minister Faruk Çelik has asked for word on the entire bill on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0149par0006	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Social Insurance and the General Health Insurance Act and the Amendment bill on some Laws. I hereby salute the High Council. At the beginning of my speech, I condemn the abomination of the attack on Hatay Reyhanlı, and ask God's mercy on our brothers who have died, who have lost their lives, and wish immediate healing for the wounded. Here, as a government, the work that needs to be done about Reyhan is being done, it is being recovered. Studies on the postponement of bonuses have reached the final stage of my ministry. My fellow lawmakers, as you know, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security is a Ministry of seven-to-seven-to-seven-to-seven-to-one concern for all our citizens. In many areas, reforms have been implemented over the past ten years. More important than these reforms are reforms within my Ministry. Again, for our country, social security reform is one of the most important reforms in our country, a reform that has taken place over the last decade. This reform and three different institutions were merged under one roof. Inequalitys, inequality of service, have been eliminated, and serious ease has been made about access to insurance and health care. There has been a serious relief in accessing health and insurance services. Now, this reform took place in 2008. When we look from 2008 to today, what are the benefits of this reform, we see that in 2007, the number of people with active insurance is 14 million 763 thousand; when we look at 2012, there are 18 million 353,000 people in 2012. Given that the working age population has increased by 8.8 per cent -- during this period -- it is possible to see how reform contributes to the system, given that the increase in the number of insured is 24 per cent. So, the rate of working age is increasing by 8.8 percent, but the number of insured populations is up 24 percent. The bonus revenues, which were 44 billion in 2007, reached 101 billion liras in 2012, except for the state's contribution, and increased by 126 per cent. I'd like to say that in 2012, it was estimated to be a premium collection of 96 billion in 2012, while it was estimated to be 101 billion in 2012. When we look at the first three months of 2013, the budget's premium collection is still expected to be 26.4 billion, but we see that this happens at 28.3 billion. These changes are extremely important, and you appreciate them. I'd like to give you a few more figures: in 2007, total revenues cover total costs; in 2007, total revenues are 69.4% in the Social Security Institution; in 2007, 89.2% in 2012, including state contribution; in 2012, when you subtract state contributions, there are 74.5%. And it's possible to see an increase in revenues of five points by the rate of cost. When we look at the cost of our bonus revenues, in 2007, the rate of our premium revenues is 52 percent, and today we have 61 percent, and there is a nine-point increase. The Social Security Agency total revenues in 2012 are 143 billion and 2012 total expenses are 160 billion. So we can say that social security deficits are reduced to 1.2 percent of the GDP. I'd also like to point out that we've been carrying on our fight against off-the-book employment. Between 2008 and April 2013, 94,000 businesses were registered, and we see 1 million 495 thousand insured were registered during the period of the reform process. And what was the result of that? Its website is down from 52 per cent to 36.2% of non-registered employment. We also have incentive policies to increase employment. As a result of these incentives, $25.5 billion of incentives were provided, from 2004 to 2013, by the end of 2012. These incentives include 8.5 million insured citizens, employees, who continue to take advantage of them. With today's arrangement, we also promote the scope of these incentives to our workers who work abroad, so we have expanded the scope of encouragement. Now, valuable lawmakers, of course, work life, social security, areas with basic parameters. It's only natural to have changes in these areas, given that this life, social security life, working life, is a dynamic life without compromise from basic parameters. So time flies, it's not in our opinion that when there's change in many areas, when there's a difference in demands, the social security field stays static and stays constant and doesn't change. So you've done the reform of some of our friends at work, but you often bring changes here. I want to express their criticism, such as the changes that should be. Today, we bring to you an arrangement that eliminates health benefits for young people who are 18 years old and who have not had a day of 19 years, and the health benefits for their children if they are unable to contact their parents. In addition, foreign students are being transformed into optional situations where they are forced to take advantage of general health insurance. Another arrangement -- I'm speaking about the first part -- there is a representative of the Health Services Price Commission from the private sector or private hospitals or private health care servers and university hospitals. Again, as you know, private health care servers were able to detect a factor of one in the process. It contains an arrangement that can be increased by the Council of Ministers' decision by up to twice as much. In addition, we have a new clause in our universities that includes new arrangements for treatments related to standing-up treatments and treatments that are performed either by sleeping or by sleeping, outside of the working hours. I've just said, there is a five-point discount on health insurance for our workers who have been taken abroad. Thus, there are currently 36,000 workers abroad, which include increasing numbers, encouraging that our citizens, our employees, should be taken to projects abroad, not to the workers of foreign workers or the countries where projects are happening. The arrangement for women who are subjected to violence to receive GSS without being tested for income. Also, as you know, with 5084, that is 49, the incentive app ended as of 31/12/2012. There's an intense demand here, and the source of the demand is this: the new incentive system contains a regional incentive as of January 1st, a substantial incentive from six regions. In this package, an application of incentive towards these enterprises is in this package, when it is expressed that there are serious competition issues in areas where old incentives and new incentive practices are happening in the same province. This includes many such arrangements. An important arrangement is for the release of interest, which has been imposed due to the fact that health care servers' bills are overburdened and cannot be examined during the period specified by the law. This provision, as you know, contains an arrangement aimed at abandoning an interest situation due to social security reform, which was discussed intensively in 2006, 2007, 2008, when the Constitutional Court cancelled and arrived, especially when health care servers were not inspected during that period, in a specific area, due to the payment of a certain, local level of bills later being subject to a reduction in the interest situation. Of course, there are important arrangements in chapter two, so we'll consider that in chapter two. But here, our very valuable lawmakers have made important assessments. I want to thank all the friends for their contribution. Especially not all of our ministers, but as Department of Labor and Social Security, I don't remember anything we promised and announced and didn't do, so there's absolutely no such thing as promise or good news. We've done what we promised, we've done what we've done, and we've clearly expressed the issues that we've been working on, each time, both in Parliament and at all events. So it's a very busy ministry of problem solving, study and social security. And I want to point out here that a lot of the fundamental issues have been solved with your support, but we have nothing to promise to hold on to, but there are issues on our agenda. We bring our agenda to you as it is today. Sir, the contractor's testimony has been used. Yes, we're having a hard time negotiating with the parties, but we're working hard on it now, but as a public office, we've completed our work, but the parties' views on this are not clear. For example, I'm asking, I'm saying that subcontractors lack compensation for working less than 12 months. Now, we're expecting the union's support on this. We need to settle this severance issue, so it's not a 12-month condition, but a month's worth of compensation on our employee's personal account, if necessary. If you can't agree with the union on these matters, if the unions don't offer you a solution to this, then this is an important arrangement, a radical arrangement, a clear statement when we meet with the parties about this arrangement: bring your proposal. I'm making it very clear here.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0150par0024	Mr. Secretary, I have a suggestion. Let's get rid of the subcontractor work. Let's get this sorted out, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0149par0025	It's about the subcontractor...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0151par0026	Get the subcontractors on staff, get the public involved. There's a public-related dimension to the public, there's a dimension to the private sector. There is an arrangement for Article 2 of the Business Law issued in 2004, 2005. It's been seven or eight years, it's been ten years, and we don't think it's right to think that the 2th article is still in effect, and we don't look at it as a government. I say to the parties, I say that we don't like the spread of subcontractors in public, that this area needs to be organised, but the demands of the private sector are different, that the view of the private sector and the public should vary because it competes in the world markets, but no, the second article in 2002, the article of the Business Law, in 2003, is a win. We don't take a step forward from here, we don't take a step back. The approach does not serve the solution. So it's a point where we're looking for a compromise of sides, or we have all kinds of solutions with their alternatives, I want to express it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0152par0028	Let's move the subcontractor, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0153par0029	Sub-employment, not sub-employment, is an arrangement that entered our working life in 1936, in the late Ataturk era. You have to look at the reality of the world. We don't take kindly to the idea of eradication of service, but it is necessary to eliminate the exploitation of labor in the purchase of service. Who are you going to do this with? You'll do it with sides. That's what I'm inviting the sides to come to the table with their projects. That's what we're saying. Now, there's been talk of foreign debt. Dear friends, in 2002, the total stockpile of foreign debt is 129 billion dollars. Turkey's foreign debt in 2002 totals 129 billion dollars. Turkey's total external debt in 2012 is $336 billion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0152par0031	The public?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0153par0032	When you look at the GDP in 2002: 56 per cent of the illegal national client is an external debt; the total external debt is 42 per cent when you look at it in 2012. We say: 42 percent is less than 46 percent, and that's what we're saying, that's all we're saying.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0154par0033	If you'd looked at the internal debt, let's take a look at the internal debt.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0152par0034	The debt to the IMF is over. You say it, and you give good news.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0153par0035	Now, he also said something important: here's the valuable speaker: this debt is high. He's got the money that's worth something, the Japanese, the Americans, the British. So, that's, of course, from the old Turkey perspective, if you look at it as an old economy, that's true. So now the whole world knows our money's worth something. I mean, I don't think it's right to consider the TLL as the old TL. Dollars are a valuable sum. I think it's better to know that, too. There have been some assessments of unemployment here. We have 2,800,000 citizens who say they are looking for work in Turkey. But look, I'd like to show you the open business table of 2013: 134 thousand open jobs, 64 thousand we've placed. We've got about 70,000 open jobs in a month.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0152par0037	Mr. Secretary, I get calls every day.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0153par0038	Sir, if you visit the trade industry rooms, if you visit organized industrial areas... What's the problem? It's a matter of profession, it's a matter of unemployment. Of course, let's not forget the period when we lived for decades, when our young people were deprived of jobs, vocational education. He's had a lot of negative reflections on his work life, and that's number one. Secondly, İSKUR is now mobilised. We have made vocational education very common. We've got a lot of work to do with these open jobs, so that's what we're saying. We've got 70,000 open jobs this month, we're looking for employees, we're having a hard time finding 70,000 people. There is no unemployment in Turkey. Yeah, he's got staff expectations. Again, this is something we've been working on with the state personnel law. There's been an assessment of the configuration of bonuses. Dear friends, the configuration of bonuses is not on the agenda because in 2008, bonus configurations in 2011 have been extended several times, new rights have been granted. Of course, public administration requires a serious commitment. The demand is important, the demand is important, but it has been repaid. For him, I'd like to point out here that we have a request that is not on our agenda right now. Of course, there are a lot of arrangements, but since we don't have enough time, I'm hoping that this important bill, perhaps in the QA, will be a blessing. I thank you all very much for your contributions.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0155par0045	Thank you. The last word is Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP, who wants to speak according to the law of the MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0156par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Talks continue on Bill 460. Both our Minister and the ruling party MPs, opposition party MPs, have made significant contributions to this bill. In the commission, this law was discussed as it should be. He follows the public opinion and demands that the law be passed immediately. Hopefully today, if not tomorrow, we'll conclude this law, and I think it will answer the need for an important part of society. As a final statement, I've been working on the need to be passed on. I give my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0157par0054	Thank you. There will be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure on the bill. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0158par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, will public health expenditures increase or decrease with this bill? Doesn't a pensioner's salary increase by 3-4 per cent a year, and every time the Social Security Agency Act is changed, bringing a new burden to a citizen make pensioners even more miserable? As you said earlier in the press, is the minimum wage enough to satisfy the citizen's every need? Do you take your word for it? Besides, are you going to solve the problems of pensioners? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0159par0060	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0160par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Question 1: Tax evasion, crime-related funds are laundered by the name of tax peace. Our citizens, who are victims of 2/B, are entitled to their dwellings, not squatters. Therefore, the location of victims 2/B has been determined at very high prices. Our citizens are unable to pay these high prices. Are you doing a new study to compensate for the loss of our citizens? The question is 2: How many bag laws have been enforced from 2002 to today? The question is 3: How many bag laws have been established in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from 1993 to 2002? How much interest has been paid from question 4: 2002 to today? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0161par0068	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0162par0070	Minister, how many people pay social security premiums in Turkey; how many are retired from abroad and how many are retired from abroad? Two, he's old, his day's up, he's got a bonus, and if he pays his bonus, he'll retire. By your ministry, to pay the premium debt of these people, you wait five years, wait seven years, do a lot of promotions with banks -- at least a few banks -- are you going to help pension people who live to this age, who hang around and retire by paying their current premium debts? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0163par0073	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0164par0075	Sir, according to the fifth joke of the 13th article, it is said that 2 per cent of the tax, which is pronounced in this way, is reduced if tax review is done before 1/1/2013. Now, here's a conclusion: he's declared 100,000 liras, the $100,000 tax is 2 per cent, but then there's a review. Is this going to take 100,000 liras off the memrah, or is it going to deduct 2,000 liras from taxes? It needs a lot of openness, very closed down, one. Second, WikiLeaks found that Erdogan had money in eight banks in Switzerland. Now will those coins come according to this or not? These are, in particular, a number of gains, excluding taxes from here. So it's a tax exemption and an exception that causes a total amount of tax loss.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0165par0079	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0166par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just told you that all workers have been on strike since Friday (May 10th 2013) to correct the working conditions for the copper mining site owned by Genghis Construction in Artvin Province, Murgul County, Damar Province. Corporate officials have threatened workers, saying that if the subcontractors continue to strike, the other company, which is owned by the same company, would also shut down the Meat Copper Company. The threat will be closed in the event that Cengiz AŞ and Eti Bakır AŞ will continue to strike. The threat has disturbed our citizens working in the region. A total of 950 personnel have gone on strike since they are employed 12 hours a day and have no weekend vacations. In the mining business, Mr. Secretary, the workers have unfortunately been subjected to 12 hours of mandatory labor. That's why there's a severe victimization situation in Murgul County. There is an expectation in the public that this sacrifice will be resolved by your instructions as Minister. About that...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0167par0085	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0168par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, after the Full-Day Act began, how many doctors from university hospitals and educational hospitals in particular have been cut off and started working in the private sector? Will it be possible for the professors to return to the universities in such a manner that you have just made arrangements in the Social Security Act? From a citizen college hospital, when he had a serious problem, he couldn't get service. So can you explain this to me in college? Isn't this a sign that Turkey is following a wrong policy in its health care system? Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0169par0090	Thank you. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0170par0092	Mr. Secretary, in your recent statement about minimum wage, you are saying that the minimum wage is a base price. The employer can't ask for anything less. The minimum wage is the means to protect the social state. If you remove this, you'll get 400 liras. You've brought a back to him. So, if this is the government offering $400 or less -- like the salary of the leaders -- are we going to have a chance to hear from you tonight that the salary of our leaders, the most fundamental symbol points of the national will, will be healed by this sentence?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0169par0093	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0171par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this bill was transferred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the signature dated March 4, 2013. Eight days after this bill was transferred, the Bill for the Council of Europe was withdrawn from the Parliament's agenda, even though it was discussed by the Foreign Commission that it was appropriate to ratify the Treaty of the Council of Europe, which we signed in 2007. There are allegations that this bill adopted by the Foreign Affairs Commission has been withdrawn in order to give time to launder some of the PKK's financial resources. Is that true? Do you want to be given time to launder PKK's money? If that claim isn't true, why did your government withdraw this international contract that was accepted by the Foreign Affairs Commission? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0172par0098	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0173par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, May 14th is celebrated as Pharmaceutical Day in the world, but this year pharmacists celebrate their special days in sadness, not in the holiday weather, because many pharmacies are facing closure due to their loss. The problem is that the public discounts and prescriptions don't hold together due to the low price of pharmaceuticals, so the paper that's been spent almost doesn't cover the effort. Pharmaceuticals, in this way, demand the removal of public discounts and $1 per box of prescriptions. Do you have this kind of work in your government, or do you say that if the pharmacy closes, we'll have enough to survive? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0174par0103	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0175par0105	Mr. Secretary, you've taken a request from us about the Prime Minister today to a day when your party's group suggested Monday, where the television was not broadcast. Isn't it much more appropriate for our democracy, for transparency and accountability to have an important subject such as the Gensoru, and especially for all of our people to see, televisions are on and televised? Why do you choose Monday and run away from the public?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0174par0106	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0176par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words about the identity issues of the 40,000-strong private carabinieri. These friends of ours have a problem with retirement rights, unfortunately, and very low, no additional indicators. Even a three-month change of air is causing the relationship to be interrupted. They're given a lot of arbitrary punishments by their superiors, and when they're over that time, they can be terminated. Again, they only get 5 percent of the housing. I'd like to ask you a question about when our friends, our 40,000-strong friends, will have the right to be held by these professional people, who have about 120,000 people with their families. Our friends will be happy if you tell them about this. They expect this arrangement immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0177par0112	Thank you. Last question. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0178par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our councillors have asked us the question about these age-appropriates, and we're looking forward to your answer. You also said that you gave instructions on an arrangement that allowed employees or insurancemen who could not live up to their age and fill their bonus day to retire. What stage is this study at? There's a very serious audience waiting for the results of this work on a back-to-back bonus day. So we look forward to your answer in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0179par0119	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, first of all, is this arrangement bringing a new burden to the citizen? That's out of the question. In terms of health, step one, step two, step three, all our hospitals, all our health care services are in the service of our citizens. There's an arrangement in the private sector about private hospitals. It's under the authority of the Council of Ministers, where the difference to a scale of one will be doubled. As you already know, there's no difference in very important treatments. So the citizen's having heart surgery, in cardiology, there's no difference, there's no difference in emergencies, there's no difference between eight pens and cancer patients. So all of our resources, in fact, have been mobilized to 76 million of our citizens, and our medical expenses have increased from 15 billion to 47 billion, including medicine. That's why there's no burden. Another issue, regarding minimum wage... yes, my statement is exactly that, minimum wage is a protection fee, a base fee, no less than that can be offered. During this period, our power has increased by 320 per cent in minimum wage during the period. So no more can be given than that. It doesn't mean anything, but less than that can't be offered. I want to point out that it has meaning. Another issue was asked some questions about the second chapter, in the second chapter, especially about the peace of existence. We'll answer those questions intensively in chapter two when the matter arrives. I'd like to point out that you're open to auditing comments in the form of black money and some other organizations. This issue, these resources, is subject to inspection. So, no misunderstandings.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0181par0125	No, Mr. Secretary, you're wrong, it's tax confidentiality, and it's not open. You're giving us false information.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0182par0126	Why did you withdraw the contract, Minister?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0127	It gives a tax advantage, but I'd like to point out that it's open to inspection. The other thing is, it's good to split them up, because they're old-timers or debtors. First of all, it means that a citizen of the USSR, who worked for 20 years, had not been able to fill the age criteria.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0183par0129	I filled that up.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0130	It's a... If he's filled that up, he's already retiring. Prim day...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0183par0132	I owe you a small bonus, so make it easy.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0133	A man who fills his bonus day, a man who fills his birthday, a man who retires.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0183par0134	But make it easy.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0135	Criteria, two criteria. Now, one of the others, the day of the bonus, is not over, but has found 60, 65. Now, our citizens like this, who are over 60 years old and haven't been able to make the day of the bonus, are about 265,000 people. The number of people who are underage and under-aged, even though they have reached the end of their bonus day, is 5.5 million, as of before 2000. So, as the Ministry of Labor for all our citizens, of course, because we're the ministry of dialogue, our doors are open, we're interviewing all segments. Every time we see each other, we have a clear view of the General Assembly, as well as our meeting with social parties: We are a nation that has suffered a lot from past governments playing with the Social Security Agency. Today, if there is a crisis in some countries, there are populist approaches in social security systems under this crisis. Look, look at Greece next to us, you can see this. So, many years later, bringing in an arrangement that I've just given the numbers, a thousand and one of the biggest betrayals of this country, that we've all organized together, that will undermine the financial size of the social security system that we've done with the contribution of all NGOs.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0184par0139	Mr. Secretary, we don't want that.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0140	I didn't say you wanted it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0184par0141	We don't want to.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0142	For him, there should be absolutely no arbitrary, random assessment here. Citizens have demands they bring us, solution proposals. We've made it clear to them that we're considering these matters. And I don't want to be offensive here, and I don't want to hurt anyone, but it's Law 4447 in 1999, which, in essence, makes these problems today, right, but what's wrong, what's missing? The rules of the game have changed in the middle of the game, that's what's wrong. In fact, they're going to get a new job, and if this was an app for the new ones, we wouldn't be having these problems, but you're telling the ten-year worker that you're going to be working for five more years. It was released in 1999.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0185par0144	Well, fix it!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0186par0145	Fix it. Who's holding your hand, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0146	Look, you can't say that. It's a problem for people who have been randomly, arbitraryly, for 20 years, trying to hunt votes with this system.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0186par0147	You're doing everything you can for voting!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0148	Look, the government of that day, you were in the government -- because it hit a wall, it had to make such a poor legal arrangement because it went into a deadlock in social security.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0187par0149	There are MPs among you right now, and they're...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0150	For him, it's a delicate matter.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0187par0151	There are MPs amongst you, the minister at the time!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0188par0152	Those friends will form a group in Parliament! Friends who were then in those governments form a group in Parliament!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0153	I wish we could find a solution for the citizens who express their victims in this matter, sincerely, with good intentions, but I repeat: we have no chance of breaking financial balances. I've expressed here that after social security reform, there have been 9 per cent, 8 per cent, 5 per cent improvements in each area. We need to appreciate this. On the other hand, what happened in Artvin Damar (Artvin) is that both you and Mr. Yazrafil, our MP Artvin, have expressed here. I interviewed the firm right away at the break. Look, it's not true: yes, he's working overtime, citizens, he's working over eight hours, but he's paid overtime for more than eight hours of work. If he hadn't been paid, of course, it wouldn't be acceptable. However, the information I received, the first information I received on the phone, is that I can't take a week off. I'd like to state that we're going to do my dialogue on this, and we're going to suggest to the relevant firm that he should come back from this error.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0189par0156	Mr. Secretary, shouldn't you send an inspector? Is it a suggestion or is the inspector sent?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0180par0157	Sir, it's a matter of...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0189par0158	So you're saying I'll be on the wire when you need to send an inspector. If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0190par0160	It's not routine to call on a cell phone, sir. Put an inspector on it. Talk to the workers. Look, I interrupted my meeting because there's a meeting going on right now, that's what I'm saying. I'm going to keep talking about solving the problem with the week off. In exchange for every complaint we've already had about the inspection, there are necessary inspection procedures, so don't worry about it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0189par0162	Isn't that a complaint right now?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0191par0163	Madam Secretary, they're running it for 12 hours, they can't run it in the minefields for 12 hours, I'm trying to tell you that.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0192par0164	There is no return from the Full - Day Law. The Full - Day Law is being enforced. Here's the arrangement, the apps at the end of the shift. Look, we're a small number of doctors, dear friends. Since we're short on doctors, how can we evaluate a doctor as a doctor and a half, this is an arrangement on how we can benefit from the potential that exists, and so it includes an after-hours arrangement, especially in our universities, aimed at taking advantage of the savings of our teachers? A question was asked: "How many doctors have been cut off? " We see about 1,700 of our doctors leaving the university during this period, most of which are on free leave. They've been linked to the minimum wage for the mayor's salary. I know, of course, that our government, as in all areas, our concerned fellow ministers, have also evaluated this, but I think it would be more appropriate for our friends to give us a clear piece of information.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0193par0167	Minister, you haven't answered my question about this contract.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0192par0168	May 14th Pharmaceutical Day...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0193par0170	Mr. Secretary, why did you withdraw the contract?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0194par0171	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, I've opened it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0192par0172	We've had very important meetings, dialogues about pharmacists, and we've signed an agreement together until the seventh month of 2015, which is consistent with pharmacists. Can anyone say otherwise? We signed it together. In particular, considering the election years, we decided to make it the seventh month of 2015 and signed it. We've always been sensitive to your problems, we get together with three months of periods, and if there are problems, I want to point out that we're in a healthy dialogue about resolving them. Mr. President, I would like to say that the number of domestic pensioners is 9,937,000, and the number of foreign pensioners is 415,000. As a number of businesses, I've just stated the number of pensioners on the stand, 18 million 241,374 active insurance. The number of jobs is 1,523 in Turkey. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0196par0176	Mr. President, the question that I'm asking now, Faruk Bey said, "This concerns the second part. This is a negotiation on all of them.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0177	Mr. Young, we're in such a way...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0196par0178	Wait a minute, sir, let me tell you something.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0179	We don't have that kind of procedure. Wait a minute of what, young man?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0196par0180	The question I'm asking is very important.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0181	You asked a question, Mr. Secretary answered it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0196par0182	Now, sir, it doesn't answer specifically, and the reason is, look, I'll explain it to you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0183	I don't know how the Minister will respond.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0196par0184	I asked a very important question. For example, someone brought in 100,000 liras from the outside, and they're going to pay 2% tax.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0185	Yes, the talks on the entire bill...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0196par0186	Hey, listen to me for a minute! You make me, then you go out and sue me.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0187	Mr. Young, you asked a question, Mr. Secretary answered. You'll look at the Civil Code, sir, and the question-answer is 20 minutes away.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0196par0188	Yeah, I'm just saying, it's a big deal. He'll pay a tax for £100,000. Now, when a study is done, will this 100,000 lira be reduced from the matherah, or will it be taxed for $2,000? It's a very important thing, so it's very important. Why aren't you answering?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0197par0189	He doesn't know.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0190	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0198par0192	Well, instead of going and suing the court, run the fucking House here!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0195par0193	Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 8th article. Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP who asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0199par0196	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. Now, the bag of laws is basically a sack, it's a sack. After that, every day, every day, with a bag of laws, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey may set a world record. The Turkish Parliament may be the only witness to a parliament system that has changed the laws they've changed over and over again, which will not be in any other country's parliament. So I ask you, Mr. President, once again, to ask this Parliament, what if after a month, after two months, there could be such a poor, wrong law, and with these laws, can this House be kept occupied? So, first of all, I want to make sure that there's a process in the commissions and parliament that's really healthy, that's right, that's not being redone, that's not being redacted, that's why people aren't confused every day. The second thing I'm going to say is that 40 days and forty nights we almost got rid of the IMF debt. Every day, on one hand in the media, on the other in the group, on the other, you continue to celebrate that the Prime Minister has been freed from his debt to the IMF. This law, my dear friends, is the dream of the IMF. It doesn't mean anything if you just get rid of the IMF's financial debt. All of these legal changes are prescriptions for the IMF, the IMF project, IMF policies. You'll find that IMF policy in this law is the equivalent of all of your dreams here. This law is the IMF law. So, now, you have no right to rehabilitate the suffering of the people of Turkey by saying, "We are saved only financially" and paying for the new loads to the people of Turkey. Because these policies have gone bankrupt, and instead of bankrupt policies, you continue to release new taxes on the people, like the tax on the king again. You're now raising the 90 per cent contribution to 200 per cent by the authority of the Council of Ministers, my friends. I mean, mercy, conscience! On the other hand, we've reformed health, so we've fixed it. On the other hand, people, people who have no money, people who have no money can go from hospital to hospital, emergency to emergency in this country, and then I know that a lot of lawmakers here don't let us into the emergency room, so give us a hand. So, my dear friends, now, instead of these legal regulations brought in -- Mr. Secretary, over and over -- many of our friends from this podium have expressed that the opposition parties here, not just to show off -- if we could address the problems of this country, which have been expressed hundreds of times, the problems of this country, if we could bring the law of the people who are really old here, to the rights of the pensioners in this country who need to get their share before they grow up. We're doing something else instead. Instead, with an operation that we're doing, you're contributing to applications that allow the reinforcing of private hospitals of capital, again, with this arrangement. So, does this work for you? I know it doesn't work here because we're really telling it, and we're telling it, and a lot of opposition is coming together here, so be sensitive about one thing, and for once in your conscience, it's right, let's talk about it. Say, let's discuss it. The problem with people who are victims here, who are old, is that this country... you're always talking about, we have the 16th largest economy. Why don't you give this contribution to those who are paying the ultimate price for the 16th growing economy? Why do you still condemn pensioners to be paid under the age of hunger? So that's the problem that needs to be solved. Another problem, dear Minister. Right now, of course, there's a lot of trouble. It was 03 last night. The Air-Work Union started a strike at 00. Now, everyone's hands are open, what about the strike, the planes are already flying there, everyone's at work, no one's joining the strike. In the name of forward democracy in this country, in the interest of removing obstacles to the strike... Look, I'm showing you this photo, Mr. Secretary: There's a strike at this workplace. So here's the striker... there's cops in this place, there's no strike in this place. This place of work was at 03 last night. Dear friends who have been blockaded since 00. Workers are under pressure, one by one called home: If you do not wish to face the fate of 305 workers, go to work. If you want to take your money, go to work. If you join the strike, even if it's a legal strike, you'll end up with those 305 people. Now, we've made all our efforts, Mr. Secretary. Look, here's...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0200par0207	There was a little problem!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0199par0208	I'll tell you. Mr. Secretary, you're in charge. Murat Basesgioglu, who had previously been at your party, who is now a member of the parliament in MHP, worked two nights at a time again for such a problem, finishing the strike point in the Air-Business branch at the last minute. As long as it's intimacy, sincerity, sensitivity. Your duty, Mr. Secretary, is to intervene and contribute to that process. What is the conflict there, dear friends? Now, with a late-night operation, the strike bans immediately passed through this parliament, 305 people fighting against it, reacting democratically, were fired. I'm not going to do a very long analysis. Over and over again, the chairman of the Governing Body, Mr. Hamdi Gunny, was interviewed about these 305 people. They said, "We did the right thing, we did the right thing, they did the wrong thing, they did the wrong thing, we fired them for it." We said, "Well, what will you do if the court decides?" He said, "I will take them all back?" Look, the coroner gave his report on 305 people and said: "This dissolution is an unjust dissolution. The court has decided to extradite our 180 fellow workers. Then Hamdi Gunçu said: "This court decision is not enough, the Supreme Court is required." This time, 36 of our friends have been confirmed by the Supreme Court and we have left before Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, Monday. Despite all of this, as an opposition MP, I can clearly say that strike is not a goal for us and the unions, Mr. Secretary, it is a tool. He'll be driving that vehicle, but he's been taken away from our Air-Business Syndicate. So we said to Hamdi Gunner: at least confirm the Supreme Court decision of 36 of our friends and this contract is over. For you, eight thousand workers in the Road-Bust will work for the real job. You will decide that you will not obey it, you will not obey the decisions in the other place, you will not obey the decisions of the court, you will disobey the decisions of the Supreme Court, and then there will be law in this country, and justice in this country. This country has no law, no justice, no human rights! [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, Mr. Secretary, once again, I call for duty. I salute the High Council with respect, with love.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0201par0216	Thank you. Mehmet Günal is an Antalya MP who has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0202par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, again, we're dealing with a bag of classics. Our friends upstairs at the Commission have returned to Chuvalah. But Mr Çelebi has just stated, we call it "harar", Çukurova, Mediterranean, now that there are such cotton bars... why do we call them that? Because right now our friends just came up with another bag, this time with an offer. I've just learned from the press in broad daylight that another one has been presented to the House. Mashallah, there's something going on every day. I mean, this really is the wrong app, my dear friends. I'm also warning the friends of the Civil Charter Commission that after this, once in a lifetime, if he's in a hurry to finish, let the Council of Ministers own him. I don't understand how the President of the House allows this kind of thing. So the law has its own commissions, each one has to go through somewhere, our friends are offering a bill, change some laws, 7-8 separate ministries are coming in, a bill that needs to be discussed in separate commissions. How did it come to us? There are two other commissions, a commission, our friends met in a hurry in the morning, received a wire transfer, filed a report by noon, and came to us this afternoon. Now, can that happen? We've looked at opposition spells, but when are we going to read them, friends, is that a law-making technique? You pick it up in the morning in a hurry, it says by noon, two commissions, my dear friends there -- and we're meeting up in the afternoon, and we're talking about it. Please, let's do this seriously, there's no way to make a law like this, no technique. If there is, if there is something urgent, pass through the Council of Ministers, bring it to us, through separate commissions, then... And then, we laugh, and there are so many funny things coming out of it that it's incomplete because it doesn't go through that process. So the Plan and Budget Commission is almost like the General Directorate of Prime Ministerial Laws Decisions. Unfortunately, the House's department of law and order, I think it's because of the pressure that's coming, that's how he accepts all of this and goes away. Now, friends, we also looked at the date of this -- and I said just now, because it's 8 percent -- it's May 8th, sir -- I'm not going to argue whether it's going to be armed or unarmed -- and then on May 8th, here, on that day, you created the commission that your partner, CHP, and the MP, didn't. Now, if we didn't have objections there... the original bill, if you look at the text the government proposed, the difference between the Commission and the witness protection program, was suggested to include social security as well. Now you're saying where are you taking it from? You're bringing in the law on money laundering on one side on the same day... our esteemed MP just asked, the Minister ignored it, but today at the press conference he asked us as well. On the one hand, you bring it in, you put it all on May 8th, you put it in witness protection on one hand, and now what's more natural than asking if it has anything to do with this negotiation? I don't understand. When I put them all together on the 8th, if 9 offers were to come together in 8th place, and the Minister was there, he knew -- I knew Sakık was the secret witness -- we only know his name, and I said, "Will his family take advantage of it?" And then our friends took it out. Then why are we in such a hurry, so I don't understand why there's two, three bags of law coming in if he's in a hurry. Dear friends, please, sit down, discuss this amongst yourselves, whatever you have, whatever you have to talk about. Now, there's a lot of stuff in this foundation. I mean, the law comes in a hurry, but... we were just saying that about the Public Contraction Act, so lift it up. Because there's no letters left in the alphabet, there's no letters left in the alphabet to add to it. Well, now, we're looking at 49-50. Did he leave in 2008, Minister? The original of this 5510? So before five years, we added 50 substances, constantly adding temporary substances to the height. So that's what I just said, from our lawmaking technique, and from the fact that we've added exceptions or temporary provisions to every law. So this is an example in front of us; it's in the law that you have now. We're looking at the basics here, a lot of things have come in, okay, a couple of articles on health care at the beginning. We're friends, but we're looking at you, we've given you this authority, the Council of Ministers has the authority to increase it 100 per cent, and now you're authorized to increase it by twice as much. So once again, Mr. Secretary, maybe at the end of chapter one, we didn't get a full answer upstairs: Mr. Secretary, the commission you're getting here is 2 percent. Who's it from? You're taking money from someone who's out there, who's got a profit, who doesn't have a source. What are you taking? Two percent. Well, why don't you raise your contribution from the citizen here to twice as much -- we can discuss it. He said, "Mr. Minister, I'm paying your attention here" -- why don't you take 3-4 percent? If we had reduced the extra fee from the poor, poor, social security providers with the money you're going to get there, let's just say, let's double it, we've got the authority of the Board of Ministers, let's just say, let's just apply it, shall we? Who are we giving them to? It's not clear where he made the outside money. Even PKK's drug money can be laundered in this, with such provisions. Well, why don't you just... Come on, you're doing it wrong, but there's a guy out there making illegal money, with two percent... take five percent, take 10%. How many taxes does he get from us, how many income taxes do he get from your salary? Doesn't it start at 15%? Doesn't it go above 20 per cent with the corporate tax? So, when we take it from them, why do we get 2% that we're going to get a fortune tax like this? So there's an oxymoron here. And when it is found, thou shalt load the poor into the OTV, and thou shalt lay it upon the VAT, and it shall be for our poor citizen, who is exempt from the tax of income, and that which is exempt. Come on, think it over. Look, you're forgiving, you're exonerating, and you're getting a 2% commission. For him... there are many such things in this law. And one of the most important things, one of the many mistakes we've made, is that we've made this Parliament a place to go around the back of the court, my friends. We're constantly taking the place of the judgment. When you say "mighty," you're using the coven. You're not listening to what we're saying. The government is bringing something, or you're making an offer, and it's gone. There's a similar verdict here again, dear friends. So the court has a ruling on the environment. It's from the D.A. So? As with all who come, how do we invalidate this court order? We do things to go around it. Next thing we know, it's the same here. Here, I just saw it here. Mr. Godkulu wrote on the Commission as a commission on the opposition. If you look at the number of rows in front of you, among the commission reports, you can see them there. He's listed several major projects in public, but what else is going on, we don't know now, maybe the Minister will give us some information. We're going around the court and we're opening up something new to rule out any decisions the State has made. At this point, our friends have informed us that there's been a retrial. So the House is not a place to nullify the court's decision. We make the law, and according to his law, the courts decide. But every time, when it doesn't work out for us, if we use the House to make a law here, then there's no way to end it. We're not supposed to replace judges. Thus, in these provisions, it is necessary to observe them. It is not right for these projects to be subject to the exception of the CED, nor for them to be excluded from this CED report. We already have an application for the peace of existence. I just told you. I mean, there's even a... there's a law here that the terrorist organization... that we've all taken out, that we've all taken out together, that we're financing terrorism. There's an international agreement. We also went to a meeting with a few of our friends here in the European Union, with our friends from the Plan and Budget Commission, with lawmakers. I mean, we talk about it everywhere, but when it comes to practice, I guess we're gonna be the new money laundering paradise, what's it gonna be? So the presence here is something else. Friends, investing is one thing, but it's another thing to get all the money in here that doesn't have a source. But if we're doing this, I'm saying we need to find a way to do this more properly. I hope you won't continue with these mistakes, but one of them is on the Commission, and one of them is coming in, another bag of laws presented to the General Assembly today. Allah says, "Let me guide you on this." I thank you, and I honor you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0203par0237	Thank you. Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0204par0239	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on part one of the current bill. I salute your committee. Mr. President, we're dealing with a bag of laws brought by the AK PARTY Group, again. Before, the bag laws, which had nothing to do with each other, were far from solving problems, more to capital, to create Ranta space, brought to the agenda of this Assembly. In all the talks that we had had at the time, we said that this practice was wrong, so that making laws with patched mindsets, let alone solving problems, deepening the insolubleness of problems. Despite all of our warnings, however, the government of the EC PARTY and the AK PARTY group continue to insist on this issue in the same way. While this bill is being discussed, talks are not held on a secondary commission that needs to be discussed, these talks are held on the same day on the other two commissions and on the main commission. Now, if this consciously was discussed on the same day in the commission and the main commission, it is called smuggling goods from the Yang; and if there is no conscious situation here, then this is a comedy that demonstrates the seriousness of law-making techniques. We also feel that this reckless approach must be eliminated by the AK PARTY Group in the process of drafting the law after this. When we look at this bill, when we look at the contents of the bag law, there are a lot of issues in each article that will be uncomfortable. For one thing, first of all, one of the most controversial issues is the arrangement for the social security of these confidential witnesses. Now, this secret witness practice itself is a system that has been brought under pressure by all social communities during this period of government and has murdered the law in every practice. So far, law has been eliminated in all cases based on covert witness practices. While there is such a thing, you, in the sense of loyalty, offer these secret witnesses social security in exchange for the services of murdering the law. Look, we've talked about a lot of examples of the secret witness disaster here. In my constituency, 17-year-old Gülsum Koç was sentenced to life in prison only once, based on the testimony of a secret witness based on the fact that he came to the party office where we were working on the election. A 17-year-old high school student was sentenced to life in prison on testimony as a confidential witness, and in the following hearings, the secret witness expressed that he was not sure that the person he saw was Gülsum Koç, but continued in the same way. Now, this trial will be held in the Supreme Court. All attempts so far have failed. Now, you're bringing social security to a 17-year-old high-school witness who ruined the life of a 17-year-old high school student, with the money you collected from tax dollars of the poor father of Gülsum Koç. I mean, it's against conscience, it's immoral, it's against humanity. That's not gonna happen. Look, it turns out that most of the confidential witnesses in these indictments didn't actually exist, so there's a confidential witness testimony in the indictment, but there's no secret witness. How are you going to cover confidential witnesses that aren't there? If there's no covert witness, will you be insured by the law enforcement agency that fabricated this covert testimony and fed it to that indictment? Could such a mindset be a practice contrary to such a conscience? This application is similar to that of II. It corresponds to the period of employment and the period of detective during the Abdulhamit period. I mean, imagine a state bringing in a system that encourages right, justice, equality, espionage, snitching, cooperation. The arrangement here is an incentive for spying, for spying, for ruining someone else's life. Mr. Idris, we got him out, we got him out of the Commission. Now, we know he's still in the bill. Dear lawmakers, we feel that the current approach to this must be reviewed. Look, there are health regulations in a separate part of this bill. In health as a whole, we have repeatedly expressed from this platform the costs brought by the Health Transformation Project, the unjust practices brought to health workers, physicians, patients. As a whole, as part of the principle of being a social state, we have stated that it is the government's primary duty to give everyone an equal, accessible, free, qualified health care. The Health Transformation Project you've brought brings a separate burden to the patient every day, a separate burden to the health workers. Now, here, as we look at it, again, a paid health care is being brought to the citizens from the student body, which is intended to keep the faculty out of the university here in this system. Here, the financing of health care, the cost is being brought back to the patient. I mean, doesn't this state manage to give a lecturer a price to do his own professional development, his scientific work, his academic work, that he can honor his own life? The application you have brought here will not be possible for the professors to stop at the university, as well as the part that reflects on the professors. But here, you increase the cost of 1 to 3 times the cost of the patient. The habit of putting all the costs of this system, the Change in Health Project, on the back of a citizen, in the pocket of a citizen, unfortunately, you are continuing the same way here. Dear lawmakers, another important application in this bag of laws in the bill is about the removal of these CED reports. Now, in fact, with the AKP-era policies, the CED reports were somehow rendered meaningless. So far, in projects involving the ECHRs that have caused ecological destruction, despite the public's complaints, despite the public's reaction, you've already conducted certain processes, against the law and the gendarme's authority, despite the public's complaints. However, here you are making a legal arrangement, a legal cover for these CED reports. Look, there's not a single lawmaker in the region who can say that the people of that region are satisfied with these HES projects anywhere from East and Southeast Anatolian District to the Black Sea Region. We have repeatedly expressed from this platform that the total amount of energy that all of these HESEs have acquired can be repaired by the regeneration of energy transfer lines. However, as a whole, you have implemented these HES projects in Hasankeyf, in Munzur, in my constituency of the Black Sea, almost all of it. Now you're making a legal arrangement for these HES projects that have killed historical sites, sites, sites, and as a whole, and now will completely eliminate CED reports. And last week I went about the land of Benchal, and the land of Yayladere, and the land of Solhan, and the land of Solhan. The people of the region have had a huge reaction to the entire HES projects that are currently being conducted there, and the villagers have taken several walks against the Deepchay HES Project in Karliova. At the request of the gendarmes, it will not be the habit of suppressing the public's response by force, suppressing the democratic rights of the public, where you are conducting a process that will completely disable the processes related to the CED. We know that you've done the process with this CED, about the third bridge that decorated the Prime Minister's dreams. There's a presidential system dream. Here, whatever the Prime Minister's dream is entering, his legal arrangement is immediately brought to Parliament by the AK PARTY Group. We also see in this bill all the laws brought to this day by the EC PARTI, which support the neoliberal policies, the capital, the preeminent, anti-employee, working enemy approaches. We see the same thing in the arrangement for the peace of existence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We expect you to bring in some of the arrangements you'll be thinking about the rich, and one day you'll bring in an arrangement about the poor, the workers, the workers, the oppressed. We know this is difficult, but for once we wish you'd surprise us. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0205par0259	Thank you. Mehmet Akyürek, MP of Şanlıurfa, has asked for a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0206par0262	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the 9th Amendment to certain Laws under the Law of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. I hereby salute your high council. From here, I give greetings and greetings to my fellow immigrants, Ceylanpınarli and Viranville, who have been watching us at the head of television and have long longed for human life, who have struggled to survive without electricity, roads, water, school. I thank Mr. President Faruk Çelik, Mr. Mehdi Eker, Mr. Mehmet Bayraktar, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, and all members of the KSCE Commission who have conducted their own investigations. From here, apart from this, I give my thanks and thanks to the precious bureaucrats of the ministries and TEGEM, who work for the sacrifice of our governor, and to my families and fellow citizens. Precious MPs include the provision of a total of 169,000 acres of land in the district of Ceylanpınar, which, in short, belongs to the Department of Agriculture of Agriculture, which belongs to the District of Şanlıurfa, to be registered without charge in the name of the treasure and to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, provided some of this land meets the restrictions imposed by the Law on Land Protection and Land Use. Ceylanpınar Agricultural Enterprises, with 1,700,000 acres, is the largest agricultural business in both our country and the world. From 1937, when agricultural activities were conducted regularly, the problems of nomads have continued to be the problem of both business and locality. These families are scattered in the business, living their lives by animalism. Since they have no deeds, they've been assessed in illegal status. As a result, electricity, water, road, and school have been left behind by human services that are essential to living as human beings. The state is obliged to provide the services of each individual, its citizens, that are necessary to live humanly. As in all matters, our government has also been sensitive to this subject, which has been gangrene for years, has established commissions, has worked, has even issued Law 5608 in 2007. The law has decided to allocate land for families outside the agricultural business and to graze their livestock and to use loans to support housing in new settlements, but this law has not been enforced. Dear lawmakers, the TIGEM Ceylanpınar Corporation and the local people are inseparable. Most of the employees in the business are locals, except those who are appointed. Leaving this problem unresolved has negative consequences for both sides. There are great responsibilities for us and for the competent public officials in implementing this law. We have to do everything we can to get these people to settle their modern habitats as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, with the change offer we're discussing today, our nomadic people, our relatives, our fellow citizens will remain in the geography they've been living in for over a hundred years. The land, intended to collect, is entirely north of the Şanliurfa-Mardin main irrigation canal. The mouth width of the canal is 26 meters, and its depth is 6.5 meters. And because it creates a perfectly natural limit, the gene interference in breeding seed and breeding animalism also eliminates hesitations. Besides, it's a common assessment of the institutions in which nomads have never made agricultural production outside of livestock until today. In the region of about 4,500 populations, 40,000 small animals are up to 100,000 in the summer. It exceeds 500, or a thousand, with the presence of cattle. Its contribution to the country's economy and social structure is also overwhelming. I wish my respects to our delegation, to our immigrants, who are the people of TIGEM and locality, to be the solution to this problem that has been put on hold for many years.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0207par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0208par0276	Brother Mehmet, we supported you, you didn't thank us.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0209par0277	Give us a thank-you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0210par0278	God bless you all.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0208par0279	No. All the groups supported the commission, you didn't thank us.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0210par0280	I did, to all the MPs.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0208par0281	No, no...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0210par0282	Don't do this. You're our brother.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0211par0283	Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0212par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a personal oath on the first chapter of Bill 460, which is being discussed. I salute the grand jury. You're explaining, Mr. Secretary, that there is a need to organize social security practices to respond to the needs that arise within its process. The bill is about the Department of Labor and Social Security, where it was prepared. The bill concerns the 10 commission. Law number 5510, regulations concerning the CIT, and others concerning the protection and prevention of the family from witness protection. When you were preparing, you were able to fit such a large issue into 12 articles. Well, you can't solve the problem. After solving these, you haven't been able to set up a stable social security system in 12 years to run the legislation yourself, which is really troubling. Then what do you have to do? It had to be handled properly. The process is dynamic, as the Ministry, you will be ready for it as a government. For every case, you come to Parliament to solve problems. Yeah, and you ain't got no authority. There's a different sound for those of you who are waiting for age in retirement; you say it differently, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister says it differently, the Minister of Finance is against the ball. Aren't you talking about this in the Cabinet, for God's sake, Mr. Secretary? I'm just saying because there's a really big public response, so the government can't explain it, the AKP government, 325 lawmakers, can't do it, the government is asking us, the citizen is asking us. Let it come out, properly, in one hand, and let the government spokesman make a statement, make it clear. Each of you plays different tunes. Now, if you look at this, one of you believes in it, the other of you opposes it. He doesn't say a word to the Deputy Prime Minister, he always does the same thing when he feels guilty. Look, the economy isn't getting any better. The economy will get better, so you'll have done something. Everyone's gonna pay their premiums. What's going to be spectacular? It'll be fine. I just told you, one of the ministers is considering the matter in Hanya, and one is considering the matter in Kolya. When you look at someone's speech about the Central Bank, it's almost blasphemous, and the minister doesn't respond, doesn't make a sound, but you're looking, there's nothing against those words from the president of the Central Bank. He's right, he's wrong, he's lied, he's lied, he's concerned about why he's not defending them, they're in the Cabinet, they're looking for information that the Central Bank doesn't inform the Cabinet. Now, I'm going to ask you something very important: Do you have any work on the fact that the PKK people are borrowing their time on the mountain to be considered retired? Do you have such a commitment in Oslo? As a government, as a minister, are you aware of this? Just say the words.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0213par0292	They're guaranteeing a job.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0212par0293	. I mean, you can't say a few words to people who can't retire at their age, waiting for them, it sounds different from every member of the Cabinet, but on the other hand, there's no government official who knows how much they're guaranteed. Mr. Prime Minister, I gave authority to the state. He says, he forgets that he is the ruler of the state, so I have the right to ask you if there is one here or not. If something like this comes up tomorrow, what do you say to the government, we need to tell people here, we need to know, people need to know. Indeed, do you have such a commitment that you will consider the PKK's time on the mountain to be in debt tomorrow for retirement? Because tomorrow you don't have this. What did the Prime Minister say six months ago? He said to remove the immunity of those who kissed the people on the mountain, and the execution would come back. Now, when we look at it, side by side with the PKK, you solve all things together. Is that possible, Mr. Secretary? As a minister of the Republic of Turkey, you must come to this stand and explain. That's all I wanted to say for now. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0214par0296	Thank you. Labour and Social Security Minister Faruk Çelik has asked for a statement on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0299	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made assessments of our dear friends on chapter one, thank you. Now, sir, first of all, this law began with the IMF law, chapter one. I mean, I'm amazed that the IMF didn't know about a friend who was especially head of the labour organization. We all know what the IMF has been billing this nation for years, years, years of IMF policies. Besides, I entered Parliament in 1999, where our dear friends from the government of that day are here. We also know the periods of reflection of those processes into the EC PARTY, and I believe you're very pleased to see that we've come to a truly independent, self-determinated and appropriate point of view today from an questionable, questioned government understanding of government. So if you take out 15 laws in 15 days, we'll give you this loan. The second is about health contributions. Dear friends, you see, before social security reform, their contribution was limitless, so there was no such thing as one, twice, triple, five times, there was no way to get as many as he wanted. This could be measured as much in the basic law, in the main law, as in the first law. We're bringing in an arrangement that we're bringing in today that's only for private hospitals, if it's twice as much as necessary for private health care agencies, but we're also bringing in other arrangements. As you know, in health, right now, there are no additional charges for dialysis services; for emergency services, for intensive care, for heart care, for vascular surgery, cancer treatment, chemotherapy, radiology, organ transplants, such as newborn health care, and, see, there are no additional charges. In all these emergencies, in all these cases, there is absolutely no additional fee. But we haven't raised prices in the Health Apps Act for four years, so it doesn't have to play a very serious price. In this framework, you must not confuse the first, the second, the third, the third and private health services. And you're not going to get these differences, you're not going to get these extra fees. You're going to ask for very important treatment methods, and on the other hand, private health companies to make very modern investments. Well, then, there's got to be a field opening here. The area is now up to 1 times now, but it is not right to consider it a burden on the citizen to give the authority to exercise twice as much to the Council of Ministers in the face of an application that had already tripled, which had previously been unlimited. If it's true, look, I'll agree: if there are problems with health care, health care, health care, health care at the university, you'll say, "That's right. We're expanding that area, now we're building city hospitals. We're having a hard time figuring out how to get this matter to the wrong place when we're trying to offer public service in that area with city hospitals. There were talks about the strike. Dear friends, look, I'm just saying, is there a conflict between the HAVA-HIS and Turkish Airlines about a collective contract?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0216par0303	No.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0304	No, exactly, look, thank you very much. There's no conflict. What's a conflict? 305 people who were fired before, that's right.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0217par0305	There's a court order, Mr. Secretary, a court order.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0306	Wait a minute... I get it, I get it, but Turkey is a law state, right?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0218par0307	Legal government.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0308	There's a court order. Now, the employer, by law, either I start this 305, or I pay the extradition compensation. Either he's going to start the job -- judgment is coming now -- or he's going to say, "I'm going to pay the extradition fee." Why are you going on strike because of something that's not relevant to this collective contract?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0219par0310	Not on trial, sir, the trial is over.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0311	The trial is over, all right, but at the point of execution, why are you going on strike? As a matter of fact, the strike failed.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0220par0312	Would you agree if they stopped your Ministry?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0313	Two: I want to give you a good example that ideological trade unionism is no longer valid in the 20th century.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0221par0314	Mr. Secretary, you haven't left a union in the country.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0315	Look, this is important. Friends, don't let the strike strike at ÇAYKUR. we said. It's the union that's in charge of the judiciary, TEKGDA-BI; I'm telling you straight. Do you have the authority? You got it. What did we do as a government? We've provided the union with all the benefits of previous contracts, so we've given the workers those rights. Now, we've sat down, and since we said we're going to make a deal in the past, we've also provided an additional opportunity that is not subject to a $5 trillion collective contract to each worker for $250. Who? To the employment worker. We said take it; believe it, the union couldn't get it, they couldn't get it. Although we paid each worker an additional 250 lira campaign fee, the union did not receive it and I will go to Greve. Here, you have the right. we said. He couldn't carry out the strike in the morning. And now he says to us, "Please let's make a collective contract, we've given up everything, just as long as we sign." Now, friends, this old-fashioned sense of unionism... because I told them, I was with them in the evening, I told them: You can't exist in today's industrial relations with the concept of trade unionism in the 20th century. This is what happened to him in the AVA-HIS, and that is what happened to him in CHAKUR. It's better to know that clearly, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0222par0316	Just shut it all down.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0221par0317	I say we make a law, call off the unions.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0318	As for other matters, the secret witness is not in the law, my friends. We all evaluated it together, we talked, and we said, "Okay, it needs to be removed. We made a decision together. I'm sorry to hear about this again, and the fact that the law isn't being read makes me sad, so let me put it this way. Friends, a party that is an enemy of labour can't get 50 percent of the vote. An enemy of labor can't walk down the street, ride red plates, wear badges.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0221par0320	700,000 people say I'm insured, thank God. That's what you did to the country!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0321	But, thankfully, we've been with workers all over Turkey for 11 years, and we're with the workers, and we're with the people, and I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0223par0323	Your cars always have civilian plates, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0224par0324	You're walking around with guards, Mr. Secretary, even in the House.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0325	Let me just say there's nothing wrong with the cabinet. Look, about this, maybe... For as long as I can, we've never told a pensioner... how to hang out with people who hang out. We don't give a shit about pensioners. We don't give a shit about pensioners. It's a legacy we used to inherit. So, what did we do? We said, "We will listen to your problems. We've heard the problems.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0225par0327	Why did they have those problems, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0215par0328	But, again, it's definitely not our signature on a decision that affects the financial size of the social security system. Because it's to leave problems to grandchildren. We're not the kind of government that leaves problems to grandchildren, we're the kind that leaves beauty behind; I want to express it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, therefore, the cabinet ministers are asked by a friend who is in charge of the economy: is there such a thing in your day? They say, "No. There's nothing wrong with that. There's absolutely no regulation on our agenda that's going to break the financial scale, that's going to disrupt the financial balances, and it's not going to be about social security. But could there be a way out that Mevlüt Bey has often spoken to us? Can we do a study on the removal of victims? Like our proposals, the Ministry of Labor works and what we are working on, to see if there could be a way out of this, especially with our citizens who can't benefit from health. That's the technicality. Otherwise, it's not about fiscal balance. The question asked to our friends in charge of finance and Treasury is that they are not present because they ask questions about a structure that will disrupt financial balances. They say, "It's a very accurate assessment." Dear friends, of course, there are other important issues in this department, especially assessments of the peace of existence. In the next chapter, I hope we can share our assessment of that. I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0226par0334	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Abdulkerim Gök, MP of Şanlıurfa who has asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0227par0337	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It is very important in the proposed bill, and there are arrangements that concern Turkey's economy closely. Here, particularly international credit rating agencies and international investors will directly affect the security of the Turkish economy at the point where it is a safe haven.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0228par0339	Spain was the same before it went down, Greece was the same before it went down. Cut the crap!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0227par0340	...or the provisions that will lead to significant positive improvements with side effects. Of course, the peace of existence is a dimension. However, here -- the speakers before me -- have expressed -- I especially want to say that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular, social law state in which it is at peace with its citizens and in its constitutional definition. We are bringing together a very important regulation in the period of the AK PARTI, when we are faced with an understanding of producing services in social understanding. The speakers before me expressed it, and I'm going to mention it in part. And thank you all for your hard work. This bill, especially when discussed in the Plan Budget Commission, has contributed to the contribution of my fellow opposition lawmakers, who expressed their sensitivity and expressed their positive views, and I once again thank you. That is the district of Ceylanpınar in Şanlıurfa. I'm born and raised, guys. I know it well. They're nomads who live there for 30 years... but they've been wrongly discussed in academic life for years, not nomads, but people who live there. Thus, we will all receive the blessings of the people who live there together, as a result-oriented, solution-oriented proposal is the law that you see fit. Seriously, people have been calling since yesterday and they don't believe it. After our meeting with our governor, my fellow deputies, people, parties, from the moment they heard about this arrangement, applauded. It has been promised for many years to the elderly, men, women, all of the people -- Mr. Minister -- that we will always make arrangements. It has been said that they have come to Ankara, and they have been forgotten. But we say, with the support of you as AK PARTI authorities, we hope we can give this problem a scalpel. Because these people lived here without electricity, it's true -- our fellow MPs told us -- because they weren't in the legal environment. But with this arrangement, we record the unregistered conditions of life. From now on, the electricity will go on record, and then the schools will go on record, and then the water needs will go on record. Now, even before we take out this legal arrangement, there are about 200 billion fines on each individual who lives here, with some old money. Why? Because in order to maintain their living conditions, every activity they have done here has been punished by the governorate. To him, this legal arrangement is extremely important. In addition, we'll make them at peace with the state as soon as they leave the environment where they are now. Because they're animals. These people will also forget their years of distress within the territory of TEGEM. So, once again, we're dealing with an arrangement with the AK PARTI authorities, where social law principles are valid, social policies are valid. Once again, I'd like to thank everyone who's done what they've done; I'd like to thank my fellow opposition MPs, and thank the ministries. Indeed, the locals are very excited. My dear friends who have seen it have already seen it, and many words have been spoken. The following arrangement, I hope, will be carried out by your votes. I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0229par0349	Thank you. There will be a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Mr. Kokturk, please.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0230par0352	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, 38 of our miners were killed in the bombings of the Grizu, which took place during the construction of subcontractors in the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation's Kozlu and Karadon businesses. In Zonguldak, where you came, you stated that you did not find it right to subcontractorize in the workforces, which require heavy risk, which requires great experience, like the mining arm. In all the time that's been going on, have you had any work done on the removal of subcontractorization from Turkey's Taşkomu? Do you plan to remove subcontractorization from Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation and make subcontractors staffed? My second question is, have you launched an administrative investigation into workers who have been threatened to continue their employment duties on condition of paying their severance pay back to the employer? And did you have any appeals to the state's attorney's office about the launch of a criminal investigation, or why?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0231par0355	Thank you. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0232par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Six years ago, the Prime Minister stated that he would solve the problems of all temporary and seasonal workers and give them a staff. Although tens of thousands of workers have been doing their jobs in the government, they are unfortunately laid off at certain times of the year. When will the problem of all temporary and seasonal workers be resolved? In addition, workers who work under 4/C have been promised a staff, but are currently unable to receive a staff. In particular, TECEL workers work for 11 months and receive very little salary. They are also suffering a great loss. When will these people's sacrifices be restored and their faces smile? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0233par0361	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0234par0363	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the citizen asks: a person who is disabled from birth can retire by paying a premium of 3,960 days. He retires in 1,800 days when he's insured. Isn't that an injustice? Are you planning to fix this? And now I'm asking you, I've just asked you, I've asked you, I haven't been able to get your answer: The Law Bill of the Council of Europe has been signed on 16 May 2005, signed by our state on 28 March 2007, sent by the Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 16 June 2008. This period was re-signed on September 22, 2011, and on March 12, 2013, the bill was withdrawn from the Parliament agenda. It is considered to be related to the entity's peace, that PKK's property is related to the laundering of money. Why did you draw this bill?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0235par0366	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0236par0368	Mr. Secretary, under the name of social security support, you've been instaling unpaid premiums. People were in debt, they were in debt to everyone, they didn't realize it, citizen, and for thirty-six months, you were in installments in a law. However, although you have stated that a citizen who owes about 3,000 euros has reached 9,000 euros, with interest, but if it is structured, he will pay more and more instalment in thirty-six months, in this configuration it says that the numbers are too high in 36 months, and that interest is less when he gets a loan from the bank in thirty-six months. We have information on this, we have documents, we have more interest rates than bank loans, we have 36 months in loans. First, I want to know what you think of this. And my second question is, he's done his bonus day, he's done his job...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0235par0371	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0237par0373	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just asked, will public health expenditures be reduced or increased by this bill? You said it wouldn't change. However, in the bill, as you know, private hospitals will now receive twice as much money from the citizen as they have ever received. During your reign, there was not a single bed extension made for Mughlah. And it's a borough that's growing very quickly, and it's migrating. How will citizens in public hospitals get treatment if they can't do their job, if they're not going to a private hospital? I mean, why did you need to raise that burden? Again, how much will the PKK bring to Turkey with the 13th article you have added to this law under the name of peace? How much money will come from the money transferred to Swiss banks due to corruption, corruption? What's your account? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0238par0377	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0239par0379	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I didn't get the answer to the questions I just asked. So I'll ask you again. From 1983 to 2002, how many bags of legislation were adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? 'Cause it's always your generational calendar, 2002. From 2002 to today, how many bags of legislation have come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and made law? Question 3) How much does the state of the Republic of Turkey owe to foreign institutions and organizations? If the Republic of Turkey doesn't owe anyone money, why don't you raise pensions? From 2002 to today, how much interest was paid by the state? Question 5) How many companies are banned from contracting because of the tenders made in your ministry, and how many...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0240par0387	Thank you. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0241par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, courts have ruled that subcontractors working at the regional directorate of the General Directorate of the Highways are not temporary workers, these are regular workers. And the Supreme Court approved those decisions. Now, I ask you, are you going to recruit subcontractors based on these decisions approved by the Supreme Court? In some counties there are reports that all these court decisions have been terminated by subcontractors. Do you have any precautionary measures to save these subcontractors from these problems? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0242par0393	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0243par0395	Mr. Secretary, in your speech, you left out a very important detail when expressing Turkey's foreign debts, I'd like to remind you of that. You didn't count all the revenues you made from privatisation by selling all the facilities that the entire nation paid taxes from the Republic to your power. You sold Turkish TELEKOM (TEKEL, SEKA, PETKIM, ERPRAS, ERDEMIR, all of the ports, 195 public facilities, 2,629 plots, buildings and lojms. You've earned $38 billion from these, and you never talk about them. From the Republic era to 2002, you've acquired a revenue that no government has ever made. Mr. Secretary, do you accept that you act like a full-fledged heir?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0244par0398	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0245par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. Every day, the cry for help from the pensioners rises. Despite all our warnings, the Intibak Act has devastated the pensioner, causing a gap between wages. This is called social injustice. Retired before 2000, he receives about $300 more than the one who retired today. It's obviously the percentage you underestimate is the contribution of the pensioner, the drug money, the money for the food, the money for the living. Although we have repeatedly stated that an arrangement is necessary for pensioners before 2000, there is still no concrete step. Minister Faruk Çelik said the country's resources should be seen whether they are rational or arbitrary for a new arrangement. In this country, the pensioner's name and the worker's name do not come together. In this country, there's only one people who use resources and take every step based on pleasure, and that's our government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0246par0403	Thank you. The last question is for Mr. Tallırmak. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0247par0406	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, in the last three months, has there been a lease made on your institution's property in Aydın? What price is this lease made of, and who owns it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0248par0409	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0411	Mr. President, thank you very much. Now, of course, mining is dangerous, very dangerous business. The Law on Health and Safety in this regard is, in fact, an arrangement that will solve our problems in a very significant way towards the future. As you know, it involves risk assessment, and it will no longer be possible to work and work in very dangerous businesses without all the risks being taken care of. A significant portion of the law entered into force as of January 1st, and another important part will be implemented as of the 7th month. So 2013 is a very important year for occupational health and safety. There's been an assignment on this issue, and it's under review -- current information -- and a forensic investigation is currently out of the question. Once the examination is completed, the issue will be more administratively clear. The location of the temp seasonal workers, as you know, we've made an important arrangement for our six-month workers, and we've put about 226,000 employees on staff. Earlier, in our administrations, 29,000 workers had been recruited. An arrangement for workers under six months, which you refer to as temporary and seasonal, is currently not on the agenda; their positions are now being held as temporary and seasonal workers. It's about the people of 4/C... we say our public staff system is very fragmented. There are now four statuses. We're in favor of reducing these statuses, but as we reduce these statuses, of course, we've met with social parties several times, actually, we've completed our meetings with the parties, and we've finally decided on political will right now. I believe that changes to the 657 are now at the final stage. Many assessments of this entity's peace are being made. Dear friends, I find it hard to understand that when you look at the general conjunctural, this presence peace is a conjunctive that is appropriate to be made now. What is this? The crisis in the outside world is one of the main reasons why banks have problems in the financial sector and the security environment in Turkey or the banking system is healthy. Now, if there's a source that exists abroad, I'm having a hard time getting these assets into the national economy, and I'm having trouble getting them on the other side, that's one. Second of all, it's not the first time, it's not the first time. There was an arrangement with Law 5811. A similar arrangement is now on the agenda here.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0250par0418	I'm asking why international contracts have been withdrawn, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0419	It's another thing when a law you're talking about is off the agenda. The concerned Minister friend...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0251par0420	Not separate, sir, not separate.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0421	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0251par0422	Tell me why he withdrew.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0423	I don't know why that law is off the agenda.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0252par0424	That's what we're asking.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0425	It's not about my Ministry, but why did you...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0253par0426	Most of the issues already in the law are not related to your Ministry.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0427	If you'll excuse me. But the entity... sir, we can answer it in writing at this time, in the date of the law, in which it was drawn. That's different. But it has nothing to do with the peace of existence. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0253par0428	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0429	I'm saying it has nothing to do with the peace of existence.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0254par0430	Sir, tell me why he withdrew.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0431	But we'll present it to you in writing.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0255par0432	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0433	Mr. President, there is, according to what?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0255par0434	You say, "No, no, no." What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0435	The peace of existence is now in our hands...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0255par0436	No, you don't, you don't. You say, "No," but for what?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0437	I'm telling you this because I know how it feels.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0255par0438	Then why did you withdraw your European Council contract?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0439	How the peace of existence came to light...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0256par0440	You send it twice, twice.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0441	...I know his meeting with the Board of Ministers, the bill, the process of putting it on my bill.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0257par0442	Why are you filming? Why are you filming?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0443	It has nothing to do with him. Besides, there are possibilities for this peace, this peace of existence.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0257par0444	It's a good environment today, you say. Here, the expansion and solution process are a good environment.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0445	Last semester, the peace of assets yielded a tax revenue of $1 billion -- 576 million -- 1.5 quadrillion. I mean, why does that bother us?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0257par0446	Won't it bother you if the money is laundered?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0447	Look, there's absolutely... look, look...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0257par0448	Doesn't it bother you if it's drug money?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0258par0449	Read the MASAK reports, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0450	Mr. President, that's out of the question. It's not closed to study, it's not closed to inspection, and I want it known. I mean, it's a tight...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0257par0451	So, you don't have anyone to protect? That wouldn't happen, dear. Then let them trade drugs, it's the money that counts.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0452	Sir, look, you're trying to lock him in a narrow corridor, but the government is not at that point, I want to point out.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0257par0453	Beyond that point?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0454	The point where the government is located, in terms of developments in international markets and these developments, is how Turkey is able to achieve these opportunities in its own national economy, and it has succeeded in the first, and now it will succeed, and we will all benefit from it, and it will benefit from 76 million.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0259par0455	Minister, why did you film this?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0257par0456	You called me subject to my inspection. Where is he being audited, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0457	Now, a statement was used that the health care was not available to Mughla, as of the number of beds. However, there is a study on the construction of health facilities on all sides of Turkey until they reach the borough level. If there's a flaw, we'll discuss it with our concerned Minister of Health, if you have facilities, that's one.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0260par0458	What hospitals did you build? There's no answer to the questions we're asking.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0459	Private hospitals, friends, will not be noticed by twice as much, will be authorized to receive twice as much attention, and how to use it...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0260par0460	Why do you take it then?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0261par0461	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0462	Now, look, there's a one-fold difference, but there's a 30 percent difference, there's 60 percent difference, there's 70 percent area, there's 90 percent space.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0262par0463	You'll double it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0464	They're classified according to grade A, Group B, Group C, Group C service quality. For him, there's an opportunity to make twice as much difference as the hospitals in group A, both physically and as possible, or there's no such thing as twice as much difference in all health care agencies, private hospitals. The Council of Ministers will evaluate in this elasticity. I repeat, what matters to us is that all our citizens have easy access to health and that the opportunity to take advantage of health is easier.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0263par0465	Give the citizen a little more credit!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0466	We do, but beyond that, if a citizen wants to get health care in a more qualified, more comfortable, five-star place, it's not closed, but there's a price in the world. See, in all the countries of the world, there's a price, there's a country where turnouts go up to 85 per cent, there's a country where countries go up to 60 per cent. In Turkey, the accession shares we're talking about are only $3, $5, $10. Please, let's look at the comparison of these.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0263par0467	I don't suppose you ever go to the hospital.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0468	There are patients in the world, developed countries, countries in the European Union, waiting for six months, eight months, ten months of appointments and surgeries.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0264par0469	So you'll get more, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0470	And Turkey has come to an attractive point in health tourism.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0264par0472	I suppose you're thinking of taking a little too much.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0249par0473	Now, he asked a long question, Mr. Congressman Mahmut Bey, about this bag of laws, and we'll give it to him in writing.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0264par0474	Mr. Secretary, where's the 5 lira turnout?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0265par0475	Mr. President, for the record, He said the peace of the entity is subject to all kinds of controls. There's never any such thing, because of tax privacy, no one can control the peace of existence, and I'm just saying that for the record.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0266par0476	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0477	Now, look, I'm just gonna finish these questions... Yes, there are judicial decisions regarding road workers. These decisions have to be applied in terms of staff or compensation. We had another meeting with the union today. So we're at the point where sub-employees, sub-employee workers, are in the position of judicial decisions based on which path to follow, or the position of the staff...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0268par0479	Mr. Minister, you should be afraid of God, let's put him out of business with a salary of two, shall we? Would you accept it if you were given two salaries and your ministry was terminated?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0480	No, sir, not two paychecks. We're talking about a ten-year-old employee who's been working these highways for 15 years, please.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0269par0481	You're gonna give me five paychecks?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0268par0482	Mr. Secretary, would you agree if they gave you your salary and fired you?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0483	Compensation, if the law...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0269par0484	They need a staff, Mr. Secretary, mercy!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0268par0485	Minister, put yourself in those people's shoes.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0486	Mr. President, now, staff or compensation...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0269par0487	Take the money, I'll throw you out. It's not all about the money! You always have dollar signs in your eyes!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0488	Sir, you sold all the facilities. Mr. Levent says, should we have damaged all the facilities?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0269par0489	You're thinking too green!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0490	So let public facilities continue to damage and continue to be funded. An approach like this is not our approach to getting out of the way. While we're on our way, the public will be able to...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0270par0491	You said we'd sell everything. Sell it, Minister, sell it; there's nothing left!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0492	So we said we'd eliminate the concept of humping, of being burdened, and we made that clear, so there's nothing we're doing in secret. We've arranged for pensioners before 2000. The orientation was extremely appropriate. We see about 1,900,000 of our pensioners are happy everywhere we go. We call it the system dynamic. See, since there are no shortages of demands, the fact that there are changes in social security shows how justified he is in these questions. Sir, we say that if you take good care of the law, it goes on to say, "If you pay attention to the law, tax is taxed by 2 per cent on the value of assets declared to tax agencies." So you've made a $100 statement in terms of property peace, 2 per cent tax will be paid. E, for other reasons, if for another reason or if for other reasons, there is another reason, and if there is 200 lira in this assessment, I expressed this in order to subtract $100 from that other $100 and to express that the tax will be taken again. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0271par0496	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0272par0497	It's about the investigations that have begun, Mr. Secretary; it's about the investigations that have begun. Not after January 1st. Of course, you don't know all about it because it's the law.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0267par0498	No, sir...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0272par0499	It's soup and a bag!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0273par0500	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. Congressmans, there are two motions for the new clause violation. As they know, it is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the bill or the proposal, but requires a change of a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended mostly. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the meeting of the Commission, which is considered a new clause, will be open on the proposals which the Commission has attended mostly, and the number of motions laid out in this article can be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the following clause as item number 1 to the current 460 rows of legislation. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Malik Ecder Özdemir Bkent Kuşoğlu Gürkut Acar Selects Mahmut Tanal Vahap The title and third joke of Article 30 of Article 5510 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No.1/31/5/2006 has been changed in the following way and the fifth joke has been removed from effect. "The beginning and the cutting of your old-age pension" "For the first time since the adoption of this Law, the period of seniority from people who are insured for the first time is cut at the beginning of the payment period, including the first joke of Article 4 (b) except for myself or under the laws of a foreign country. In their time under the Law, they receive a bonus for health insurance with short and long-term insurance arms, according to the basic earnings of the primer, determined by Article 80. It is reconnected with those who have stopped their pensions, either by quitting work or by closing their employment, to those who have filed a request for a reconnection of old age, or to those who have been retired or transferred, from the period of the period of payment that follows the written request date or the date of their departure from office. The new month is the sum of a partial pension for post-retired work as well as the monthly start date mentioned in this joke, followed by an increase in the month after the old month was cut. The post-retired part of the pension is a monthly, post-retirement, and post-retirement bonus is the number of days, and the percentage of the pension payment is proportional to the number of days, which is calculated according to the 29th period of the pension, based on the actual earnings of post-retirement work and post-retirment earnings." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0274par0515	Mr. President, let's invite the commissioners.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0275par0516	Friends of the Plan and Budget Commission...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0274par0517	We don't have a majority, we can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0276par0518	Since the commission does not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm withdrawing the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 460 is the following. We propose that the matter be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Levent Gök Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Kamer Young Article 1-31/5/2006 and the second order of table (16) in Article 40 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510 has been changed in the following way, and (18) the following ranking (19) has been added. "The Act No. 5953 is dated 13/6/1952 and is covered by Act 5953, which operates as workplaces under 90, as well as those who have been employed in public institutions as journalists while having a press card, according to the Press Card Act." 1) The gas that passes through the body through respiratory or skin or other places of work where other toxic substances work 2) It's too loud, and it's a emptier machine, and it's... Businesses that work with tools. 3) Of course, businesses where there is no light at all or where they work under special artificial light. 4) More than half a day's work is at 20. Workplaces after 00. 5) The workplaces where they work directly to high temperature. 6) Businesses in excess and continuous physical effort." Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0277par0541	We invite our fellow members.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0278par0542	Sir, this is our friends from the press.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0277par0543	Mr. President, we can't participate because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0279par0544	Yes, and since the Commission has not been in the motion for the most part, I'm dismissing the motion. There are two motions on article 1 that I'm going to read and process: It's the 1st draft of the current bill. On the matter of Article 60, we propose that citizens who are less than one third in the first joke of Article 60 should be replaced as citizens whose testimony is less than 50%. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Hasan Ören Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Kamer Young Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of "in three months from the first record date" be removed from the substance text of Article No. 510, which has been changed to Article 1 in the framework of the Law on Change in Some Laws under the Common Health Insurance Act and General Health Insurance Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Ali Öz Enver Erdem Rusar Demirel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0280par0559	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0279par0560	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0281par0561	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0279par0562	Rusar Demirel, MP of Eskişehir, is demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0282par0564	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, there's a pretty good paragraph in this law, except for the part where we want a change in our motion. It is one of the preferences of the National Movement Party, which, of course, all of us would approve, support, but is on the basis of more than three months' worth of care, for victims of the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women, regardless of social security. But I want to say something else. On December 14, 2011, Mr. Faruk Çelik Bey had a speech. He's talking now, I don't know if he can hear, but he says on December 14th, Mr. Secretary: As of January 1, 2012, 74 million of our citizens are covered by general health insurance. On December 14, 2011, Mr. Huseyin Manisa MP of Justice and Development Party Manisa Goditverdi stated this unsolicited law on May 18, 2012. The opening address of the Princes' Social Security Centre for the Manisa Social Security Foundation is for Mr. Godverdi. ▪ Everyone has the right to social security now. From foreign citizens in our country -- I think he means these students -- until our newborns -- with no income from their parents -- in the first paragraph -- everyone went under the government's social security umbrella on May 18, 2012. I'm saying this must be cheating on a citizen based on a law that hasn't been passed, but there's more, it says, as of the end of 2011, 62,804,409 of our citizens are covered by insurance. Now, today -- with your votes coming out -- according to this law, we're taking everyone under the age of 18. Turkey normally has about 25 million populations under 18 years of age. How much of this was in the containment field, outside of the scope, which is in the area of coverage of the $62 million. More than he said, we're trying to make a law like that today, we still don't understand. The numbers don't match anyway. I think the government's accounts are worth over 74 million when they're calculating national revenues. The U.S. announced the other day, Turkey says over 80 million. There were no objections from the government. We don't know who the 6 million is based on. So, Mr. Congressman goes on to say that 84 percent of our population, which is 774 million, 724, 269, is covered by social security. So why are we making this law today? This law has already been passed. You, Mr. Secretary, told me on December 14, 2011 that as of January 1, 2012, everyone was covered. Mr. Congressman, the Vice President confirmed it on May 18, 2012 in Manisa, and we passed such a law, and everyone said it was covered. So, what are we doing today? It's not possible for us to understand this, but I think you can. I want to say something else, while I'm up here, this IMF thing is on the agenda. As of 2002, the state debt is $64.5 billion. From 2002 to today, the government has profited 38 billion dollars from privatisation, 21 billion dollars from selling real estate to foreigners. You know, when you add it up, it pays off all 2002. I'm curious, and I'm asking: what was the external debt made of today over $500 billion, and what was taken? Beyond that, Mr. Secretary mentioned the IMF himself here, and the members of his party mentioned it. We have entered the European Union one day tomorrow, and it can be confirmed by the number I gave to the IMF that the money in the IMF will return to the fireworks in broad daylight. Beyond that, there's a number being given today. The unemployment rate of women paid and paid in agriculture has risen from 82.3% to 89 per cent, Mr. Secretary. You never bring up this situation with women in agriculture, but I want to end it by saying something else. TÜİK says that 61 per cent of the population in Turkey is in serious financial trouble. He can't afford to live on his own. I'm talking 61 percent of the population, lawmakers. I wonder what our last number is. We'd appreciate it if a minister explained that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0283par0572	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit05spe0284par0573	Thank you. I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0284par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There was not enough decision on the 1st article of the Law Bill 460 rows to vote on the motion of Eskişehir MP Ruzar Demirel and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. It's the 1st draft of the current bill. The article states that citizens whose statement is less than one third in the first joke of Article 60 shall be replaced in the form of citizens who are less than 50%. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0285par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0284par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0286par0014	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0284par0015	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0287par0017	Mr. President, I'm going to talk to you about the motion, which was actually rejected because of the lack of a majority of the Commission. Minister, how many people pay social security benefits in Turkey? How many of them have retired abroad, how many have retired abroad and how many have not paid social security benefits, who are they? For example, I'm a congressman, why don't you take it from me? Pity, isn't it a sin for the people you take? If I'm working, if I'm retiring, if I'm doing another job, if I'm doing another job, if I'm getting another fee, if I'm getting a pension, if I'm getting a pension, it's an equality principle for you to cut social security from me.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0288par0019	We'll take it, sir, no misunderstandings.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0289par0020	I'll take it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0287par0021	You're not taking it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0289par0022	How can it not be taken? He's taking it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0287par0023	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0290par0024	Do you know or does he?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0287par0025	Yeah, I know all about it. Minister, how much is this? What's the 15 percent bonus from people who get 800 liras, 700 liras, 600 lira pensions, Mr. Secretary? Is it worth it? A congressman just told me, you're bringing in peace. Instead of 2% of the time, everyone knows that most of these coins, in particular, are not legally earned. Take it to a higher number than 2%, get it out of here, Mr. Secretary, it's a shame for these people. Two: we don't agree with you on anything, especially those who are of age, Mr. Secretary. Well, I certainly don't want the roof to get damaged on social security -- let's agree here once -- and I never want the roof to break, but there are solutions to that, Mr. Secretary. One: his day is up, he hasn't paid his premiums in years, five years, six years, and I'll stress, his bonus day is full, but he can't pay his premiums, he can't pay his premiums because he's not working, and he'll retire tomorrow morning if he pays his bonuses, Mr. Secretary. But these people are desperate, you need to give them a hand; come, help these people. Your Social Security Agency is interviewing a lot of banks, spreading it to 24 months, cutting 5 per cent per month, allowing these people to retire by paying their social security premiums will never damage your roof, Mr. Secretary. Come help these people; it won't hurt your roof, it won't damage the roof of Social Security. My friend, I'm talking, you talk later! Mr. Necati, I'm asking you. Mr. Secretary, I'm talking about hungry people. Mr. Necati, I'm sorry, I'm talking to hungry people.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0291par0032	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0287par0033	Mr. Secretary, his day is up, his bonus is up, and his bonus day is up, but he owes me a bonus. Come, let's work together, find a 24-month bank loan, collect your bonuses, retire these people. I'm not asking you to do anything, I'm not asking the institution to make a sacrifice, I'm not asking the agency to do anything. Two: Mr. Secretary, again, two years away from retirement, day's up, two years to go, bonus day payment. And cut them off from your future salary by paying 20 per cent, 30 per cent. I don't want anything from the agency again, no harm from the institution, but it's your job to find a solution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's figure this out, Mr. Secretary. These people are hungry. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0292par0039	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman The Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance shall be replaced in accordance with Article 2 of Laws on Some Laws, which shall be replaced by Article No. 510 in Article 6 of Article 61, which shall be changed in the form of these persons. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Enver Erdem Erkan Akçay Ali Öz Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0293par0050	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0292par0051	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0294par0052	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0292par0053	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0295par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 2 of the Law Bill 460. I salute the High Council. The motion we've made has been intended to make matter more understandable, and if accepted, it will be understood better. Congressmans, of course, along with this law, a bag of laws is being discussed and some laws are being changed here. Of course, at the beginning of this, I would like to bring up some of the issues related to health. At the moment, all health care workers have very different expectations from such laws or the government. See, here's the March 14th Medical Day, May 14th Pharmaceuticals Day, May 12th, 16th Nurse's Week. But, of course, when we consider it this way, it's also a fact that none of these are celebrated as a holiday and that people are in great distress. The question I just asked in chapter one... is that we should consider May 14th World Pharmaceutical Day... as to whether our pharmacists are having a holiday or whether our physicians are having a holiday. Our pharmacists aren't having a holiday, and none of our paramedics are having a holiday. Pharmaceuticals are in a lot of trouble at the point of not closing their pharmacy. However, Mr. Secretary, they have stated that the pharmaceuticals' issues, all of their problems, have been expressed and that they are constantly being studied in this direction. However, let's not forget that the President of the Pharmaceutical Union also had a heart attack while discussing these matters with the Minister. I mean, in the end, pharmacists are in a lot of trouble at the point of opening or closing their pharmacy in very heavy conditions. Our pharmacist brothers and sisters can't afford the paper money they almost made in prescriptions, so the price of medicine is too low. So they say that we want to be given $1 per bottle of money per drug in prescriptions. So we have to give it to these people. Besides, public discounts, they're very seriously bored, and they're very seriously upset. This way, and public discounts need to be improved at some points. Besides, there are constant changes in drug prices, so they face stock damage. The factory will pay for the stock damage. Although it has been said, the factories have not been able to pay for it, and the stock damage is now under way. Besides, there are also serious problems, especially in the medula production systems. At these points, we have to express that our pharmacists are in great trouble and that both of our citizens are being victims. Also, with new regulations in the recent public hospitals units, pharmacies have come to a position almost differently connected to the head nurse outside of their profession. This violates the working peace, lawmakers. In this way, a study must be carried out. I mean, pharmacists need to be evaluated in a different way, not in a nurse's way, like the other medical staff, but in that way, they need to have professional peace. In addition, the number of pharmaceutical schools in our country is increased every day. This means that our pharmacists are also in great distress, as the number of pharmacists is increasing, and the increase of pharmacies is also showing the victims of pharmacists who are not already making money. But we also have to address the problems of our physicians in particular. Many physicians now have major problems with retirement. Mr. Secretary, in his earlier speech, we expect one-and-a-half physicians to do the work. But it's true that many of our current physicians are particularly interested in restoring their broken pride and destroyed dignity. You ask these physicians, of course, to do some work at a health centre, you ask them to make sacrifices, but medicine is already a group of people who want to make sacrifices. Therefore, from time to time, our physicians have experienced severe attacks from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Health. But, daughter-in-law, let's give back the disappointed pride of our physicians, their destroyed dignity, and they at least have the desire to retire in this way, or do they want work on the essence to be done, and they expect to be done. But then he says that you doctors can expect to work not in the form of one, but in the form of one and a half physicians, and I look forward to your support of our motion, and I salute the assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0296par0068	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 72nd Amendment to Act 5510, which has been replaced by Article 3 of the framework of the current Law Bill 460 rows. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. "The commission consists of nine members, including two members and two members representing the Ministry, Finance, Health and Development Ministry, Treasury Undersecretary, University healthcare servers and private health care servers. The commission makes its decisions with a simple majority. Commission decisions are published in the Official Gazette. More than one subcommittee can be established according to the types of health care that may be required by the Commission. The commission's transactions to the secretary are carried out by the institution." Mahir Ünal Ramazan Can Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ashraf Stone Shuay Albay İsmail Aydın Ali Ercoshkun İsmail Tamer Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd draft of the current 460 rows. Article 2. We offer and propose that his statement be added to his paragraph, representing private hospitals, and representing pharmacists. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Özgür Special Haydar Akar Muharrem Light Mighty Skymen Reminder Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "private hospitals" in Article 3 of the 460 Orders Numbered Bill be removed from the text of the substance. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the clauses of the "Determined in Turkish" in the second joke of the framework 3 article of the Law on Change in Some Laws under the Common Health Insurance Act and the General Health Insurance Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Enver Erdem Reşat Right Ali Öz Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0297par0100	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0296par0101	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0298par0102	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0296par0103	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0299par0104	I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 3 of the Law Bill 460. I salute the High Council. Congressmans, of course, this motion raises the issue of contributions. Here's the thing: There are serious problems with contributions. Mr. Secretary is trying to defend it at this point, but look, today, our retired brothers and sisters following the meeting of this law are trying to explain to us that when they go to private health organizations, they encounter practices in a very different way. In fact, other than that, some of the contributions there are virtually insufferable when you go to public institutions or university institutions again. Congressmans, the fact is that we're trying to get contributions from the green card or even from our retired people. This isn't right. The person with the green card, or the person who can't pay his own general health insurance, let alone their contribution, is already having trouble making ends meet. Besides, our retired people in particular have a lot of problems. Retired people don't have a serious increase in salary. However, the Anti-Istabulary Law was adopted. When it was called, we can't say that the Intigation Law was fully removed, so at the moment, there has not been a required Law of Intivistration. At this point, it also increases the problem when pensioners are already suffering from income problems, and it also increases their burden, because most of our pensioners are over a certain age, so they're now going to the doctor's every month, and they're going to the doctor's every month. Another aspect of the job, though, is that it's also a freak that the MPs, especially those private health care agencies in health care, are determined by the Ministry of Health for their staff and additional fees. There's talk of free market economies all over the world. He wakes up in a free market economy, and here we are identifying the staff ourselves. How many physicians will work? Or how many nurses will work? The Ministry of Health finds him, and then you can't get an additional nurse for these health organizations, or you can't get an additional doctor. This is not the right approach. Of course, the fact that additional fees have been detected by the Ministry of Health or by the Ministry of Social Security, at some point, creates a counterresponsibility, a picture facing the situation. However, let's remove all of this here, and let people identify their own staff, or do they want to hire three physicians, let them hire three doctors, whether they want to hire five physicians or five physicians. Therefore, I would like to express that we must make certain changes in these laws. In addition, of course, the fact is that our physicians are in serious trouble with the Full - Day Law. Look, now, we're trying to give you some opportunities for our physicians at our university hospitals to work off-hours again, but we don't say that those opportunities are too adequate. I mean, how are you going to get that patient examined for half an hour, an hour, when you give the doctor about $17 or $20 for every patient who's not on duty? So this is a different situation. There must be some improvements in this way, too. So I'm guessing there's about 1,700 college professors here, and if he's out of the hospital right now, this approach that you're going to bring back to 1,700 people who are going to go back to college hospitals or go back to education and teaching, which I don't think is going to happen. Therefore, improvements must be made this way. So you can only satisfy your physician if at least 50 percent of the money, or at least a certain amount of it, is given in order to satisfy themselves in a normal way. Although it is a fact that, at this moment, in our country, almost any health-related problem is being dealt with by physicians. Thus, the main element of recent violence against the physician is this, which means that all kinds of problems in health are offered to the physician or to the health worker, and therefore, from time to time, violence or even death. So we have to say, let's create a working environment for the physician with the rights to his retirement, with the honor of medicine. That's the only time I'm trying to express that physicians can work better and work more selflessly, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0300par0112	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 3 of the 460 Order Numbered Bill, we propose and propose that the declaration of "private hospitals" be removed from the text of matter. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0301par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0300par0120	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0302par0121	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0300par0122	I'm reading the reason: The right to access health care, which is one of the basic rights of the public, is highly violated due to the commercialized health care services in our country today. Given that private hospitals are more profitable institutions than public service agencies, the fact that private hospitals are part of the commission will be a problem for basic rights. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd draft of the current 460 rows. We offer and propose that the article's testimony be added to 2 paragraphs, representing private hospitals, as representing pharmacists. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0303par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0300par0132	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0304par0133	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0300par0134	Free Special, Manisa MP who wants to speak on the motion...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0305par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 3 of the current bill. First of all, we celebrate Pharmaceutical Week (May 14th), which includes the Day of Pharmaceuticals. Here, on behalf of our colleagues, we welcome the congratulations from all political parties in the House, the pharmaceutical MPs, but we believe 30,000 pharmacists, who work at 24,000 pharmacies, know their problems from this great Parliament and deserve more than the good will to repeat the troubles in this matter. Here today, Mr. Secretary has just made two approaches that we will never accept. One of them is a question of turnout. For one thing, Mr. Secretary, it's important to remind the patient that all over the world, outside of Turkey, that the participation share of the needle is made to sink into its social security system and to ensure that it is aware of the cost, but the only participation in Turkey should be shared in the patient's cost, some of its treatment should be claimed by you. It has come to a point where it should be said that it should be said and increased every day. Mr. Secretary uses such expressions that we can fix it by what, it's really troubling. It says: "There is a 50 percent turnout in the world, 80 percent of the world. " Yes, friends, we would like to remind the Minister that there is a 50% turnout in the world. The government put 50% participation in vitamins you never paid for. If you look at it, the percentage of vitamins in Turkey is 100 per cent. Now, you can't say that there are countries here that have taken more than we do, taking bets on their participation in vitamins from around the world. In addition, there are 600 per cent turnouts in Turkey, since you charge $12 for cough syrup, $3 for prescription money, $19 for equivalent drug difference. What do you say to that, then? I'll tell you this: when you came to power, there was some kind of turnout, 10% from the pension, 20% from the employee, 0 percent from the report. My colleagues at the pharmacies in the living room know that, with a weighted average of 12 percent. Now there's this turnout, and you've brought something called the participation fee, five in the state, 12 in private. You charge $3 per prescription, you get the equivalent difference, you get the cheapest drug, you get the cheapest money, you get the 10 per cent of the money, so if she was watching it on TV, she'd say: every time she goes, the government doesn't pay for the medicine, you pay for the cheapest, you get what they say is the difference. You're getting a special hospital rate. The Prime Minister shouted everywhere, saying, "There will be no difference between these private hospitals." Then he went up to 10 percent, and he went up to 30, and he went up to 70, and he went up to 100. Today you transfer the authority to increase it to 200 per cent to the Council of Ministers. You get an additional $1 per box. You're getting a different rate of study. You don't pay for every study written. There's a price on it, it's like a trick to force the hospital to do it at that price, but the hospital says if you want this study, you're going to pay as much as this. I came to see you early, and you're getting a different fee. The patient went to the psychiatrist, went to the hospital, couldn't find a cure; he spent the night, barely waited for the morning, why did you come? Then you'll have to pay the full medical bill. You call the patient Mr. Minister. Preliminary examination fee... says the doctor: "We can't afford to waste time, I want this MRI tomorrow. Come on, Saturday, Sunday, give me 300 lira off, then go to the doctor. Don't you have any friends? Don't patients complain to you about it every day? You've issued something called the Islamic Health Service, asking for a fee from the person who asked for it. There is such a thing as laparoscopic surgery. Three holes will be drilled here, easily removed, quickly healed. No, if you pay for the difference, you'll take advantage of it, otherwise we'll be able to use it all the way across, and we'll get the gallbladder the old-fashioned way. Arthroscopic surgery, a small hole in the knee. Okay, you'll benefit if you pay for the difference, but if you don't pay for this modern method, we'll smash your kneecaps, we'll operate the old-fashioned way, you'll crawl for 45 days. Know that you brought these and if you're going to have an argument about this, let's get out of here, look the citizen in the eye and talk about it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0306par0147	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 72nd Amendment to Act 5510, which has been replaced by Article 3 of the framework of the current Law Bill 460 rows. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. "The commission consists of nine members, including two members and two members representing the Ministry, Finance, Health and Development Ministry, Treasury Undersecretary, University healthcare servers and private health care servers. The commission makes its decisions with a simple majority. Commission decisions are published in the Official Gazette. More than one subcommittee can be established according to the types of health care that may be required by the Commission. The commission's transactions to the secretary are carried out by the institution." Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0307par0155	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0306par0156	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0308par0157	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0309par0158	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0306par0159	I'm reading the reason: The statement is being made clear, and the Act 5510 is being corrected because hospitals are passed as health care servers. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Article 4 of the 460 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the text of the article, and that the second joke be changed into "double" a double." İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Demir Steel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of the "second joke" in the framework of Article 4 of the Law on Changes in Some Laws under the Common Health Insurance Act and General Health Insurance Act, we propose and propose that the declarations of "one" have been changed in the form of "two" and be removed from the substance text. Enver Erdem Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the 4th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which is currently in session, be removed from the Charter of the 4th Amendment to some Laws. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Kazım Kurt Aydın Ayan Ayyadın Musa Pine Rahmi Detour of Love Müslim Sarı Bkent Kuşoğlu Kadir Gökmen Oğut Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0310par0186	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0306par0187	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0311par0188	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0306par0189	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0312par0190	Mr. Kadir Gökmen Reminder.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0306par0191	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0313par0193	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and Article 4 of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. The 4th article of the bill, Social Insurance Act 5510, and the 73rd Article of the General Health Insurance Act, is required to make significant changes to limit the access of insured patients to health care. In this case, general health insurance contradicts the social state principle from the basic principles of the Constitution. The financing of health care is due to the insured, which has paid a substantial premium. In addition to public hospitals and public university hospitals, the additional fee is onefold increased by all health care providers who have contracts with the SGK, including the hospitals of the foundations. Insurance persons applying to private hospitals, foundation universities hospitals, private medical centers, clinics such as health clinics can be paid twice as much as the cost of health care in the Health Appliance Report. The additional fee available will be determined by the Council of Ministers. This amount will reach up to 200 per cent if the bill is passed at about 30 per cent of the health care cost and then 90 per cent later. In accordance with the principle of public interest, the creation of medical schools and professors, as recommended by the vast majority, physicians and specialists, scientific research and advanced health care conditions, can be created in place of a more reasonable system, instead of a system where the needed insurance providers have no money or have too much access to their circumstances. Since he has arrived in health care, he has been trying to save the situation by raising costs sixfold, in a sense, health care costs, not particularly medical treatment, but the fact that he is responsible for putting the public under-insurrection on the condition that he is responsible for. Dear lawmakers, the real problems of this country are the problems of workers, workers, pensioners. However, the government has turned its back on them, and it has not yet resolved its affairs. It's not enough to count the problems our shopkeeper has experienced. The most important can be that I can't compete with randomly opened AVM and supermarkets in the center of the city, that all kinds of advantages are used for larges, that they're not used for small businesses, that the tax load is too heavy for small businesses, that it's put into a bloc for the smallest loans, and the collection problem in the checks on top is that it's not enough. All this weight is drowning the tradesmen. Our police friends in charge of the security of this country have serious problems. The wages they receive do not reflect retirement, especially because their wages are low and their compensations are high. Police are afraid to retire because their pensions are too low. A civil servant works forty hours a week while a police officer works seventy-two hours a week, while a police officer works eighty-four hours a week from 14 hours a day on average. They ask the government to set right their rights as soon as possible. Again, the problems of our petty officers lead them to suicides. Another major problem is our chiefs. The problems of our mayors have increased exponentially with the transition of the e-government system, as has not been dealt with so far. The Prime Minister, who said his words, is aware of the problems of our elders? Those who are oppressed by the seal of the state, as the chosen ones. Although the costs are high, the low salary, the payment of the insurance premiums, is not suitable for Turkey in the 21st century. The leaders who used to know everything in the neighborhood don't know what's going on anymore, they just work like a post office. Even the AKP's agenda does not include the problems, let alone the workers and workers. We have also repeatedly expressed the difficulties of subcontractors - unsecured, uninsured, and often without pay. The workers are made to sign papers that they will not receive by showing death and consenting to malaria. The painting doesn't change in any industry when it comes to subcontractors. These are the problems that need to be addressed, the lawmakers need to be addressed. As long as you can't please this country's production, offer it a life worthy of human dignity, none of the legislation you've brought in and brought in will achieve its goal. Have a good evening. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0314par0204	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of the "second joke" in the framework of Article 4 of the Law on Change in Some Laws and General Health Insurance Act, we propose and propose that the phrase "one" be replaced in the form of "two" and that the declarations be removed from the substance text. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0315par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0314par0212	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0316par0213	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0314par0214	Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0317par0216	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the motion we have made on Article 4/4 of the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 460, and on the amendment to some Laws. I salute the High Council. Social Security Agency bonus: During the period when people are active, money is being cut off under the name of the insurance premium. What's the real purpose of this cut money? When people retire, they will receive a salary and benefit from health services. We do cutbacks, we do it in front of people, from their wages. Are we done with this? We're not getting enough of this. You're going to the hospital for an examination, turnout, prescription, turnout, early examination, turnout. I'm afraid we're always bringing a different kind of burden to citizens at the point of their healthcare costs. Participants are increasing. People are really victims of these turnouts. First you have to hand it over and see that people are in trouble. In terms of substance, the difference in private hospitals... Dear friends, when you take someone close to you to private hospitals, when you're going to perform a serious operation, even if you give them a full month's salary, you'll find it difficult to cover the difference in private hospitals. So it's not the right approach to increase the difference from 100 percent to 200 percent, even though the groups of hospitals are classified, but let's not ignore this: the basic source of income, its basic client, is people, where it's fundamentally dealing with, in what phase do you, as a state, contribute to them in the creation of private hospitals? We're not discussing this. In fact, I believe that's one of the important issues we need to discuss. You're not in the making of private hospitals, you're not in the right place, you're not contributing to their medical equipment, you haven't extended your hand as a government to these private hospitals, especially at the healthcare center, and now you're making it a trick to increase a new contribution to the citizens' back to finance private hospitals themselves. This is not the right approach. It's really bad in medical schools. See, from the beginning, the Full Day Law is a law that must be passed. However, in college, you may have neglected the practical part of your medical education, especially if you do not give a separate status to lecturers who are particularly interested in education. Thus, this country will experience its distress in the coming hours. In medical schools, it's not an advantage that you give lecturers after the end of their shift -- a very small increase -- to ensure that they get a new patient there. Let's just say that once this bill has been passed, it'll come back to the agenda. How many of the students who left the universities will return to the universities because a different model of the Full - Day Law is being implemented? That won't be possible. At the same time, professors at the university will definitely come to the prices you recommended and look at the patients again. They will not use the expression. Therefore, we have to re-examine the medical care of professors at university, foundation hospitals, educational hospitals, medically related, health-related training facilities. As long as we don't do this, this law that we've passed won't do any good. This would not be the right approach, just as the difference in private hospitals from the beginning would not produce a quality health presentation. And let's not forget that the citizens are looking at private hospitals for profit. They're going, they're doing a lot of examinations, and the doctor says: "You're going to get surgery." He says: "I don't trust this, they do it to make money." He has to go and do the same studies in public hospitals. Which, in general, brings additional burdens to our country's health budget. He also says you should not ignore it, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0318par0224	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Article 4 of the 460 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the text of the article, and that the second joke be changed into "double" a double." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0319par0231	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0318par0232	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0233	Mr. President, he needs a brief explanation, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0318par0234	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0235	Now, dear friends, there's been an intense assessment of these participation shares in particular, and a brief information has just been asked by the members of the group's vice presidents: I present that information: a system that exists for 10 per cent pensioners, 20 per cent pensioners, a system that has existed from a long time ago, right. There's a 20% turnout on medical supplies, 10% for pensioners, 20% for employees. Step one, so there's no turnout for examinations at the family clinic. Second and third digits, which is the part of the examination at public hospitals and university hospitals for $5, and at private hospitals for 12 euros. Now, when we look at drugs, because we have 65 percent chronic diseases, 65 percent of them do not take their turnout in drugs.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0321par0239	But the first one you say doesn't get picked up, and the other pens don't?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0240	Let's know that number first, one.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0321par0241	The first pen doesn't go in, the others don't go in or out?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0242	Excuse me. Two: now...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0321par0244	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0245	Sir, look, I listened to you. Why are you having such a hard time? Now you're caught.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0321par0247	No, we'll talk about it then...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0248	Look, I'm giving you an example. Now, you see, in Germany, 8.9 per cent of pensioners pay bonuses to the health deposit box. From who? Retired; that's one.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0322par0250	What's his pension in Germany?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0251	Two: 10 euros per three months in Germany for standing treatments, but 10 euros per day for patients who are in bed; in Turkey, there is no participation, no attendance from patients who are in bed. The Swiss annual...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0323par0253	Are the living conditions the same, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0254	Guys, you asked for a comparison, and I'm telling you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0324par0255	Now, you're mixing apples with pears, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0256	Switzerland, 194 euros a year, 6.8 euros a day. Sweden is 11 to 22 euros per procedure for stand-up treatments.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0325par0257	What about their pensions there?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0258	Sweden, 8 to 9 euros a day.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0326par0259	What is the national income of Sweden?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0260	Portugal, 2 euros for stand-up treatments and the turnout for drugs in France ranges from 30 per cent to 70 per cent.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0327par0261	You're talking about countries with $90,000 per person income.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0262	Now, what do we get as a turnout?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0328par0263	What kind of logic is that? Does it fit your conscience? How much is the minimum salary in France, Minister?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0264	For an institution with a budget of 182 billion dollars, the total annual income from the turnout shares is $2 billion as of 2012.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0328par0265	Is that politics? Do you think we're stupid?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0320par0266	See, we're talking about $182 billion in budgets, 2 billion in turn.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0329par0267	Mr. Secretary, compare them to Bangladesh!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0330par0268	Mr. Secretary, this account didn't hold up.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0331par0269	Mr. Secretary, I understand...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0332par0270	I'll give you my last word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0331par0271	You haven't told me if you agree with the motion yet.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0332par0272	I'll give you my last sentence. Now, Mr. Free has just said something nice: the contribution is to create awareness of the cost. Just like that, Turkey is implementing a human-based turnout to create cost awareness, whereas other countries, the countries that we're describing, are applying their participation as an income share. We disagree, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0333par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0334par0276	Mr. President, when Mr. Secretary made his statements, he used the statement that you were captured by a statement I made. This expression is a direct taunt. A defector gets caught, and we do legislature. I'd like to make a statement on the matter.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0333par0277	You're free to go, Mr. Special. Here, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0334par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, let's say, for once, that a minister should not be able to use or use a statement that you were captured by law enforcement. That's not acceptable in a democracy.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0335par0283	You say what you want to say...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0334par0284	The capture is a term that can be used in the case of a person who has a flaw being proven clearly and clearly. Whereas I, Mr. Secretary, if there's going to be a capture, it's clear how you just expressed your contribution to 85 per cent of the world... when I told him about the 50 per cent participation in drugs he never paid for, if there's one catch, it's Mr. Minister's capture in front of Congress. Mr. Secretary's figures are that something is expressed here, directly, with apples and pears being collected. The total turnout, he initially said, is trying to make it look small by collecting the ones taken from the first one, whose name is participant, by proportioning it to the total SGK budget. However, the sum of all the figures is: The size of the wall in which the pre-AKP accession shares were 12 per cent of the drug spending, while the number I counted earlier this year reached 54 per cent this year as a proportion of drug expenditures, the amount of money that the patient had paid from his pocket, the amount of money that he had paid for by the time he returned. First, Mr. Secretary, let him sit down and save on these numbers, and then start, compared to the total budget of the SGK, which is the sum of one of the participation shares, which is the sum of 2 billion of that enormous SGK, which pays wages, which has to do many other services. Now we've seen who's caught, my friends.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0336par0288	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0334par0289	Yes, Mr. Secretary, I'm waiting for an answer, I'm picking on you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0337par0290	You're the midwife now, Mr. Secretary, you've been captured. You're the midwife, you're up.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0336par0296	I'm reading the reason: The capacity to price twice as much as the health care pricing commission's set figures will pave the way for further commercialisation of healthcare services, bringing health into a meta form irreversibly. At the same time, the additional wage ceiling for health care servers at higher education institutions outside of office has been determined to be twice the minimum wage, and the aim is to address these problems with change. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on item five: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to replace the phrase "insides" in the joke added after the first joke of Article 5510 and Article 81 of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws with the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the provisions and the declaration of the provisions of the 5th article of the underlying 460 rows of the bill. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Demir Steel T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 5th draft of the current 460 rows of legislation. In the second joke added, the Council of Ministers is authorized to determine the cities and districts and the duration of the implementation, instead of the term. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mahmut Tanal Malik Ecder Özdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0338par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0336par0323	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0339par0324	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0336par0325	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0340par0327	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm the one who knows how to thank every positive thing that's been done. At the beginning of this clause, I find the measures taken against workers working abroad to be extremely positive. Turkish contractors are doing very important work abroad. Now... since the 80s, I knew I was a banker; I was a banker then; in Libya, Arabia, Russia, Kazakhstan, all around you, they fought very hard without any support. I bow before these people with respect. They hired workers, they took men from the country, they took supplies from the country. Therefore, if Turkish contractors take workers abroad from Turkey, in this department, I find it extremely positive that they will be given a certain amount of insurance premiums; it is clear, it is clear. Now, the other issue, my friends, is another, the expression of the 5th article, which is being run by 10 people and over it, which is insured. This is 5084, folks. This is 5084, which you used to call out for days, which ended at 31/12, which was applied to some provinces, but will not be long. Five months have passed, and five months have passed, and you bring back the 5084. Thank you, it's necessary, I find it positive to support production in Turkey. However, dear friends, the Promotion Act in Turkey, which was later brought in, you know, six districts... there are cities in the 1st district, which have no incentives, but there are counties in that 1st district that are far further back than a district in the 6th district. For example, there are some counties in Konya, but there are some counties in Konya, which are far behind our specific counties in the 6th district as economic activity. In this respect, the Council of Ministers is authorized here, dear friends. The bride is of interest to all of you, with all of you... I'll give you an example from Gaziantep: Besni Adıyaman is a district of Adıyaman. A factory is built between Besni (Besni) and your car. Then your car comes, but there's a difference between your car and Besni so much that the factory in Besni, in that 1km, has an advantage over the kilowatts of electricity, and your car can't be a factory. That's not fair. In certain counties, whether it's in the region or in the 6th district of Şanlıurfa, Mr. Minister... I mean, there's an organized industrial area in Şanlıurfa, there's investments coming in, but there are districts in which there are no investments going in, even though it's the 6th district, Mr. Minister. Come, since it's clear here... the Council of Ministers is authorized to implement and determine the deadline, my friends. Let's make a change here. Manisa, for example, has so many counties... that Manisa has an industrial district, all kinds of industries in Manisa. In particular, for example, it's Demirci. None of the districts above have industrial movements; it's called Manisa. Come, let us, again, give authority to the Council of Ministers in the Parliament's will here, and let the Council of Ministers be in charge again, but let the Council of Ministers here decide some counties -- not in cases, but in counties -- let the Council of Ministers decide. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0341par0333	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the provisions and the declaration of the provisions of the 5th article of the underlying 460 rows of the bill. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0342par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0341par0341	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0343par0342	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0341par0343	I'm reading the reason: The differences in socioeconomic development occur between the regions as well as between the districts. Regional or borough-based incentives also lead to boosting economic gaps in the region. A balanced socioeconomic development between the change and the districts is intended to be captured. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to replace the phrase "insides" in the joke added after the first joke of Article 5510 and Article 81 of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws with the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0344par0352	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0341par0353	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0345par0354	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0341par0355	Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0346par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on Article 5 of Law Bill 460 that is being discussed, and I salute the High Council. To explain our motive for the motion, we think it would be better to apply this incentive as part of the counties instead of the provinces in order to address regional development differences. Many counties of our major cities in socioeconomic development are far behind. It is a fact that there are often major differences in development between the districts and the districts. Therefore, we believe that this encouragement should be in both the fulfillment of its purpose and its right to be in the district area. You may have made such a decision from the government, Mr. Secretary, but I personally believe that you will regret it in the future, because I truly believe that the amendment motions are motions for the right application to explain the truth. The reason for the substance is that a five-point reduction to bonuses has already been envisioned on the premium paid for insurance workers working abroad. In addition, as part of the implementation of regional employment, the Council of Ministers says it has been given the authority to determine the levels of reductions, reductions by 6 points, and provinces to be applied according to the Sosoeconomic Development Index. The continuation of the premium incentive in 5084, which expires in these regulations, should be forwarded to the districts and districts, in other words, in areas that need encouragement, rather than incentives everywhere in the country. The main thing is to consider it. In our major cities of socioeconomic development, I've just said the same things, and we still see many more boroughs falling behind. Minister, in my speech earlier, I made it very clear that the employment indicators in particular in your interest are not going well. The unemployment has been announced today, and it's been a really stressful time. From time to time, I've seen talks of peace of existence being discussed here. Such a thing came out in 2008, it is true, but by 2008, you cleaned it up. The Deputy Prime Minister says there's about 150 billion dollars out there, which, I think, means that his $30 or $50 billion is in U.S. treasury bonds. This was done in 2008, and if it continues after that, that means that it was somehow transferred abroad during the AKP period. And since the Deputy Prime Minister has made that very clear, he seems to be following well, and he seems to know well. This needs to be made clear to the public. You think that the economic developments in the world are not good, that the money outside of Turkey should be brought to Turkey to take advantage of it, and that it should be economically relaxed, but at one point, I think it's some sort of money that was smuggled out in the AKP period after 2008. Why do I think? Because you're saying to the people who are going to the PKK, let them go however they are. You're saying, "Let them come, just as they have gone." Who is he, or is he or is he or is he not, needs to be understood very clearly. Besides, I've just asked your people if they're involved in the Oslo talks. Really, I want a minister of the Republic of Turkey to come to this stand and make a clear and clear statement that the PKK's time spent on the mountain in Oslo talks will not count as retirement rights, and I will be relieved. Otherwise, I'm not going to ask Mr. Yalçin Akdoğan, et cetera. You're in the government, and if you don't know it, the people we sent to the State... have discussed it there. I don't think it'd be nice to hear it from the audio tomorrow, somewhere else. You're a minister of the government. That's what's going on in your field. I want to relax here with what you're saying. Please come and find this statement here. Thank you, I'm paying my respects. I'm waiting for backup on our motion. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0347par0367	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article. I'm going to read number one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the second and third jokes of the Interim Article 49, which is added to Act 5510 with the Frame 6 of Law Bill 460 rows. "Before the date of the execution of this clause, interest rates related to the interest brought against the institution due to bills and additional documents delivered to the institution by health care servers before 16/01/2012 are abandoned if the plaintiff waives the case. For the verbs involved in this clause, the amount collected for interest applied prior to the date of the application of this clause is not subject to extradition or restitution. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Gültır Can SmurfÜnal Haci Bayram Türkoğlu İsmail Aydın Orhan Karasayar Mehmet Akyürek Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 6th article of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of the current Social Insurance Act and General Health Insurance Act and the amendment to some Laws. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Enver Erdem The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Demir Steel Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0348par0396	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0347par0397	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0349par0398	Mr. President, a brief statement, if you'll excuse me in the last question.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0347par0399	Short, please, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0349par0400	Now, of course, the answer is requested, and the response is offensive when it is answered, so I beg you, because we have to answer because we have to. Now, here, it has been repeatedly expressed by all the authorities: Turkey has been given a will to get rid of the terror plague, to get out of this situation between blood and hatred, to regain the facility of sisterhood law, to strengthen our unity, our unity, and a distance is being taken. You respect it, you don't respect it, it's a line each party will decide for itself, and it'll tell people about it. But we were brothers in the past, we are brothers today, we will be brothers in the future. We follow a path and a line with understanding. Mr. Orator has just used a statement, such as "Sir, the people on the mountain, the people on the ridge, "a commitment to future social security." I consider it a disgrace to any Turkish Republic government, to any minister, to any practice. For him, I specifically state that it is not right to make such an accusation to any of the republic's governments. Thank you. We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0350par0406	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0351par0407	Well, isn't it about the job? It's in the headlines about hiring!
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0349par0408	Sir, look, there's absolutely no such thing.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0351par0409	How do you know that? I wish you'd sent a statement to the paper that you'd answer to the congressman here.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0349par0411	We did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0352par0412	I'm reading the reason: The expression "inadvertent payment" in the article reveals a very uncertain and open-ended situation. The change was intended to make the text of the law clearer and clearer. Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0353par0417	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Social Insurance Act 460 and the 6th Amendment of the General Health Insurance Act. I salute your high council. The purpose of our motion on Article 6 of the bill is to remove it from the draft text. Dear lawmakers, due to the absence of the bills and additional documents of health care servers in Article 6 of this bag law in three months' time in the law, the payment will be unregistered without interest. If interest is justified, you will be abandoned. If there is a collection of interest in cash or interest, it will be returned. It is tried. So you have to ask the Minister: What health care servers will be available under this arrangement? Who will not be given interest? To whom will interest debts be abandoned? To whom will these interest be returned? Why weren't these receipts and documents examined on time? Is it our duty as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to provide ease for those who are corrupt by taking the price of health care that he has not done? Mr. Secretary will have to answer these questions. Dear MPs, the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is to make general, equal, fair, right and necessary legal arrangements, but as with many regulations, the interests of individuals are at the forefront. The Minister, who heads the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, has many problems to address first. About 1,600,000 workers who work for subcontractors are employed in unsecured and unsecured environments without job guarantees. He is deprived of bonuses and social rights. He cannot benefit from a collective contract of employment. He can't benefit from severance pay. Although, again, contractors involved with about 200,000 employees do the same work, there are problems such as lack of assurances, lack of transfer rights, lack of opportunities to rise in office, lack of benefits from social benefits, lack of interagency access. Again, the poor and different salaries of about 10 million pensioners, problems such as the obligations of paying a contribution in health care, rather than using Parliament's energy to resolve these problems, is a pointless request and an arrangement to increase the contribution to private hospitals or to ensure that the state does not receive interest when it is unfairly paid back from the state. Therefore, we want this item removed from the draft text. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, we ask that this clause be removed because the minimum wager, subcontractor, worker, pensioner, pensioner, part of the source in the village's pockets should be filled with the contents of the private hospital owners' vault. Again, on February 21, 2013, I brought to you the victims of these employees, despite the court rulings of subcontractors working at the Roads Regional Managers, and even though they were approved by the Supreme Court. Mr. Minister of Transport said we're going to solve this problem. Today, our Minister of Labour and Social Security says we can solve this problem by paying their compensation. I mean, can you imagine, high-value lawmakers, saying we should pay severance pay for 10,000 workers working on the highways and leave them to unemployment and adversity. So, for a moment, let's empathize, let's put ourselves in their place, let's be afraid of God, by giving these people severance pay... and I asked the Minister: Mr. Secretary, would you agree if they put you out of government by giving you a year's salary? You won't take it. Then we'll solve this problem by giving these people seniority compensation. I say it's a very sad thing to say. Compliance of judicial decisions is a necessary thing according to the 138th Article of the Constitution, MPs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You have to do it the way the law tells you to do it. Therefore, I do not find it right to make an arrangement that has the meaning of benefiting someone in this 6th article, when there are such important problems. I salute your high council again late in the evening.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0354par0429	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the second and third jokes of the Interim Article 49, which is added to Act 5510 with the Frame 6 of Law Bill 460 rows. "Before the date of the execution of this clause, interest rates related to the interest brought against the institution due to bills and additional documents delivered to the institution by health care servers before 16/01/2012 are abandoned if the plaintiff waives the case. For the verbs involved in this clause, the amount collected for interest applied prior to the date of the application of this clause is not subject to extradition or restitution. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0355par0438	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0356par0439	Mr. President, while Mr. Secretary is speaking on behalf of the motion to dismiss, this motion states that if he gives the following information, he sees fit to accept it. Why January 16, 2012? And how much interest has been imposed on the institution so far? I'd appreciate it if he'd give me the information on this.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0354par0440	Yes, Mr. Secretary, do you agree with the motion? It's also information...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0357par0441	Sir, because the bills were delivered at 15, 16 dates were used on the 15th as the final delivery.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0356par0442	I mean, 2012 is only a problem with 15. Not February, not March, not June.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0357par0443	In the 16th month of 2012, the final invoices of 2011 were delivered, and the conclusion of the transactions that were left behind in the single but weighted reform process... as you asked, Mr. President, there's also a benefit in providing information about this: the expected amount of abandonment in 2006 is 790,876 euros, and the total interest in this amount is $395,438. As a result, 2006, 2007, 2008 totals 2 million 497 thousand.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0356par0444	So, two quadrillion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0357par0445	No, 2.5 trillion. The interest rate, in the old figure, is $1 trillion, 200 million, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0356par0447	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0357par0448	This extraordinary reform and interest in return to the Constitutional Court due to the full payment of the advance and then the cutback as a result of the examination.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0358par0449	Mr. Secretary, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0357par0450	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0358par0451	Yes, thank you. The second joke in the article states that interest is being collected from health care servers who are suing for interest, but the third joke states that interest from health care servers who are not suing the same issue will not be returned. The motion aims to eliminate this inequality and injustice. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 460 shall be changed in the form of six months in accordance with Article 7 of the Framework. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Sermin Balık Nurdan Şanlı Şay alpay Yilmaz Tunisian Mehmet Akyerek Suat Önal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the provision of the Article 510 shall be removed from the substance text within three months of the publication of this clause, which is included in Article 5510, under Article 7 and Article 5510, under the Law, under the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act on Some Laws. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Enver Erdem Erkan Akçay Ali Öz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0359par0475	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0358par0476	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0360par0477	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0358par0478	Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu has asked for a statement on the proposal, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0361par0480	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed MPs on the motion that we have submitted on Article 7 of the bill. I salute your high council. Article 7 of the bill allows foreign national students to receive general health insurance in three months' time, who have already registered and continue to study, adding a temporary 50th article to Law 5510. By this provision, foreign national students are able to enter into general health insurance without being searched for the basis of reciprocity. Again, they are covered by public health insurance in the event that they have registered and continue to study without the requirement for a year's residence in Turkey. According to the current provisions, only students of foreign nationals who have seen higher education are now covered by all foreign nationals. This bill came to our agenda as a bag of laws and changes to at least seven laws. As far as his provisions are concerned, this bag of legislation contains provisions that do not have a relationship or connection with them, which are not subject and purpose. So it is possible to say that this bill contains a complex structure. The bill must be predictable, understandable and accessible. In this case, it is possible to say that the bill has also upset the general principles of the law. In addition to the bill, there is no regulatory impact analysis required by Article 14 of Law 5018. So we haven't been able to evaluate how much and how much of the material we're talking about is going to bring into the budget. On the occasion of this bill, I'd like to share with you a find known to all of us. Given the whole bill, it is possible to say that there is an epiphany of law enforcement in the darkball trying to conceal some complex issues. We see that the government who drafted this bill from time to time is trying to conceal, cover things, smuggle them out of public opinion. For example, children who are not 18 years old with the first article of the bill are allowed to be covered under the overall health insurance of individuals. But for years, the representatives of the ruling party have provided us with public health insurance for all individuals under the age of 18. Aren't they propaganda? Since this arrangement has been made, either what you've said so far has not been true, or this judgment of the bill is unnecessary. On the other hand, congratulations to all members of the Plan and Budget Commission, especially members of our party's Plan and Budget Commission. Because, as part of Law 5726 in the government's draft bill, they have removed the provision from the draft text concerning many of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) secret witnesses. Public health insurance has been blocked from the PKK's secret witnesses who sent their heroic soldiers to prison with testimony from the Turkish Armed Forces. The government's approach to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is an exemplary statement for its co-operation with the PKK and its conversation with the PKK. Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, despite our insistence in the regulations of social security laws, the issues such as rangers, village chiefs, county general council members' rights, pensions have failed to enter the government's discretion. The village rangers are people who work for an average of $850, who receive $310 in pensions, who pay social security premiums out of their pockets, and in return, especially in the fight against terrorism. What must be done to help the government address the problems of the village rangers? Do you want them to join the PKK people you love so much because they're retreating these days that you don't want anything to happen to them while they're retreating? It's in a newspaper today, there's a job for terrorists coming down from the mountain, and if that's true, should the village rangers go up the mountain first and then come back and ask for a job? What about the chiefs? They can only get 380 TL to the social security premium. With legal regulations and technological advances, they've lost their pens, which are the source of income by now. You don't seem to have any preparation or good news for them. They don't have as much value as you do as PKK terrorists do. We'll get rid of the villages and the chiefs, and we'll make them urban and local, so they'll give up on you. With these thoughts, I request the acceptance of our motion, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0362par0491	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the provision of the 460-line bill of law shall be replaced in the form of the six-month term of Article 7 of the framework. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0363par0498	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0362par0499	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0364par0500	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0365par0501	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0362par0502	I'm reading the reason: Due to the fact that the three-month period envisioned in the law will be up to six months in three months, in order for students to be able to receive their application on time during their summer vacation, and to give sufficient time for the process to be done without delay by the institution. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the law shall be changed in the form of three months in the framework Article 8 of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Enver Erdem Erkan Akçay Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0366par0515	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0362par0516	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0367par0517	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0362par0518	Mehmet Erdogan has asked for a statement on the motion, Müğla MP.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0368par0520	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the 8th amendment of the bill we're discussing. I salute your high council. The reason for the change here is that we've offered a change so that all interested members of the board can be informed of these studies sooner. Guys, I think we're the only night watchmans left on the street at this time of night, but there's no regulation on the night watch. Now, of course, when we consider this bill, we're dealing with the usual AKP classic, bag of law. Well, of course, the part of this law about social security, Mr. Secretary, of course, is interested, following, but it's also understood from the way he answers questions about a lot of issues, such as property peace and so on, that he doesn't have any information. Now, we've been working together for almost two years in this House. During the time we've been working, no law is coming to this House on any relevant commission, preparing for the relevant ministry. It's got to be a bag of law-making disease, which is how we started from the beginning, and so on. Guys, with this bag of law, you're disrespecting commissions, disrespecting relevant institutions, messing with Parliament's lawmaking technique. No one knows what kind of changes are made in the law, including yourself. And, of course, by cutting the literature, they're also hidden from the citizens. Last week, Mr. President and I went to Portugal. In the Portuguese Parliament, parliamentary television broadcasts all the work, as well as a section of the broadcast section within parliament that allows all the televisions to broadcast live as much as they want to, the MPs of all parties saw together. Now, friends, I asked Mr. Secretary on the whole of the law, and I said, "What is the burden of this law on the citizen?" No, he said. So now, I'm a muğla MP, in the AKP era, no hospitals were built. During the AKP, the number of public beds added during the past 11 years is only 42 friends, to the population of the people who have increased by more than 20 per cent. Now, you're going to compel the citizen to private hospitals, and then you're going to increase his contribution to the private hospital, sir, we didn't bring any burdens to anyone. So go tell the citizen if there's such a thing or not. You'll take every precaution to make money for private hospitals, you won't give a public doctor, you won't build a new hospital, you won't give the citizens new facilities for treatment, and then you'll come back here and say, "We didn't bring any burdens to anyone." And, of course, this is what you call peace of existence. Of course, you put in peace and bring it here in the name of all the hard work there is, but when it comes to peace, there is no peace. Now, whose money is the 150 billion dollars that the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy is expected to come to Turkey, my friends? I don't have any money in this. Do any of you have any money in it? Whose money is this for the future? How did you calculate the amount of this money? Who was this money taken abroad during your time? Also, is there or is there no money in this money provided by PKK? If not, why did you withdraw the international contract on financing terrorism from here? So we're going to have to get the answers out and have the relevant Deputy Prime Minister tell us here and so on to the Turkish nation. All the laws you've made by hiding from the Turkish nation will be on your feet tomorrow. This is the Turkish nation's Assembly, the House of the Turkish state. You are responsible for protecting the rights of this nation and this state. Otherwise, none of us have a duty to protect the rights of smugglers, crooks, thieves, jinxes, friends. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit06spe0369par0529	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-15sit07spe0369par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 460, where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (May 16th 2013) to discuss other tasks from the commissions with the draft and proposals, according to the decision taken, it is now 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
