tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Van MP Mustafa Bilici, who asked for a speech on Van's day of victory.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise in honor of the 95th anniversary of the release of the enemy's invasion. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, the city of Van has a very old history that dates back to ancient times. Excavations found in the area indicate that the area was a permanent settlement before the age. The Hurri living in East Anatolia have made it their center. After the Hurriites, the Urartus dominated the region, and Van became the capital of the Urartu for three hundred years, called Tushpa. Van, who has hosted many civilizations and capitalized capitals, has also been a powerful, ancient society with many cultures such as Persians, Medes, Seljucians, Ottomans, and the Ottomans. Van, 95 years ago, on May 20, 1915, was invaded by the Russian army with the support of the Armenians. After the invasion, with the support and provocation of the Russians, the Armenians brutally massacred the Muslim locals without saying "kids." In 1917, when Russian troops began to retreat due to the revolution in Russia, the Armenian forces became stronger and stronger with supplies, weapons and ammunition left behind from the Russians, and began to burn Van and his surroundings down, which led by Ali İhsan Sabis Pasha. On April 2, 1918, along with the Corps Command and its clans, the forces of the Armenians were fully removed from Van, after five days of violent combat. More than 30,000 were killed in a total battle in Van. On the Caucasus front, 120 young children, whose hearts were large but old, who had volunteered to bring ammunition to the soldiers who were running out of ammunition, in January 1915, crossed the snowy mountains that froze man's blood, and began to surrender the ammunition to a 100km unit, but on the way back, 98 percent of these children were martyrs. Once again, I say God rest their souls. On April 2, 1918, three years after the invasion, the population of the Russian occupation and the Armenian massacre dropped to 13,000. During this period, Van was burned to the ground and devastated. The town was then re-established at the site of the Bonds, and in 1923 Van, which at that time looked rural. Dear friends, today is April 2, 2013, and Van is now a city. With about 1 million 100,000 populations, it is the largest city in the Eastern Anatolian region. The great city which has embraced it with the people of Kadirshinas. It's a big attraction that's going to be a locomotive around its economy. It's a shooting center that will host convention and fairs in its district. Our city, as in other cities, lives in the power of the AK PARTY and its golden age. With investments in transportation, health, education, industry and social life, Van began to develop and develop rapidly with services provided. Van, the rising star of East Anatolia, is on the verge of becoming an important attraction. The most important potential of the van is border trade, tourism and animalism at this point. Van is located in a basin of four seasons geographically. Van, who has a particularly important destinization of winter tourism, natural tourism, mountain climbing, water sports, is also one of the key centers of history and faith tourism. I tried to pass on the history, culture, struggle, and present. I'd like to share with you a poem written about Van. One side looks at the sea, With fountains flowing in it, Their waters smell of pale amber, The Brotherhood is in this van, in this van. Mount Erek to the east, And gardens of vines, all around, And he hath set up a tent of mighty men, The Brotherhood is in this van, in this van. It's an unforgettable winter, It's not too hot in the summer, Oh, what a lovely spring. The Brotherhood is in this van, in this van.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0003par0037	Thank you. The second non-responsored statement belongs to İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı (Islamic) who wants to talk about growth figures and economic assessments.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0004par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as you know, the growth figures were announced yesterday, and the general table of the economy came up three to five times more accurately, and it turned out to be not a Turkish miracle. You know, Mr. AKP lawmakers and the government are constantly talking about a Turkish miracle, but when we saw the numbers explained in the economy, we made it clear that there was no miracle. In the last quarter numbers, the economy almost stopped, the wheels of the economy stopped. When the economy was cleared of season and calendar effects, it showed a growth of close to zero, so it didn't grow. The economy has been losing speed for eight quarters, and the economy's growth rate has been going down for eight quarters. The domestic demand has reached its point of collapse. In 2012, domestic demand was negative. When public spending was taken out, the economy shrinked in the last quarter, dear friends. Now, in the face of these numbers, we've hit the brakes, so we've come to the right spots. In fact, it's a cooling effort in the economy. It's become clear that their rhetoric is actually meaningless. There's a growth rate falling from 8.8 to 2.2, and there's a 4 times negative growth performance in growth over the last year. In return, how much recovery has been achieved in the current operations deficit? It's only $28 billion. So, in fact, we had to make four times the sacrifice without growing up to make a $28 billion recovery. And that makes it very clear to us that the economy didn't actually come to this point as a result of a brake or a cooling effort. Growth targets didn't hold up. As you know, in the first Central Future Program, the growth goal was 4 per cent, then revised to this 3.2, now 2.2. We now announce that in 2013 and after, the Central Future Program will not hold up the government's growing goals. It's only now that it won't hold because there's no hope that it'll stimulate domestic demand, that it'll activate it, there's no hope that there's no data; investment spending is falling, the private sector's machine equipment purchases have dropped 13.5 per cent, private sector's fixed capital investments dropped in the third quarter. Therefore, there is no indication that both the investment channel and the consumption channel will stimulate the economy in the middle term, so 2013 will not hold up the growth goal. Since 2013 will not hold the goal of growth, tax revenues will not be achieved, and tax revenues will not be achieved, so the next term is a period of increase in tax targets. I hereby declare that as of June, Turkey will have a very serious raise. As the first quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of the growth figures are explained, there will be a significant increase in the increases that have already been agreed upon as financial performance emerges, starting with natural gas. The unemployment numbers will go back up, they'll start to come out. We closed the year at 10.1, but as of autumn, unemployment numbers began to accelerate upwards. Unemployment will remain with double digits. See, the historical growth average of Turkey's economy is 5 per cent. Our average growth across the AKP is only 5 per cent, so there is no Turkish miracle. Turkey is as big as its historical average. In the 1980s, our unemployment rate was 8.3 per cent, with an average of 8.2. See, in the years of instability, when governments were divided and established, unemployment averages 8.2 percent. Now you're talking about stability, let Turkey grow, you say. But unemployment is 10.1. The unemployment rate will be even higher next term. As a result, my dear deputy friends, there is a path where growth rates will not keep up and grow, targets will not keep up, unemployment will increase, life cost of life, inflation will continue to stay high, and most importantly, there will be no shortage of current transactions, so external vulnerability related to Turkey will continue. It's an extremely difficult path for the government, and it's a very convenient path for social democrats. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0005par0052	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (Islamic Party) who wants to talk about the maintenance issue of the Istanbul walls.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0006par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book oath to discuss the irreparability and destruction of our historical heritage, the Surlar of Istanbul. I salute you all. The walls of Istanbul, which surround the historic peninsula, have been built since the 5th century, and have been renovated four times along with the collapses and reconstructions. Each section of these magnificent walls of walls, dark walls, and the walls of Marmara contains many stories that feed history within them. From the dark walls of the Edirnekapi-Yedikule, surrounded by the tri-wall system, to the walls of the Marmara, to the walls of the one wall, to the walls of the Halic wall, all sides of the wall are intertwined with history. The proposal to the UNESCO World Heritage Committee in 1985 stressed the importance of the Black Walls of Istanbul to be 6,650m long, dating back to 447, and military architecture. The historical peninsula, however, shows that the walls were built before all artifacts, and the message is that if there are no walls, there will be no art and architecture produced by cultures living in the region. This proposal was taken based on the document to the World Heritage List of the Istanbul Black Walls. Today, the walls of Istanbul, on the World Heritage List, have been abandoned to its fate and have been destroyed by lack of care and carelessness. This indifference has deprived the walls of security as much as all this glorious history has led to its disappearance. In early 2013, Sarai Sierra's murder in the vicinity of the Walls and security problems around the walls were re-resolved, and Istanbul's Walls, which had previously experienced similar incidents, were not a historical site, and unlike that, they became one of the most insecure, unguarded areas in the city. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are seen in the Prost Plan 1938 as part of protection and urban planning and protection decisions on the wall and its nearby environment. Apart from some exceptions, the decisions and principles that this plan has predicted are still in effect and are valid. In addition to some practices in the Yezkule region since 1980, there have been intense protests by art historians, archaeologists and architects. The reason for this protest was that, rather than positive with urban architecture, these repairs were quickly repaired with the desire to get results before much time left for preliminary research and analysis phases, they were explained by the loss of the quality of the walls, the irreparable scarring of history. As a result of these statements, the walls and so practices were on the agenda of international protection institutions and organisations, and UNESCO audits were concentrated, and in 2005, they were stopped by UNESCO on the grounds that the restoration was not done correctly. Since the restorations have never been conducted in accordance with the proper and consistent manner with the historical walls, the reevaluation phase is often interrupted, and historical walls continue to draw attention to dark, dirty, and broken images. Mr. President, what is the difference between the Walls of Istanbul, which is part of the UNESCO World Heritage List and the Great Wall of China? Both are on the World Heritage List and are home to a very rich history, but when we look at a cultural heritage preserve, the real landscape emerges. The Great Wall of China and its environment were restored with all kinds of architectural balances, and in 2007 it was chosen as one of the new 7 wonders of the world. Istanbul Walls, on the other hand, have become a place where homeless people become shelters and people are afraid to travel because of security issues. Although there have been continuous tenders for restoration of historical walls under the authority and responsibility of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, there is no such work by professional groups and researchers. Although regular and accurate work has not been done, the authority and responsibility available in the municipality is not being transferred to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which fuels problems with the building of walls. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I want you to know that historical walls are the common cultural heritage of all of us, a historical value in which we are all in charge, to be carefully protected. I repeat again that the immediate restoration work is necessary to think in a multidimensional way in accordance with the needs of local residents and those who come to see the wall for tourism, the urban architecture of the city and its area. On this occasion, Easter, celebrated by the Christian world, brought love and peace to all Christian citizens and Christian worlds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all with the wishes of such holidays to bring peace and peace to the entire country.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0007par0068	Thank you. Mr. Vural, you have a request.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0008par0072	Thank you. Mr. President, we, the National Movement Party, are celebrating the 95th anniversary of the release from the enemy's invasion. Of course, it's not a win-win, it's a win-win. We remember the heroes of the struggle for salvation with respect and gratitude. Once again, I remember 80 thousand Vans who were subjected to Armenian brutality. I honor 50 women, women who are martyrs, women who guard their chastity, leaving them in the lake to protect their chastity while they are being taken to the Church of Akdamar. On May 17th, we offered a law to make it the day of the Armenian mesememination of Van. With Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu. Hopefully, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will immediately discuss this proposal of law and respond with a law from Parliament against the idea of this invasion. As the National Movement Party, I thank you, Mr. President, with my faith that the actual, mental, or intellectual occupation will never occur in this geography again.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0009par0077	Thank you. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0010par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. We congratulate the Vanians first on the 95th year of Van's deliverance from enemy occupation. We also ask for the mercy of all the martyrs who lost their lives in the process. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has asked for 560, 741, 786, 828, 835, 989, 1021, 1129, 1179, 1181, 1282, 1283, 1451, 1709, 1729, 1729, 1794, 1794, 1821, 1821, 1821, 1821, and an all-time proposal of the proposals. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly By investigating the problems of farmers in Adana province, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be conducted in accordance with Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter. [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Elizipt]] 5) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Kastamon]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Paddles]] [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Lug]] [[Adana]] [[Slap]] [[Kayseri]] [[Inconceived]] [[Antalya]] 19) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 20) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Mughle]] [[Aydın]] With its population approaching 2 million, it is also considered a metropolis of Çukurova, and is in a very important position in the transport of land roads, sea roads, air and railways, both at the point of connecting different parts of our country and as a door to the Middle East. Its textile and agricultural industry, dating back about half a century, has provided our country with savings, a foundation for modern industrial launch, and has led the city of the south, suffering from many problems in recent years. As in our country's entire country, the situation of our farmers trying to farm in Adana province has become more difficult every day, and the farmers who farm try to farm by dealing with many challenges. The rising costs of seed, fertilizer, diesel and agricultural fighting medicines in agricultural fields have also left our farmer in an economic difficulty, leaving his field unplantable, with the value of the product that he produced in difficult conditions falling year after year. This has increased immigration from the districts of Adana to the province's centre. Because the farmer's product is worthless, they are unable to pay their debts to the tradesmen and banks, and they are in debt, assuming the next year's harvest. In our province, where agriculture-based industry is of great importance, the farmer is affected as well as the industrialist. The closing of nearly 30 factories based on agriculture in our province is a key indicator of that. From narcissist to cotton, from corn to peanuts, our farmers are devastated in Çukurova, where agricultural production is known as Turkey's warehouse, which should be rightly appreciated, but, in this sense, is not supported by support. In the past four or five years, our farmer, who has seen an increase of up to 700 per cent to the prices of fertilizer, has been baffled by the price of diesel, which has been constantly climbing and making 1 ton more expensive than an acre of land. Despite such an increase in the inputs, our manufacturer is desperate to find only twice as much sales in some of the crops he harvests. When we look at the distribution of public investments according to the provinces of 2011, the agricultural investment in our province of Adana is 48 million,610,000 euros. So less than Edirne, Erzurum, and Maraş, one-tenth of Urbana, one-eighth of Diyarbakır, one-fiveth of Konya. Although there are rivers of Seyhan and Ceyhan, which are divided into two parts of our province of Adana, even though they have arms, streams, teas, and inland lakes, 41 percent of these wetlands can be watered efficiently. As we look at the data from the Adana Agricultural County Directorate, the production numbers of 1994-2009 have increased by 100,000 tonnes each year. From this, we understand that the farmer's efforts in agriculture have led to this growth, and the government has no effect. The investigation of the issue by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will help to improve the situation of your farmers in this situation both in our province and across the country. That's what our research proposal is for. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The province of Şanlıurfa is the province of Şanlıurfa, the legal basis for building destruction in the Ottoman neighborhood of 03/02/2012, the reason for no further delay in the destruction and for illegal construction rates throughout the province and for the immediate resolution of these issues, with respect to the need for a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 7) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] 10) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 11) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 25) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] The city of the prophets, the city of Urbana, has a rich history dating back to eight thousand years. In fact, it is said that Adam and Eve had been staying in Urbana for some time. According to Arab historians, one of the 18 cities founded by Noah was Urbana. So Urbana is one of the first residential centers. Since its establishment, Urbana has been the subject of hundreds of legends and stories. Glory is a cradle of civilizations. The distorted construction of the city in Şanliurfa, a city that should be an example of its historical and cultural structure, is corrupting the structure of the city. According to recent reports from both local and national media, irregular construction in certain areas of Şanliurfa has increased, and these structures have been destroyed by municipalities, police and police. The warped construction is that cities grow randomly and unplannedly without any control power. Without any aesthetic concern, the kind of urbanization that occurs without consideration for the natural needs of humans and without considering the protection of the present historical touch causes the destruction of the historical, cultural and natural resources of existing settlements. The development and construction of the province of Şanlıurfa over the past ten years must be examined and necessary measures to prevent illegal construction. The population and internal migration activity of the city must be determined. The illegal construction in Şanlıurfa will be under control on this occasion. Another issue is whether the destruction of the building in the province of Şanliurfa will take place on a more advanced date than the winter months before 03/2/2012. It is important for the people and public to investigate the reasons for the collapse of these buildings in winter. Criminal proceedings are being carried out under Article 184 of the Turkish Penal Code against those who caused zoning pollution. Again, according to Article 184 of the Turkish Penal Code, Article (2), "The person who allows constructions to be established due to construction without a structural license to connect electricity, water or telephone to construction will be sentenced to up to five years in prison from one year to the next." It's called. In the same way, the building code 3194 was also ruled that buildings that were not allowed to use or were not given could not benefit from infrastructure services such as electricity, water, and sewers. Although giving electricity, water, gas, and subscriptions to buildings that have been destroyed because of their fugitives is against the law and regulations, municipalities condone it. This is an indirect zoning pardon. For all these reasons, we respectfully convey the need for a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the legal basis for the destruction in the province of Şanlıurfa, why the destruction is not postponed to a further date, and to address the number of illegal construction rates across the province and to address these problems immediately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 27th Article of the Publicisation Act 2942, titled "Short Publicisation" (Second of the Law), is applied in favour of companies who make urban transformations in Tea, Strawberry and Liber8, as well as to the Constitution's 98th. And we demand and demand the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[Mersin]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The 27th article of the Law on Publicisation No. 2942, titled "Aggression of Publicisation" (Aggression) on the request of the relevant administration to be completed by the court in seven days, with the request of the Court, to determine the need for national defence or haste in implementing the Law on National Defense Number 3634, or the value of the State of Emergency, in the case of the Council of Ministers shall be determined, in the case of which the moveable property must be adopted in accordance with the state of emergency or in accordance with special laws, and in accordance with the application of the provision of the property of the property of the property, which shall be approved by the manager, in accordance with the request of the appropriate property, and in accordance with the application of the ten-tenth article." The rule is granted. In Article 1 of Article 1 of National Defense Act 3634, "Every individual is in debt to give or perform all military needs or services that cannot be provided by means of common means during preparations for mobilisation during the tense and crisis period, when such situations have not yet been declared, but may require a war." It is stated in what conditions the law will be enforced. Before World War II, the Council of Ministers was given the authority to "confiscate" the premises needed on the grounds of national defence to meet emergency military needs under the laws adopted in 1939, with the possibility of Turkey going to war. Even so, the "soldiers" cannot use this authority alone, and the move they need is required by the Council of Ministers' decision to confiscate the move beyond the usual publicisation procedure. It is published in the Official Gazette, with a decision to confiscate and which properties have been seized. The practice of quick publicisation, which is brought into the war law as an exceptional means of publicisation, has been made a common means of publicisation during the AKP administration. In 2004, TBMM's will was ignored, and the Council of Ministers' decision and the EPDK were handed over to the EPDK for immediate publicisation. The EPDK uses this authority in energy, mining, natural gas and oil sectors without any legal restrictions or supervision. At the request of companies licensed by the EPDK, you are urgently on the path of publicisation. The authority to seize the Chief of General Staff unrecognizable in the terms of the war is recognised to companies operating in the current sectors and close to the government. In Turkey's energy investments, only the number of HES projects exceeds 2,000. The EPDK has been authorized to seize the move-ins in almost all parts of Turkey in favour of private companies. Citizens who have been ordered by the EPDK to immediately adopt their move are aware of these decisions, except that there is no regulation for the release of EPDK decisions, unlike the decisions made by the Council of Ministers. In this way, the decision of the Council of Ministers issued on 16/12/2011 and on 28/12/2011's Official Newspaper (28157) the Mediterranean district of Mersin for urban transformation in the regions of Freedom, Strawberry and Tea, as well as on the cyanide mining projects in İzmir Efemçukuru and Uçe Köme, Hasankeyf, Amasya Taşova and Derim, the area of the citizens' lives have been sealed in the HES and dam projects. With the transfer of this authority to the EPDK in 2004, the obligation for the immediate publicisation of the decision was also lifted in the Official Gazette. Parliamentary research may reveal how much of Turkey's geography is occupied by capital by this method. The investigation of this war law policy that the capital has launched against our natural assets, our water, our land, our habitats and our future should be considered primarily part of the TBMM's duties. In addition, the TBM should be on the side of this issue in order to defend its own existence, since it was originally passed over by the will of the TBMM. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0012par0264	Mr. President, I have a brief request to inform you of something.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0011par0265	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0012par0268	Mr. President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is opening an official Twitter account and informing Parliament of its activities. Although this is a good service, a message has been sent today from Twitter about the AKP's Grand National Assembly group meeting, there are briefs about it, but other party groups, the National Movement Party Group, have not reported about it. I'd like to report this to the House administration through a witness of yours. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0011par0270	Thank you. It will be noted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors could not meet on Tuesday 02/04/2013 (today), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On 29 March 2013 and 11134 points, it has been suggested that our parliamentary research motion to investigate and determine the problems of physicians and health workers, which we have given the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, be read and held in the General Assembly on Tuesday 02/04/2013 (now). Mr. Tanal, get well soon. We wish you good health, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0013par0286	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0011par0287	The National Movement Party has asked for the group's proposal, Reşat Right, Slap MP. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0014par0290	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favour of the motion to investigate the issues of physicians and health workers and to investigate the measures that need to be taken. I salute the High Council. As you know, physicians and health workers have recently been subjected to violent attacks and are left to many problems. Of course, when we look at these, we are obliged to make an assessment: We have done great things in health, we have jumped the age. In the end, however, those who work in health and those who serve in health also complain. Hospitals are full. We live in a period of time when we have long appointments, even for x-rays, where the citizen is not at ease with his examination. See, everything is fine. When it's said, there are basically two indicators of this. The first one, especially in Ankara, is the Numune Hospital; the second one is Haseki Hospital in İstanbul. You can clearly see what health is when you go to Numune Hospital in Ankara or Haseki Hospital in İstanbul, where health is, what employees do or what services are taken. It's our advice from here that our friends who say everything's fine, especially when they go to Ankara Numune Hospital, where they're there for 12 hours, even if it's not 24 hours, because it's a terminal hospital -- they can clearly see what's going on in health. But interestingly enough, there's no opinion on it. Congressmans, it's a fact that we've been seeing a lot of violent attacks against health workers, especially recently. Look, everything's fine in health right now. I'll draw you some profiles and we'll all decide together after the profiles I've drawn. Doctors: Are we not experiencing a period of time when both our physicians and our health workers are literally disappointed, destroyed, and their dignity almost completely destroyed? See, it's something that, at first, Mr. Prime Minister, and in later times, with the words of our health ministers, physicians have been shown to be money-eyed, as if everything was made of money, and the reputation of physicians is unfortunately beginning to wear down. What happened next? You can see that there have been attacks on health workers all over Turkey. In the wake of the attacks, physicians were sometimes injured, sometimes killed, and they were found to have been severely hit by health workers. After all, if we want to improve health, let's correct the honor of the bride physicians and do some work at the point where their dignity will be restored to them. My second expression is that the Ministry of Health boasts every year about the number of patients and the number of patients who are sick and operating, saying that the number of patients he looks at is increasing, the number of surgeries are increasing, but interestingly, the exact opposite is necessary to think about. I mean, if there was serious health in our country, shouldn't there be fewer patients and fewer surgeries? But it's interesting, unfortunately, the painting we see is the opposite. So, in the end, the main thing that's left out here is that there's not a lot of hard work being done in protective medicine. Would you say that in Turkey right now, you are in full protective medicine? Look, especially in our country, there are a lot of harmful foods and drinks. In particular, again, there are various genetically modified foods. At first, many genetically modified products, including corn and sweeteners, are used to feed our children in the form of biscuits, and in various places, our people are used to sweeten and sweeten both fruit juices and jam. I wonder if there's any serious study about it. Is there any study of polluting the waters, fixing the pollution of the air? Look, we're in an environment where we have a lot of problems in big cities where our people's psychology is going to go bad. Aren't suicides increasing every day in our country? I thought people's psychology was improving. On the contrary, one of the most important issues of our country right now is that the psychological problems are increasing. Go to hospitals, psychiatric services, psychiatric services are packed to the brim. You see people who have serious problems with skin disease in front of their skin clinics because of their skin polyclinics, the GMO products that are being used, or genetically modified products. Again, the past few days have been Cancer Week. Unfortunately, in Turkey, cancers are growing in a very intense way. So, come, let's discuss what we can do about protective medicine, rather than increase the number of patients, increase the number of surgeries in hospitals. But it's interesting, you know, the Ministry of Health officials, unfortunately, aren't involved in this kind of work, and in the end, we're dealing with very serious problems. Of course, I'd like to transfer from here to physicians' rights. Many of our physicians are in great distress right now. Our physicians in particular do not want to retire. Why? Because when our physician retires, he can no longer make a living, lawmakers. So even though we've been constantly saying about their rights, we can't get an inch away. Our new Minister of Health has been appointed. If the new Minister of Health wants to go down in history, let's make some improvements, improvements on the rights of our physicians, and let our people relax. What's the doctor doing? He feels the need to work at the hospital until his last day. Why does he feel the need to work? Because when he retires, he can't make a living on his own. Medicine is a very difficult craft. The physician always wants to make sacrifices and make sacrifices. There's no time for sacrifice, so it's 24 hours. In fact, it's interesting: a physician takes a vacation, gets on a plane, even on a plane, hears an announcement called "The Doctor." He goes and looks at the patient there again. I mean, the doctor's schedule is unpredictable, and the doctor has to work regularly. Besides, see, a freak is also concerned with the Full - Day Law. After the Full-Day Act was passed... because that law was immediately issued with the ordinance of Palas Pandiras 650. It has been removed, but the parties have not been heard, lawmakers. However, if the doctors' rooms had been bugged, the physicians' organisations had been heard, the NGOs, the NGOs had been heard, there would probably not have been such an offensive law. There are changes in the full-time law at the moment. The Ministry of Health has some work to do. In particular, the study of our professors at university hospitals has been prevented from working, but only studies on education should not be taken care of. It turned out to be so wrong. Now, the Ministry of Health officials are working on it. What are they doing? After the end of their shift, after 5:00 p.m., they're trying to give our physicians the right to private work, to examine. How come they're trying to give it to me, my dear friends? Here they set a price of 55 liras. Some of the 55 liras go to return capital, some go to taxes, the physician gets $17. So, I say to you, my dear fellow physicians, my dear colleagues, how many patients will you care for when you receive the $17? How many patients will you be taking care of after five? It's interesting, there are very serious problems with the full day at the moment, and the Full-Day Law must be brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to be debated again, to be raised that way. But interestingly enough, we can't see much of it now that we're waiting for it. There are also problems with return capital, lawmakers, which do not benefit from the healthcare system, causing great unrest among employees. The return capitals are now almost at the point of completion of a performance, and all of the employees are, I wonder, how am I supposed to complete the performance? In addition, physicians in public hospitals should be authorized to treat patients in their clinics or private hospitals, except on full-time shifts. In this regard, the Ministry of Health has brought heavy provisions that have made it difficult for the opening of the clinics. But this place isn't right. Let's encourage the opening of the practice. In fact, let's make it so that social security agencies consider the prescriptions written in these clinics valid because those people have policy books, they're registered in medical rooms, they're registered in tax offices. So why don't you consider the prescriptions or reports that these people wrote like this valid? That's weird. I want to say that we expect improvement at these points. You also have to have the same status as physicians who work at university educational hospitals and physicians who work in service hospitals, so at some point you pay doctors at the university hospital a different fee, you give other employees different jobs, and at this point, some studies have to be done. Another thing is family medicine: Family medicine is unfortunately only a prescription writer at the moment. Family medicine must be brought back to the agenda, and it must be discussed because without a chain of transport, there is no service, and there is no chain of transport in our country at the moment, unfortunately. Sure, there's a lot to say. I'm coming to the end of my words, but what I particularly want to say, my dear friends, is that in our country, domestic medicine needs to be started. In our country, the waste of medicine is increasing day by day. The Ministry of Health has been inadequate in this regard, as in other matters. However, right now, the use of antibiotics is increasing dramatically. However, the use of antibiotics is not right, and it creates resistance to the body. So let's do studies of over-medicine use in our country, such as cigarette-like, cigarette-related studies in this direction, and let's also provide support for local medicines, especially in local areas, which are related to pharmaceutical production. I'm afraid in our country right now, the drugs are completely trusted pharmaceutical factories... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's all in the hands of the trust. So I'm saying there's a lot of trouble at this point. Of course, there's a lot of words to be said, but we're interrupted again. I believe, hopefully, if you vote for our research proposal, we'll all work this out together.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0015par0318	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked to take a stand against the group's proposal Mustafa Baloglu, Konya MP.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0016par0321	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our government has taken important steps in the health sector and has achieved many successes in the transformation and transformation programme. According to the World Health Organization's definition of health care, human most valuable capital, it is not only a condition of sickness and injury, but also a form of goodness in physical, spiritual, and social aspects. Health is a function of genetics, lifestyle, environmental factors and other health care. Other key identifiers of health include health care and policies as a reflection of variables such as the global economy, politics, culture, history, technology and follow-up policies on a global scale and national level. In general, health care is all of the services offered to protect, improve health, treat sick people and cripples and rehabilitate them. Health care is social, and it's all about the population. Besides, it's a busy industry, which requires 24/7 service. The primary purpose of the health system is to improve health and meet its expectations. The EC PARTY government signed a major reform in the sector with the Health Transformation Programme after it came to power alone in 2002. The Emergency Action Programme and Health Transformation Program have revealed the main issues in the health sector and all the elements in the healthcare system, such as financing, service presentation, management and organisation. The aims of transformation programmes in health care are to organise health care effectively, efficiently and in accordance with rights, provide and provide financing. The main cornerstones of these third wave health reforms are the separation of service presentation and financing to ensure the use of better resource allocation, the establishment of general health insurance to ensure rights and access to health care, the giving of financial and administrative autonomy to public hospitals to ensure efficiency and governance, the start of family medicine to strengthen first base and to ensure continuity in treatment. Precious lawmakers are a citizen-based programme in the Health Transformation Programme, which has been implemented since 2003, and the first step is the planning and presentation of health care on the needs, demands and expectations of individuals. One of the key components of this program is family medicine, which is the modern practice of primary health care. The family physician is responsible for the health and health of all members of the family from the baby in the womb to the oldest member of the family. He takes the necessary measures to protect the person he's responsible for from illness. In a state of illness, he performs standing treatment within the scope of his knowledge and experience. A total of 20,185 physicians and 2,167 physicians at 961 community health centers are 22,352 physicians at 6,367 family health centers after the transition of 17.800 physicians in the first step ahead of family medicine. It was thus made easier for citizens to reach the physician. As of the end of 2010, one family physician serves 3,600 people. In the family medicine service, everyone is provided with free treatment, regardless of whether they have health insurance or not. The midwife, the nurse, the paramedics, may be a family health worker, but with the change in 2010, emergency medical technicians are also given the opportunity. Family physicians provide temporary health care for rural residents at periodic intervals. A change in 2010 started in the homes of nursing homes, prisons, and children's homes, while home care for bedridden patients was provided by family physicians. Inoculations, baby and pregnant monitors, 15-49-year-old women's monitoring, screening programmes, vitamin D and iron support, periodic health checks for certain age groups, and many protective health care services, such as national health control programmes, are also the responsibility of family physicians. Our ministry has also done some very important work on emergency health care. By the end of 2002, the number of 112 fully equipped ambulances reached 2.766, as of the end of 2011. As of December 2011, 224 snow palette ambulances serve in areas where transportation is difficult due to geographical and climate conditions. In addition, 52 motorcycles and large cities are served for reasons such as street shortages and traffic density, to serve in situations where standard ambulances cannot be reached. Again, four marine ambulances, which started in 2007, continue to serve in Istanbul, Çanakkale, Balıkesir and Gökçeada. The air ambulance system has been operational in our country since 2008. As of December 2011, 19 ambulance helicopters were deployed throughout the country in 15 districts. According to the years, the Ministry of Health has also seen significant increases in the number of ambulances. Compared to 2002, the number of ambulances increased approximately 1.5 times in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Dear lawmakers, our government has set a very important fund for the healthcare sector and has increased its budget for health expenditures so that necessary services can be provided. The GDP rate of public health spending reached 3.79 per cent in 2002 from 2.91 per cent in 1999. In 2008, it was 4.44 per cent. In total health expenditures, the share of private health expenditures was 1.85 in 1999 and 1.57 in 2002 and 1.64 in 2008. Again, a planned and supportive Health Ministry with the Health Change Programme, a general health insurance policy that raises everyone under one roof; widespread, easy access, smiley health care system, strengthened basic health care services; family medicine; effective, gradual delivery chain, administrative and financially more efficient and manageive health care institutions; health care and scientific institutions, equipped with knowledge and skill, will continue to reform and reform the health power, the system, education and science institutions to support the system, quality and acrements for qualified and effective health care services; and in terms of institutional productions and materials. On this occasion, the National Movement Party declares that we will vote against the group's proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0017par0335	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0018par0336	You're always negative, against everything. What the hell is this?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0019par0337	Look at the records...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0017par0338	The National Movement Party has asked for the group's proposal. Orhan Süçük, MP of Tokat.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0020par0340	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, I salute you all. My dear friends, before I begin my words -- about a year before this -- these days will be the 1st anniversary of death, and I remember the late Dr. Ersin Arslan, once again before all of you, as a martyr of duty. Yes, in 2002, after AKP power, the Health Transformation Project was launched. What happened during this process, I'd like to briefly sum them up for you. There's been a surge in health that we've been unable to prevent, and we've been talking over and over on the council bench, but we haven't been able to make any progress. Now, in television, newspapers, doctors, nurses, health workers, beatings, even injuries have become ordinary incidents. So, what did we do in the process? Our former Minister of Health, after Ersin had died, said: "After this, I will consider the hand raised to the physician, raised to the health worker. We have established a parliamentary research commission, but so far we have not seen any results; unfortunately, in this process the health workers continued to be beaten and insulted. Nothing came out of the commission, and now, I think there's a public opinion that if a job is being transferred to the House Research Commission, there's nothing coming out of it. I think it's as much a problem for health workers as it is for the reputation of the High Assembly. Hopefully, the work of this commission begins to bear fruit, and in health, people can now start working in healthy environments where they can do their jobs without being beaten, abusive, and in good health. Yes, one of the applications brought by Project Transformation in Health is SABIM, an organization designed to defend patient rights, but it is so misdirected that the health worker is questioned the moment the patient is wrong or wrong. However, the passing of this through a mental filter is actually going to solve a lot of problems, whether these men are right or wrong. So, think, the patient is coming -- not sick -- says: I don't feel like going to work. How much do you want? I want ten to five days. The doctor says, "I'm sorry, I can't report to you because you're not sick. The patient is leaving here to go to SABIM. The doctor didn't do my job. And this doctor is called to testify after that. My dear friends, I mean a class of professions, especially a class of professions that we trust with our health, our lives, so much, what good is it to see so many enemies? I'm really having a hard time understanding that. I mean, it's both in terms of management and in terms of patients. The patient, on the one hand, threatens to cause trouble for himself while searching for a cure for himself. It's impossible to get out of this system like this. However, there's no way to deny that the Prime Minister and our former Minister of Health -- we haven't seen the actions of the new one yet -- is their most important role in today's violent spiral of health, when they are constantly targeting health workers, taking high wages and not doing their duty in return. I hope the new Minister will give up such practices, such rhetoric. Speaking of health workers' fees, I'd also like to point out that health workers don't receive $10,000, $10,000, as they're told in public. Let me give you a living example of the wages they receive: a 22-year-old physician's monthly salary is $2,200, dear friends. I especially want the patients to hear it and know it. These people are keeping watch at night -- it's still a verb -- after the shift, they're working overtime until evening. Congressmans, have a little empathy. We work here from time to time, night, mornings, but the next day is either vacationed or the opening hour of the House is delayed. But these people, unfortunately, are trying to go to the police station and serve before their shift is over. So they're physically exhausted, they're morally exhausted, and then, you know, the classic patient-doctor fight starts. Now, please, let the Ministry end this shift to the following work -- this is a persecution, this is not a method of work -- as soon as possible. We want this from here, specifically, in private. My dear friends, you've formed the Community Hospitals Association, and you've seen hospitals as a commercial institution. Nowhere in the world, no state aims to profit from health, they have no such plans. Health is a service the state is trying to provide to its citizens in the principle of the social state. Now, to the establishment of public hospitals, let's not say anything. Gene, as I mentioned in my previous speech, the Minister of Health has made this practice: He appears to be the CEO of the hospital at the health department's hospital of Hakkari. You're looking at his assignment, the Chief of Staff at the Ministry of Health, you're looking at his other assignment, and I'm throwing it away, the director at the Çanırı Hospital. Why would they do that? The only reason is that being an undersecretary of the government, being a staff manager, it must not have been enough for these friends, the health department, who worked there, people, to earn and earn money for my house. I've told the new Minister before, and I hope that this unfair gain will stop at once, and he'll return these people to his duties as soon as possible. If being an undersecretary in the government isn't enough for our friends, then they can go and be chief of staff at that hospital, and we have no word for them, and the Ministry can appoint them chief of staff, but you're gonna be an undersecretary of state, and you're gonna be with the minister, and you're gonna show your way, and you're gonna look like a hospital director in a country you don't know your way, and you're gonna get thousands of dollars in return. There would be no such practice, such an application would be incompatible with no legal system, with no conscience. Yes, my dear friends, again, within the framework of this Community Hospital Association, there were chief systems in educational hospitals, and they woke up one morning, and they were no longer chiefs. What happened? The chief of chefs was invented. Five or ten chefs connected to one chef and all their powers were cut off. These people have lost all rights by studying for years, taking exams, and this practice is still, unfortunately, continuing. Friends, when you say health, of course, not only do doctors have problems, but there are paramedics. Nurses don't get enough of the return capital, they don't get enough of their permits. The hospital, if she feels like it, if she feels like it, if she feels like it, if she wants a day off, if she wants a day off, she'll pay for a shift, there's no standard procedure, so it's not sure if she's going to go home the next day, or if she's going to work overtime, or if she's going to get paid for it. We've told this to the Minister over and over and over again, but he's kept blocking our ears. I'll tell you another practice: I don't know if you've been in any state hospitals, but I've told you over and over again, you've been living as a conservative government, but you haven't been able to keep a nurse between a patient and a doctor. The patient's there, the doctor's there, she's got no nurses, no secretaries. Besides, medical ethics, morality dictates that there must be a nurse here. You leave the patient and the doctor alone, and after that, either they're fighting or there's some other kind of speculation going on. Mr. Secretary, I'm warning you once again, please have a nurse present at the doctor's office. It's your duty because it's not a luxury. That's the patient's right, too, if we're going to defend the patient's rights. Again, there's a problem with back-to-back capital payments, my friends: they're already the least paid people in hospitals. You start handing out return capital, and it's said to these people that because your salary is low, we can't give you too much spinning capital. Now, where's social justice in that? He's already underpaid. You're giving him less return capital, and for good reason, you're showing him less pay. Is it that hard to change this coefficient? Is it that difficult to change this application? Yes, my dear friends, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0021par0357	Yes, thank you. The People's Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal from Demir Çelik, Müsh MP.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0022par0360	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the opening of a parliamentary investigation into the conditions of physicians and health workers of the National Movement Party. I salute you all with respect and love. Even though it's a promise against me, I'll continue to speak in favor. First of all, I'm going to start by delivering my wishes for a healthy society and a healthy, free future. Health, as we all know, is one of the essentials of both individual and society. If the individual begins to become a healthy element and personality and to conduct his political, social activity, the society will have the self - confidence and the conditions of being a healthy society. In this respect, the approach of the world Health Organization and the free country health services as a whole is a form of spiritual, physical, political, social well-being. In this framework, health has to be accessible, accessible, qualified, without money, equal. In this framework, he determines that it is the constitutional and legal right of all people who have the right to health, who can be sold, who can be bought, who should not be approached as a meta, who have the right to individuality and personality. The health approach, which also has a place in our Constitution, is a part of the Constitution that feeds on the Constitution, and also describes us in law and regulations, continues to be a problem that we have not been able to overcome for many years. This is a social injury that we have encountered in the 11 years of AKP's power, which we have yet to overcome, which is unfortunately the despair of still hurting our hearts. In health as in any problem, the AKP has launched the implementations of the concepts of subcontractor and metamorizing global imperial forces, which it wants to market, subcontractorise and metalyde, with short-term solution parameters, which saves the day by approaching and resolving the basic needs of society. Remember, we often discussed here the legal proposals for the transfer of public hospitals or public hospital troops to private firms, companies, to private companies, which began with the green card and, unfortunately, began with the green card and claimed that the entire community would be subject to social security, and then passed through all our objections, despite our opposition. From this frame, we see the problem as a problem that needs to be discussed. Health is essential to society as well as to individual, individual... Especially considering the fact that a country like our country has completed its last 30 years in conflicted processes, it is possible to see negative reflections of this conflicting process in all parts of society. Political, social trauma has become so deep that we individuals in the captivity and influence of this trauma have almost reached the point of giving up our rights to self-self, political initiative and personality. If we had been healthy individuals, we would have insisted on being able to maintain our own rights with the confidence we've gained, as well as the removal of obstacles to the liberation of society, the lack of justice and demand for equality, and we would have been able to turn this House into a parliament where freedoms live. But unfortunately, we're holding back. I don't think this Congress deserves a role in how to represent the interests of some of the global powers that have given up their original job. And from this framework, first of all, the Change in Health Project is a project that needs to be renovated from our side to ours, to be reassessed, to be analyzed. In this project, above all, it is unfair to categorize public hospitals according to the premium paid by the person, in violation of the principle of equality given us by the Constitution. (A), (B), (C), (D), the public hospitals you refer to as, depending on the height of the premium paid, from which hospital, who, and how to benefit, we categorize the class and society, and we encourage this injustice from the start, as instruments of the state and state. Even if a person is paying a $100 premium, even if he's paying a $500 premium against the Constitution, then it's the same thing as being a social state, and seeing this principle of equality in health and in any public hospital should be an area where his rights as a social and psychological entity can be applied. But we didn't just put it on a bill like this, we turned public hospitals over to private companies that could buy the health of those who had money. In the need of private companies to subcontractor and market, we've converted hospitals into capital deposits, hospitals into places where capital management can live, where all forms of non-sanitary practice and all other purchases, other than debates or healthcare services, have been forced to sell. We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't find a healthy society. We didn't just market public hospitals through managers and acquisition managers that we put on public hospitals, treated as a company above it, but as a product of subcontractorization and marketing, we also kept public hospitals dysfunctional, more advantage than the private company opened hospitals, loans, national and international market opportunities, and we endeavored to buy the health that society wanted by turning them into capital-saving areas. In this way, it remains a situation that we express and oppose when we have every opportunity that is of no use to us and to our future. And in that framework, Mr. President, valued lawmakers, first of all, if we decide to present tomorrow's democratic common country, where we can create a race, religions, languages, identities, cultures, regardless of the difference, on the basis of equal citizenship, free, equal citizens, to present our tomorrow, we have to bring this justice to the conditions that can, first and foremost, live in this field. Health can't be postponed in that sense. Health is too valuable to be abandoned to the sovereign; health, health, goods and property of power, or to be left at the mercy of the capital owner; society's own property; its right to use it, its right to the community, its opportunity, and standing at a point that makes it easier is the will of the House. Because that's what Congress is for. When we can't do that, it's a society facing a increasingly psychological depression due to political and social trauma, with the other side, anatomical, physiological needs that can't be met in a natural, democratic and egalitarian sense, including the existing, active, not expected to have a role that fits its purpose. On the contrary, those who are faced with this and similar inability and inadequacies from these individuals will also be given the opportunity to use their weakness to organize it on a malicious, ulterior motive, some non-processing interests and interests. In that sense, this law must be brought to the agenda of the Assembly in a manner that will certainly, certainly serve to investigate the conditions of physicians, health workers. In this particular way, I would like to wish you a good day by saying that we respect all of them, especially those who contribute to our health, those who add value, all the health workers, and their equal jobs.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0023par0369	Thank you. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/04/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. The Turkish National Assembly agenda (10/21) was proposed for the meeting of the Central Assembly Research Front, which is part of the General Assembly's Forum for Assembly Review (the planned nuclear plant in Mersin-Akkuyu, with its impacts on human and animal health and food, in order to determine all the measures needed to be taken, especially in order to determine the effects of its impacts on food (10/21). The Republican People's Party has chosen Vahab, Mersin MP, who wants a word in favour of the group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0024par0384	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Van, I congratulate the people of Van for the 95th Year of Salvation in our province, bow before our beloved martyrs, and remember them with respect. My dear friends, this is about nuclear danger, and it's about human health, environment, food safety. You know, Turkey is making its first attempt at the nuclear power plant, its first installation in Mersin. Actually, this story goes back a long way. In 1976, it was licensed in place, and according to the conditions of that day, some scientific research is being conducted, ground study, oceanographic research, climate, environmental conditions, that day's production, agricultural production, et cetera, and so on. Last semester, my friends in the 23rd-century Parliament know that at that time, we had a talk about the nuclear power plant to Akkuyu, and this law passed through Parliament. It was given to a firm in the tender way earlier, but at that time it went to trial, it decided to stop the prosecution, but the AKP government went behind the law and brought it to Parliament, where an international agreement status is now being conducted in Mersin, where a Russian company will build a nuclear power plant. In spite of who? In spite of everyone, of course. In spite of who? Despite national will. In spite of who? Despite the people of Mersin's refusal in particular, despite the rebellion of Mersin's people, there has been a persistent nuclear power plant there, despite the fact that there have been numerous meetings in this area so far. So, why Mersin? Why do we object so much? What kind of city is Mersin? Geography, political structure, socioeconomic structure, demographic structure, economics? Why do we have to rebel so much? Mersin, you know, the pearl of the Mediterranean is a city. Mersin is one of the gates of Anatolia via the Mediterranean, Turkey by means of the port of Mersin, perhaps its most important gate. It has a population of 1,700,000 square miles. The main sectors in the economy are agriculture, tourism, trade and transport. One of the most important features of Mersin is its cultural structure, demographic structure. Mersin means Turkey; Turkey means Mersin. You can find the mosaic of Turkey in Mersin. All ethnic structures living in Turkey are possible for you to find all the members of the heavenly religion in Turkey, the religious groups in Mersin. Mersin is a city of peace. If you are to rule peace in Turkey, the starting point is Mersin. Well, in a socioeconomically important city of Turkey, why do you place a nuclear bomb in the heart of that city, why do you insist, we find it difficult to understand it; it's not the work of reason, it's not the work of nature. Now, I'm speaking to all my fellow lawmakers here, not only my friends from the Republican People's Party, but also my friends from other political parties: there are four political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all of whom have members of Mersin, all of whom have BDP, and the CHP has the MP, and the CHP has the AKP. I want my four-party congressman friends to be sensitive about this. My dear friends, this is not the end of the danger of Mersin. While struggling on this subject, the people of Mersin were drawn to the hail, so to speak, as they fled from the rain. See, I'm saying that Mercury is a tourist basin, Mersin is an agricultural basin, but that's where all kinds of energy sources are being built, like an energy basin, and they're building a nuclear power plant. You haven't heard eight wrong at the moment, there are eight thermal power plant projects, eight thermal plant projects in the tourist city of Mersin, and now two of them are in the CED stage. There are two cement factory projects, and they're in the CED phase. Mersin is a town in the district of Tarsus, where there are enormous natural beautys, endemic plants, faunas, and fluorines, where there are HES projects. There is a HES project in the village of Köllpınar, in the village of Tarsus. In every sense, energy sources are used as hydroelectrics, thermals, nuclears, as if they were a test board in Mersin. There's no way to accept it, there's no way to understand it. While we wait for tourism to develop in Mersin, look at the obstacles we face while we wait for agriculture to grow in Mersin! The AKP's power has not struck a nail in Mersin in ten years. He's taking revenge on the people of Mersin. Why? Because the AKP has never succeeded in the municipalities in Mersin. He didn't succeed in the big city, he didn't succeed in the counties. He's confessing today. He gave the people of Mersin a ticket. Since 2007, I have been a member of the Turkish National Assembly. The airport will be built, its story goes back fifteen years. The Tartarus-Winning Coast Band project has been on this story for six years; it has not moved a length of barley. Here are the 2013 Mediterranean Games; there are 11 different facilities or older facilities that will be remodeled, two months from now, the Mediterranean Games will begin in two months, but many facilities are in danger of not being completed. Now we say we don't want a nuclear power plant on any side of Turkey, not just Mersin. I have friends here who are congressmen, from eighty-one different provinces, no member of parliament would want a nuclear power plant within its own province. Naturally, we Christians don't want that either. My dear friends, I've just said, as I begin my words, Mersin is Turkey, Turkey is Mersin. One of the most important cities in Turkey's interior is Mersin. Gaziantep, Adana, and Mersin are the busiest immigrants in the East and Southeast Anatolian region. The unemployment rate in Turkey is at 8 to 10 per cent, while the unemployment rate in Mersin is 15-20 per cent today. If you invest in these sectors, that will fail these sectors, instead of making investments to develop tourism, instead of making investments to develop agriculture, you would be doing bad to the people of Mersin. The main purpose of us giving this proposal... is that these investments are the wrong investments. We believe that these investments pose significant dangers both to environmental health and human health and food credibility. There are examples of this. There's Fukushima, there's Chernobyl. We need to learn from these. As the Prime Minister said, the danger that nuclear power plants will create to the environment is not as innocent as the danger of the gas we use in our homes. For him, we would like the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to form a commission on this issue and to be thoroughly investigated. We want Parliament's support on this matter. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0025par0398	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yunus Kılıç, Kars MP.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0026par0401	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, of course, I think it's important to know a little bit about something, to understand what the world is doing about it, to first say it's good or bad. Nuclear power plant... of course, why is Turkey going down this road, why is Turkey trying to build a nuclear power plant, what is the world doing about it? Friends, we need to know that there are 442 boards in the world today and 64 nuclear plants that continue to be built and programmed. We see that in civilization, in technology, in the economy, the countries we're looking to imitate, the countries we're trying to reach, the countries we're trying to reach, especially in tourism, in Europe, and this, in the world of agricultural and animalism that we're looking for, the top ten, agricultural exports -- especially in the United States -- are providing almost 75 percent of the energy of the countries from nuclear plants. Well, isn't there something negative about nuclear plants? Can't something happen to nature, to the environment, to the animal, to the human? Yes, of course. But Turkey strives to build these nuclear plants with the latest technology, with technologies that are not in Fukushima, or in Chernobyl, as you refer to them. Five security measures are set up in Turkey and in those security facilities, respected lawmakers are one in three hundred million to one in an accident. Look, in this era when Turkey needs so much energy, in the vision of 2023, it's clear that we're going to need 500 billion kilowatts of energy, and that even if this country can use all of its renewable energy, it can't get close to half of it, but how do you try to undermine such a well-intentioned enterprise on the possibility that there's one in three hundred million? Is that good or good for the country? Why don't you do the math, the book? Now, friends, I'd like to make a point of my experience, or rather, I'd like to emphasize the significance of this event by describing a moment. At Kars Kafkas University, one day, I heard there was going to be a lecture on this matter. We heard from the U.S. that the scientists were coming and that there would be detailed hearings on the matter, so we thought we'd join in. And what's more interesting is that in these academics, in the United States, we heard that one of the teachers in the organization was from Kars, and we said, let's get to know a scientist like this and understand what he's saying. Friends, in three or four hours of meetings -- we've listened with our ears -- the conclusion that we've come up with is that one of the countries that first use this technology is the United States and the West, where they're doing so much of it, when they're getting their energy from here, when they're developing their economies, when they're exporting products to the world, when the country's income level, when it's raising living standards, when it's taking jobs like us out of their own country, and it's time for the people they've brought in, it's time to be used by you. You go back, you tell the countries that intended this kind of damage, but as they continue to do it themselves... at the end of the meeting, friends, we asked: "Ya, Hodja, you say good, but you're in charge of it?" Do you mean that other societies -- other than Americans, other than the British, other than the French, other than the Germans -- have no reason to do this? You mean you can't build this technology? Why should we not take advantage of this energy when the world is carrying on in such an exaggerated way?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0027par0405	The third generation did it with technology.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0026par0406	Look, guys, it's not true. Look, this technology has reduced greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent in recent years around the world. So to prevent climate changes around the world, to protect agriculture, animalism and human health, to prevent environmental pollution, the world is going back to nuclear energy to prevent and increase biodiversity. Look, nuclear energy is the cleanest and safest form of energy in the world right now. With all this in the middle, with all this, why are you against it? Look, there's a Metsamor Nuclear Plant in Armenia that runs this business right next to us with the oldest technology. Why don't we all work together on this?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0027par0408	Yes, let's, you're right!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0026par0409	It's 10 miles away, just below Kars. It's old technology, it's out of use. Now, when we try to build it, I repeat -- we're building a technology with a five-level security system, and with these two nuclear plants that we're going to build, hopefully, we'll be able to meet six-tenths of our energy needs. While Turkey is a clear, clear energy importer country, paying $55 billion a year for energy, and developing our policies based on renewable energy, why are you opposed to these plants that are able to build wind energy, geothermal energy, sir, water, hydropower, thermal power, as they continue to build our power plants from one side? Look, if these two plants start working in three years, if they start coming back, they're going to be able to finance themselves in three years with the energy they're going to provide.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0027par0410	No way!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0026par0411	So around 40 billion Turkish liras will return to Turkey when these two plants are finished. So the recycling of plants, friends, these massive plants, these plants, these clean power plants that will meet about one-sixth of Turkey's energy, will be back in about three years. Is there any point in being against it? Animals, in terms of people, of course, are being evaluated. Yes, if you don't take the precautions, if you use them badly, if you spread their gases into the atmosphere, spread them around without cooling the wastewaters, sir, the strontium, the plutonium, the toryum, if you can't protect them, if you can't get the iodine to people, to animals, of course, you can cause radioactive events like carcinogenic thyroid cancers, skin cancers, skin cancers. But that's the trouble with plants like the Metsamor. I want to make it clear that there are no issues to be feared in the modern and world-class power plants that Turkey is trying to build. Look, there's been an incident in Chernobyl, yes, the world has suffered enough, and it continues to suffer. The plant we're going to build, hopefully, is going to be a plant that can withstand an earthquake the size of 9. Friends, huh, bigger than nine? If you think it's bigger than nine, then we couldn't have done anything. Technological measures are enough to protect them. Look, there are four important greenhouse gases that are released into the atmosphere -- currently in existing plants -- especially in fossil fuels -- released greenhouse gases that change the climate, animals, people, plants -- which have very negative effects on animals, people, plants -- that reduce the biodiversity, destroy some races; carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and sulfur dioxide gasses that are supposed to be done, are not to be given to the atmosphere, hopefully, in nuclear plants. One of the most important reasons the world is trying to do these nuclear plants right now is to reduce the emissions of these greenhouse gases, stop climate change, reduce environmental warming and maintain biodiversity. If we're planning another goal out of these plants, well, okay, it's a difficult process, needs to be protected, needs to be taken, the government is us now, we need to take precautions, but I want you to be sure that this is what the world now sees as the cleanest form of energy, and this is what the country has set its goal according to its vision of 2023. I think it will be good for our country, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0028par0417	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Ali Öz, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0029par0420	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the People's Party on behalf of the National Movement Party about the damage of the nuclear plant in Akkuyu. I salute the High Council. It's not surprising to hear the words of the precious MP who spoke against the request of this Parliament before me, so it's possible that if there were any more, we would have equipped all over Turkey with nuclear power plants. He would have used his statement, and he really surprised us. Let's not forget that perhaps the environment is the most important legacy we can all leave to future generations. Therefore, we all have to be sensitive about the environment. We're not talking about nuclear technology not being used in any field, nuclear technology being a very harmful technological model. However, in a country where most Western countries have completely removed it from practice today, even in energy production, where they have given up nuclear lobbying as a nuclear production model, the desire for those who operate nuclear lobbying plants to transfer the old technology to Turkey as a dump, and as a result of this transfer to other areas of Turkey, of its economy, of its budget, to bring us to the Akkuyu province of Mersinin Gülnar, where this nuclear plant should really be investigated by the Parliament. As the spokesman for the Republican People's Party in Parliament has expressed here, I really want the Mersin MPs to see the truth at the point when I'm speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, while I'm doing my speech on this matter, being sensitive and polling in that area. Of course, nuclear energy has been used for energy production for many years in most of the world, but each country has gradually given up. In countries implementing the nuclear energy model, one of the most important problems of nuclear plants is nuclear waste. While there are still no permanent storage fields for nuclear plants' waste in the world, these wastes don't disappear in millions of years, while there is a possible accident, loss of life, and widespread environmental impact, while nuclear plants exceed the cost of maintenance and security, nuclear plants have nothing scientifically defendable. In terms of the nuclear plant, the plant that you want to build on Mersin is a commercial city, a geographical property of Mersin, an agricultural city of Mersin, a city of tourism, in order to know the damage it will do to Mersin. With the nuclear power plant you built, none of the basic agricultural products growing in that area will be worth anything. As a result of their contamination with nuclear waste, there will be a massive impact on the agriculture of that region, with the effect it will have on human health. There are some among you who know and see. Akkuyu, planned to build the nuclear plant, is perhaps one of Turkey's most likely destinations for tourism on the coast. Go see that town. Especially when the tourist season begins -- our friends in that area, they need to know very well -- we're fighting together to destroy a region that will give you a lot more -- a lot more energy from the nuclear power plant to the state. Although the motive for the nuclear power plants planned to be established in our country is shown as a need for energy -- therefore -- in Turkey, especially to make renewable energy models more active, to re-examine energy policies, to address our deficit at the energy point in Turkey. Let's not forget that electricity production costs per kilowatts per kilowatt hour through nuclear energy,.05 cents at hydropower plants, 2.5-3 cents at coal plants, 4 cents at natural gas plants, and the average cost of nuclear power per kilowatt is 7.2 cents. For 7.2 cents, there is no insulation of radioactive waste, the cost of dismantling reactors that complete its life, the costs that could have been caused by accident, the costs for public health, the costs that could have been raised in terms of human and environment. Russia will provide all the technology and raw materials of the nuclear plant, which was planned to be established in Akkuyu, under the government's agreement to build and operate a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu. Also, Russia will sell us his electricity for 12.35 cents -- except for VAT, guaranteed to buy for 15 years. With this project, Turkey will pay Russia about 71 billion dollars in fifteen years when our country has no need for nuclear power plants. By owning a nuclear power plant, nuclear technology or nuclear weapons do not exist. Dear lawmakers, we as the National Movement Party -- as I said in the beginning -- are not opposed to nuclear technology. As you all know, nuclear technology has an indispensable use in industrial, agriculture and animalism, especially in medicine and health. However, in order to reduce Turkey's energy dependence on energy, we feel that it is not right to impose an old-tech nuclear system without effectively and sufficiently operating renewable energy fields. According to Turkey's technology policies today, it is no more than a dream. The deal with Russia has already been cut off from the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, which will be fully owned by Russia, and from our production of nuclear technology and nuclear weapons. Of course, nuclear waste eventually brings important risk factors for human health. There's no way we're going to take on the cancer-producing effect of radiation on the endocrine organs, especially on the genitals, that we would never want to happen to anyone who's around them. Just knowing that one of these will develop, when there are other areas of open space -- let this plant be built here, for energy, there's energy. I don't think we have the right to contaminate this area like this. Therefore, with this plant planned to be built in Akkuyu district of Mersin, the region will have no profit in trade, in agriculture, in tourism. In particular, when you consider the other regional differences in the field of agriculture, the efforts to build the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant will come at the beginning of the worst evils that will be done to Mersin, a narciatrist's paradise. With nuclear waste, you would, of course, normalize climate change, but on the contrary, it is important to remember that as a result of the spill of nuclear waste into normal sea water, sea water would heat at least 2-6 degrees [2-6 degrees], the ecological environment in the sea would break down, so it would go to human beings -- even fish -- in the shape of a cone -- to harm human health. Finally, I'd like to say that nuclear plants are not a source of energy to be praised on any side, but for Turkey, it's a model that others insist on forcing on us. It needs to focus on low-cost sources of energy, used as renewable, without damaging the environment and human health and destroying natural resources in its name. Of course, these are wind, sun, geothermal, biomass and hydrogen. Turkey has a rich potential in this area. Energy -- production, savings -- with effective, efficient policies to use, with central projects supported by scientific studies, with energy policies that will be created without need of nuclear power plants, is possible to avoid nuclear threat and economic cost, and I salute the Grand Assembly with my compliments.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0030par0437	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Ali Ercoshkun is a member of the Bolu MP.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0031par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. Of course, today I made another promise against a group proposal, as it did against earlier suggestions. The Republican People's Party has certainly brought up a matter of importance in its own opinion. Of course, thank you, but there are some points that need to be highlighted because it's one of the things that the Republic of Turkey has recently spent most on energy -- in the most obvious part of the Republic of Turkey -- is the money that it spends on energy; it's all of us know that. Therefore, nuclear power plant investments, which we think are very important to Turkey in order to address the diversification of energy provided under the Ministry of Energy as the Republic of Turkey's government, are also on the agenda. Some criticisms about these nuclear plants are also due to the technology of the past, but you have to say from here how inappropriate these criticisms are. Because it's one of the most tourist attractions in the world -- you know -- Paris. Do we know that there is a nuclear power plant 90 kilometers from Paris? In the same way, Madrid is one of the world's largest tourist attractions, and there are many nuclear plants 50km away from London, 70km away. There are 14 nuclear plants on the Loire River on France's world cultural heritage list. Therefore, having these plants does not prevent tourism on that river, nor does it prevent agriculture. In agricultural exports around the world, all the top ten countries have nuclear power plants. America's first in the world in exports of agricultural goods, with a maximum number of 104 nuclear plants. We can say that France is the second country in the world in exports of agricultural products, where the most electricity is produced by 75 percent nuclear. Therefore, there will surely be criticism, surely there will be tencites, but it does not take away the fact that our country needs these nuclear power plants, which are now thought to be being built using the world's most recent technology. So, dear friends, I thank you for the Republican People's Party group proposal without further ado, but our agenda is clear. In the first week of April, on the first day of work, I wish that both this week and April would be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit01spe0032par0447	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0032par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with lawmakers. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Human Rights Review Commission, the European Union Compliance Commission and the Interior Commission reports, which are ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are beginning to discuss amendments to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management in the 4th ranking of Public Finance and Debt Management, İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayadın's Law Proposal for the Amendment to the Act on Compensation of Bankers in Payance Powers, Deputy Mustafa Baloglu's Law, Ankara MP İzzet Cet Cettin's Law on the Law of Public Financial Insurance Act of 4447, and the European Commission for Computing and Agreement of the Law on the Law on the Law on Compensation of Unemployment Insurance 4447. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed by 443 rows. Members of parliament, this bill will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya, has asked for the entire bill on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0033par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, it's turned into a classic bag of law, we've pretended to be combined with a lot of offers, on the insistence of friends, but aside from the coming bill, many of the materials have been added to the subcommittee during the Commission, and I think they're probably still working on the motion right now. First of all, I would like to remind the ruling group that this is not very healthy in the study of the House and the legal technique. Because, unfortunately, these urgent additions are impossible for relevant institutions to study, institutions that need to be considered. In this framework, we also have to adjust the arrangements that we have made after a while. We said that some of the issues that weren't discussed at the time, unfortunately, were not considered, even though we said so. In this law, Mr. Secretary knows... or rather he doesn't know, Mr. Sword has arrived, and I've returned because he knows, but the Minister doesn't know it. (x) 443 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0034par0031	Mr. Mehmet, he's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0033par0032	No, I'm looking for who's here, who knows if there's a minister or not because we're arguing upstairs.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0035par0033	There's an undersecretary.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0033par0034	Dear friends, Mr. Canikli, I'm trying to say that first I'll give you an example, but we'll talk about it again. There's a clause in it about the Foundation General Directorate. We got it out in 2008. We asked our friends, our Director General of the Foundations, our friends from the bank, everyone. We've issued this Parliament, and we've passed it through a bill brought by the AKP Group. So I'm going to give you a concrete example of what I'm saying, when you said it as if it didn't exist.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0036par0035	No, no, I know.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0033par0036	We also asked: other than the Foundation, there is no other institution with 51 per cent of its share in management or participation in the Foundation General Directorate. So this law was created by the majority in Congress, by you, by us, by you, by you, by you, by your suggestion, for the protection of the exclusive Foundation. Now, we haven't followed that in five years, and you come to me today and you say, "Let's put it away and let's not take it from the past to the present." That's what I'm trying to say, friends. That day, when I rushed, without thinking, without considering the criticism, there was trouble. It could be, and we talked upstairs, and we said, "Friends, here, this could be a lot." They said his reason. The bank is open to the public, like this, like this. It's a different matter, I say it in terms of procedure. The relevant clause of a law that we passed that day is not being observed. So, who made the law? We got it out as a coven. Now, because our own laws are broken, we make another law and eliminate what has happened from the past to the present. Now, there's a freak here, that's what I'm trying to tell you. That's it, sir, until the end of Saturday. We're going to work here. There's no such healthy working environment, or we're going to rush in, we're going to spend it as a bill proposal, we're going to give up the bill. Why? It doesn't happen very fast in the Plan and Budget Commission. So, we're asking the institutions, it's not happening. Let's not send this law into Plan Budget, but let's get it out of the commission quickly. You're coming back, and this time, we're taking the place of the judgment -- just as the execution took place. At this time, most of our laws are being passed from date to date. So give up this technique; let it come as a proper bill, get your opinion from the relevant institutions, and let's do it in a way that will effectively use public resources by putting alternative methods in front of us, by analyzing impact analysis in accordance with the regulation of drafting legislation. So, what else? It's like a puzzle board. There's stuff about the do-and-do. There's a clause in every law, my friends. I mean, here, the other day, when we passed the customs law, we talked. There's one there, and there's one here. You can get your hands on it. Let's do my work with the workforce. Is that a thing? We said a frame of law... Mr. Secretary is here. We explained it to the Minister. Now, Mr. Sword, I couldn't say exactly, Mr. Secretary, so let's go back there. You know. I said, I'm back, there's Mr. Sword. So, you don't know. We had to go on saying, "You don't know." Indeed, I mean, I delivered it to Mr. Babacan, and he said he'd take care of it, but now, again, there's 3996 again. We said we need to make a law as a model of public-private cooperation. E's waiting for the draft bill. Since when? He's been waiting since 2007. He became the Department of Development, so the DPT did it. If it's missing, let's discuss it, ask the relevant institutions. For others, let's give the High Planning Council or the Council of Ministers the authority to go through there, and they'll arrange the details. Every man for himself... Now, look, there's a clause here in the law. What kind of comedy is that? I mean, you could call it tourism investments, but what does it say? If it's for Bozcaada tomorrow, will we write it, too? I mean, I don't understand this kind of... That's what I'm trying to say, Mr. Canicli. If there's a need, you'll say: "The do-and-do model for cultural and tourism facilities can be used, the details are made by the Council of Ministers...." Anyway, so say something. One by one, one by one, one by one, there can be only one purpose: What if something happens here tomorrow, we won't go to court. Look, I'm saying things that can't even be written in the generalty. Stop the regulations, we're writing the law. That's not law enforcement, guys. So that's the essence of what we're saying. We'll discuss the content again. What happens when that happens? He's leaving in three days, so here you are, trying to get us to remove one of his substances without applying them. All right, let's get it up, we've told our friends, but here, sir, there's a lot of corporate taxes. Let's lower the percentage, if that's a lot, let's take something off the profits. Now, our friends are getting up... do you know what comes up in this situation? The information given to the Public Enlightenment Platform turns out to be false. Now, then, won't he be responsible? How are we supposed to lift it with this law? The money that should be paid since 2008... now let's protect the cultural assets somehow. You put it there, it has a good purpose, I looked it up. The foundation has its purpose, and it's obvious here. I just checked, the Foundation's profits in 2012 are 1 billion 460 million. I mean, now, let him pay you a few million, dear. I mean, who's gonna protect it? It's called 'Vakfbank.' Then don't let him use the name Quakfbank. If the name's a brand, if it's a name, if it's a name, then it's a foundation. He has sponsored activities, sporting activities, social activities, and that's one thing to think about. So instead of taking it out... Our friends say, "Sir, this is a public bank, and tomorrow it will be privatized, and there will be trouble. The public bank was also open to the people when this law came out." Not in 2008, but in 2006... all of these capital changes were already made when 2008 arrived. You've already taken 15 percent over 43 percent with capital increase in the name of the institutions. So when you take out this law, in 2008, both the Foundation is open to the public and the number of shares has already reached 58 per cent. I mean, how do we cover this up now? I'll give you the date from here if you want. Now, I mean, it's like cheating against the law. What is the date of the note sent to the Public Enlightenment Platform? February 17, 2008. When did this House pass the law? In three days. So when the law is discussed, we don't care about this law, we don't give money from here. Our friends immediately sent missing information, so there are three days in between. Now, either there was something wrong with us or there was something wrong with us. Now, we're making another mistake when we're correcting one mistake. If our friends fix this, there may be too much, let's drop it, but let's get him to give us some money from there somehow. Well, the way we're constructing it... now, it's coming, there are other motions, other institutions have debts. Let's find a model somehow. And we need to get that money out of there. Otherwise, who's going to fix the foundation's work, who's going to fix it? So he's getting regular income, okay. He says, "I'm getting a deposit." He says, "Well, it's different, but there's a law clause, we put it here." We all have to obey the Law in the Constitution, and we made that law. So take into account the criticism of the opposition that we say in these things, so that we don't waste our time here. We may be short, we may not agree politically with what you're saying, but in terms of procedure, at least we have to follow certain things. Mr. Canikli just said it beautifully, but unfortunately we can't see its application. We sit down, we talk about it. He said, "I'm afraid we didn't see much of what we said when it came to it. Well, that's the result. Now, dear friends, of course, this is due to lack of coordination, so let's get it out of the way in a hurry. We're seeing the same thing now, our friends mentioned it today, and Mr. President mentioned it in the group talk. Growth figures were released yesterday, and the same thing is still going on. Mr. Secretary here, as part of the job, the Central Bank... again, I looked, Mr. Cavalan says that the brakes were on. I mean, there's still the braking-gas debate going on. We need to find a common solution. There are those who say that ekonomi might have to brake in such an environment. We argue that we should step on the gas. But now, when we can't figure it out within ourselves, we can't get a complete lock on the goal this time. My dear friends, it's just that the elephant's got it right, the minister said, and so on and so forth, they banged the Central Bank, and he didn't say that. Look, what's the real problem? Now, you start with 4 percent, Minister, down 3.2 percent. Mr. Bilic, if Mr. Secretary takes note of this place, it's very important to the public, but you're saying something important.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0037par0047	We're all ears.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0033par0048	Now, we'll start with 4 percent, Mr. Secretary, we'll set the targets, you'll explain the medium-term program, fine, we'll put it in the budget. He's turning, he's not holding, he's at 3.2 percent, 2.2%. So, now, how did you calculate those income goals, tax targets? According to four percent, then we revised it according to 3.2. So, now, who are you going to get the tax revenue deficit from the difference in points? You'll go back and get it from the citizen. I mean, I said it during the budget talks. Every year, Mr. Finance Minister comes in September, when the middle-term program is being announced, the numbers change only, for the same reasons, sir, there are so many deviations from our budget, I have to close it before the year comes. He says, "We'll start taxes." Now, we're disrupting social justice, too, if these goals are not realistic. You could say, "Sister, 2.2% is good at this time, we're okay, we're good at it, but we're doing all our goals, all our investment plans, our consumption plans, as economic actors. So now we're looking at 2.2, we're looking at the subdivision, and who are we going to get it from here? There's a decline in industry and trade. Now, look, what we're saying is that agriculture -- we don't know how much -- is the part about transport, communications, a few infrastructures. The industry has fallen, so there's been a serious decline, trade has fallen. In the banking industry, here are three sectors that are above three, and the others are from 10 to 1. So if we don't take these measures in common, if we don't co-ordinate them in the economy, I'm afraid we don't have a chance to make those corrections. That's all we're saying, but we're looking at it, and our income isn't even up $50 per person, and that's the same thing when you write it down on a dollar, and there's a $38-40 increase, despite what we're saying. So, what do we do on the other side when there's no increase? I mean, how is this citizen gonna pay off his debts, how's the shopkeeper gonna put up with it? Now, interestingly, a friend of mine's phone was jammed, so he called his brother on my phone. Brother said, "Let me call you." I said, "Here you go." And then he texted me. He said, "Oh, he won't look." I said, "Why?" You don't seem to know anything about the business; they don't look at the tricks they don't know; they call a debtor, an operator, looking for something. I'm surprised. Brother, my phone is broken, I'm the one who called. He texted me, and then he came back, and he really came back after he got the message. I mean, the way the businessmen fell, the shopkeepers. I mean, the debt of the household has increased more than 70 stories in your power. Now, on the one hand, she sings beautifully, Mr. Prime Minister, I told you the other day, here, a few of our friends immediately objected. The IMF says it's due, but on the other hand, I said, well, you said it was IMF debt, so where did Turkey's debt come from? So you've only paid 25, you've got half, and in 2005, it's easy to show off. So who will pay off the debts taken on the other side? The point of our short-term debt supply is clear. As we look at the latest numbers, our foreign debt stock has reached 337 billion, our total debt supply has reached almost 550. You don't count the private sector's debt, so who's gonna pay them, who's gonna find their dollar? The private sector can't pay. We've explained the situation of the private sector, so how do you think it's going to do with the growth rates here? So the increase in industry dropped from 10 percent in 2011 to 1.9 percent in 2012. The increase in trade is 0.1 percent from 11.2... we're looking down, there's just something in the financial media companies, a little bit in agriculture, we don't know if it's realistic. Now, what's the business going to do? What will a citizen do if he can't pay his credit card? He borrows again, he borrows again. So it's not like you're trying to show it here, or as the Prime Minister said, it's not something that can be avoided immediately with pink paintings. So, you add it to the back as usual, because our exports are up here, but they never say imports from the other side, Mr. Secretary. We can't admit that our external trade deficit may still be a danger... in fact, the reason why Mr. Cavalan is saying now is that the demand is being braked to ensure a fall due to the current danger. Why did we hit the brakes? The Minister is here, as a brakeman. Why did we hit the brakes, Mr. Secretary? So we hit the brakes so we wouldn't hit it too fast. There's a problem in the world. They call it. Well, if there's a trade shortage in the world, shouldn't we be revitalizing the domestic demand? Where did the internal demand fall? We went to the minuses. Well, if there's trouble out there, if public spending is already at a certain rate, how do we reduce it if the private sector can't save money? For him, we need to put aside the words of the company and the unnecessary political infertility -- I always say -- and do some work that will take structural measures. I mean, sir, he said, that's what he said, and so on and so forth, there's no point in having a political debate because the president of the Central Bank did this. Turkey's problems are obvious. Do we have a chance to reduce unemployment under the circumstances? How are we going to open a new business if there's no resurgence in domestic demand, industry, trade investments increase by 1.1%, and one goes up by 0.1 percent? We took two digits, sir, and, look, we gave a million people jobs, jobs. What about the rest? What about those who didn't get into the statistics? So, please, let's stop this vicious political conflict, this process, and let's all take structural measures here. You'll be short, you'll have more, we won't all agree, but, please, let's review the Advocacy Act, not the bags, not the patches, but what really needs to happen. They said, "We're doing it. We're talking about this in November. It's been four months since the budget." Now you're putting these in a hurry. I don't know how it works, some of these law proposals... why don't we hurry them? I mean, we called it a tight-knit sectoral incentive, look, we've said it over and over again. So we don't object to the frame, we bring in the content, whether you accept it or not, but Turkey's issues have to be resolved. Look, I'm saying don't hold on to what we say, guys, don't listen to the opposition, it's okay. Our minister is here, with his undersecretary. Look, I'm not saying much about the proposals in the annual programme, the proposals in the annual programme, the proposals in the special admissions commission report, do it, do it, and I'll congratulate you despite what you're missing. So, what are we doing? There's something wrong with the law, the friends are missing, so let's complete it. So, in the process, we promised to change these laws, to change the Constitution. This doesn't feed us, it doesn't reduce our unemployment, it doesn't make our economy grow. Please, come, let's put economic, social issues together, and we can't spend it constantly with political things and infertile strife. I mean, there's funding in this, like, three, but we put a lot of stuff in it again. Why? Everyone's in trouble. Coming up now, our friends, the co-ops configuration, this is... So since we don't consult and argue and make laws, the relevant institutions, the DPT, the Treasury, the Prime Minister's office, some things happen in a rush of power logic, and unfortunately that doesn't happen. So, if we're going to be the leading country in 2023, where we're in charge, and you're behind it, we can't do it with vicious political disputes. Let's not let people down and learn from here and take the structural measures we need together. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0038par0059	Thank you. Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0039par0062	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I will speak on behalf of my group on the charge of bag number 443 concerning the law and the ordinance of the Government of Public Finance and Debt. My dear friends, before I speak, before we get to the point, there's no more serious law enforcement or law enforcement, so I'm telling you this very frankly. With regulations, whatever issues need to be carried out by notification, they all come before us as law. Last week, you remember, we adopted a 91-point bag of law here, it came from the Plan and Budget Commission. This week we're still discussing a 59-point bag of legislation from the Plan and Budget Commission. In these 59 articles, I've been sitting down, counting, there are 27 different laws involved. Now we're dealing with this kind of stuff, we're dealing with it. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, unfortunately, is becoming a law factory, so the issues that the bureaucracy should actually handle within itself are coming to our attention. The bureaucracy takes risks, the ministers take risks; we know it is; but unfortunately, everything is coming to us as a law, so there's a majority of power, so let's get it out, let's get it through the House. It's trying, and there's a lot of stuff in this bag of law, I'm afraid. There are some of you who are from bureaucracy, who will understand this, what I mean. But I'd like to bring this to your attention, dear friends. However, there are some very important issues within this bag of law. Unfortunately, we don't have a lot of people on the General Assembly today, but what's going on here -- it's going to be on the record -- I'd like to ask them to listen in particular, because it's very, very important, no matter how you look at it, there are very important changes. So far, on behalf of myself or my group, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babacan, we know that he is a very valuable person, a state-sensitive person, but in relation to this law, his provisions for this bag of legislation have upset us and failed us. I'd like to mention that in particular. I'd like to share some of my findings with you before I enter this bag into the matter of the law. These findings are generally about the economy. In particular, these are the reasons for this law to come. I'd especially like to share these with you, some findings. Now, there were some laws that got us out of this crisis in 2001 that got us out of the environment, you remember, there were five important laws, there were basic laws. What were they? One of them was the Banking Act, dated back then. Another is the Public Proposal Act. Another was a law that had changed the Central Bank of Turkey, which had changed 1211. It was a significant change. Another is the law that we're talking about with a lot of weight is the Law on Public Finance and the Editing of Debt Management. Another was the Public Financial Management and Control Law, number 5018. These five fundamental laws were the key laws that allowed us to get out of the crisis, and with them, financial discipline was provided, spending was limited, financial discipline was provided with these laws. Now, we've seen that since then... which, by the way, other laws have been passed, like the Numbers Act, but they've happened recently. Now, there are the opposite practices, there are significant deviations from fiscal discipline. Financial discipline is disappearing, unfortunately, constraints about spending are being lifted, expenditures are not under control, budget expenses are being taken out of the budget, for example, with models such as do-work, public-private partnerships, as if there's a little deficit in the budget. However, he has deviated from fiscal discipline, he's been severely misguided, he's in great trouble. Some revenues don't go into the budget. For example, revenues, such as incomes 2/B or priced military revenues, are not included in the budget, with them closing the treasury gaps. This attitude, of course, is a situation that will cause us trouble in the future, which has led us to further and further detract from fiscal discipline as a public figure. I have to make a special assessment of this, because that understanding continues with this bag of laws, which will increase budget deficits, which do not limit expenditures, I'm afraid. I'll make a second assessment: we're making modern regulations in accordance with the requirements of the global economy -- for example, we're drafting the Capital Market Law, we're drafting the Personal Retirement Act, as I recall, we're drafting the Trade Law, we're drafting the Law on Debts, we're making a law on Leasing. These are the beautiful, global economic laws that are required, but while we're implementing applications for global economy, foreign investors, we're doing wrong practices for our own citizens, our own institutions, our own firms; we're doing wrong jobs; we're restricting them, restricting their freedoms, preventing them from working in competition, I'm afraid, we're also doing practices. In particular, I'd like to point that out. And another thing that's really important is that there's a big liquidity out there, you know, outside the country, and the interest is very low. From outside to Turkey, we can easily find low-cost money. Unfortunately, we also allow those funds to be easily sold to the public through banks, to reach the public in a profitable way, but we're not doing it to increase production, we're doing it to increase consumption, unfortunately, and consumption, you know, has gone up a lot, and in return, debt in debt, debt in public has gone up a lot. The debt of the household, individual debt, credit cards and corporations is overcrowded. Why don't we direct these cash sources, liquid resources, the money we find into production, we increase imports, we increase consumption, it's impossible to understand. After that, we are troubled by 2.2 growths in 2012, one year after 8.8. Mr. Cavalan, I don't know, seems to be right because we've followed the wrong policy. Yeah, that's the wrong policy. In that sense, in my sense, wrong policies have been followed. Mr. Finance Minister also says that 2.2 growth is a huge success. Yes, with these policies, if you look at it that way, it's a huge success, it's supposed to be shrinking, it's supposed to be negative growth. Of course, there's no way to tell. Another issue, one of my findings, is that in the European Union progress report, we have recently been doing inappropriate jobs, making no improvements in the market economy. And this is a statement from the European Union progress report, which I'd like to share with you. The other thing is, let me tell you, the crisis that the world is currently experiencing is a debt crisis. So the world is in debt, in debt, in debt, and in the deepest crisis in the world. We're in the wrong, too, dear friends, and we, as leaders of the Turkish economy, are unfortunately doing so. Right now we're moving in a similar way to that crisis, we're in debt, we're financing consumption, we're not encouraging production. The conclusion of that understanding, as I have just said, is that we have found 2.2 things in 2012. In the meantime, Mr. Prime Minister, the Stock Exchange is going to steal Istanbul's gong on Friday, but in recent years, all IPOs have been damaged. I wonder what the Prime Minister will say when the Stock Exchange plays Istanbul's gong on Friday. I wonder if he's going to say it, but what excuse is he going to give? All IPOs recently have, unfortunately, resulted in damage. It has destroyed people, savings, and caused significant losses to our companies. Dear friends, with this bill, I'll skip some places because I'm running out of time -- we're expanding the potential for treasure guarantees again. We guarantee almost everything from energy to cultural investments, tourism investments, education investments. I mean, there's no such thing as a budget, of course, every issue is guaranteed. And we have a derivative product guarantee, and we've included derivative products, which is something an independent state shouldn't do, because you don't know how much risk you're taking in derivatives, you don't know why you're taking them, you don't know what time you're taking them. Unfortunately, we've done all this, and with this law, again, with this bag of law, we're bringing exemptions from over 60 percent -- so far -- and we're bringing exemptions from the Public Contraction Act. We're bringing in an exemption from court control again. We're bringing in general -- financial, administrative -- exemptions from 5018. Of course, what I'm seeing here is that the government has no economic coordination, unfortunately no coordination among the government's ministers of economics. I don't know about each other, but there's no way to tell if they're sitting down and seeing each other, if they're not co-ordinating their economic institutions. There's been some serious mistakes lately. Of course, by the way, the independence of the independent boards is gone. I mean, I told one of them at the Plan Budget Commission. Mr. Prime Minister, I asked him in the Plan Budget Commission to say that we will intervene before the decision of the Competitive Association to intervene in the matter of these last banks. I asked him to make it soft, so it's manageable, but I didn't get an answer. Hopefully, he'll answer here. My dear friends, one of the most important regulations in this bag law is the arrangement for last year's property rental company, the arrangement for the rent certificate, the arrangement for the sukukuku innera. We have a lot of citizens who are self-reliant, and they have a sense of trust, and they have a sense of interest, you know, and they want to go and invest in some non-interest-free instruments. That's normal. There's a market like this in the world. There's a market in the world -- Mr. Minister explained -- about 170, 180, 200 billion dollars in rent certificates. So far, so normal. Turkey also has a demand for a rent certificate. As I was saying, some of our citizens, with their credentials, want to make such investments. Turkey also had three supplies on the issue. One is $1.5 billion abroad; the other two are in the country, $3 billion. A total of nearly $6 billion, the rent certificate supply is intended to obtain a non-interested rent certificate. However, when this bill came to our attention, we learned that before this, Mr. Secretary, the company had not been given the authority to establish an anonymous company to build an asset-rentling company. There's no company. It's not an anonymous company, it's not registered, it's not the CEO, it's the management, it's the capital, it's nothing. What do you think? They wrote it down in a piece of paper: the company is set up. The General Manager gave it to him, he gave it to him...... to some real estate, ministry buildings that were sold on paper, so there's no registrations, there's no such thing as complete, qualified procedure, fraud, but there's been a process like this. Now, people think that we've gone, we've received a non-interest-free rent certificate. Look, it's very important because many theologians who know that the company is not founded on these matters have also said: "You can take it. " They are mistaken because they do not know that many of theological companies, Mr. Iskdin Karaman, were not founded or that the process was admissible. Look, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to read something about this: in the process of exporting the certificates of the treasure, the issue's Islamic status has also been discussed, although there is no such statement from the official authorities, it's interesting that the visual and written media of the period has kept these documents intensively on the agenda. The Union of Participants and some accession bank spokesman, among the institutions expected to be most sensitive in this regard, welcomed these certificates and stated that Islamic-sensitive environments would respond largely to the need for cash management. The HSBC bank's three-man fetal delegation in Bahrain has issued a fetish at the point that these certificates are non-interested. İşktin Karaman expressed his opinion at the point where the certificates exported from the Treasury are lawful and therefore investing in them. ( However, he looks at the transaction stream, and says that the precious theologian Doctor Servet Bayin says: "There is no sale and no rental process, as it is understood by the flow of the process. There is neither a sale nor a rental, for it is not possible to refer to a contract, which has a condition of buying back at the same price and at the same time. One of the most important conditions that Islamic scholars have on sale is that property goes to customers. Property gives its owner meaning with the presence of all legitimate savings in that property. He says it is not very clear Islamic. I mean, our government is fooling our citizens, I'm afraid. The current certificate application of the Treasury is not a legal and economic transaction, nor is it a rental process. It says that it is not a legal transaction, nor is it a legal transaction, nor is it a rental process. There's no such thing. I really don't. This is just a business of collecting money from the market in exchange for the property that the Treasury has pawned. He says this is a collection of loans from the market in exchange for some property that the treasure has pawned. The amount that the treasure pays under the rent price is the interest that is actually paid to investors. What do you think of that? What if a citizen of the state's confidence abuses his faith? Is that true? Look, if you believe in this state, if you believe in the law, it's a job the state shouldn't do; it's wrong by law, and it's wrong by state, and it's also wrong by Islam. That's not gonna happen. There's no way to tell when a citizen's being tricked like that. A parallel law is being created, an unpredictable law. Now we're trying to chart this with the relevant elements of this bag of law. It's not possible. If this is heard in Turkey, it will cause a great scandal, a terrible scandal. I want this to be known in particular. My dear friends, this bag is not just scandals in the law. There's something similar about the foundation. Mr. Mehmet just told me. And there, for the past, the Bank of Foundations had to pay the foundations -- roughly $756 million -- a sum was not paid, and this bag was tried to be corrected by the law. He's got to be responsible, he's got to be in charge, he's got to be in charge. Trying to fix it by using the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, when someone who reported to the gate should be punished for false, false notifications, it's impossible to understand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll continue with the relevant materials. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0040par0083	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Justice Kurt, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0041par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, if I tell you the name of this bill, which we've discussed as the basic law, three times, I'll have a minute and a half gone, because it's only called 20 words. At once, like this, reciting, reciting the name of this bill in a row, not every father has the right to say it. I'm going to read it once on paper because my memory is not strong: the Law on Public Finance and Order of Debt Management and the Law on Changes in Decisions of Some Laws and Laws...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0042par0087	What? Well, that's nice.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0041par0088	Say it again, say it at once, Mr. Feramuz, I will waive my right to speak; please, say it once. As a member of the ruling party, as a member of parliament, as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, recite the name I'm saying right now, and I'll stop talking. Now there's relief in the place they call it. From time to time, we have to move, move our house. We can either rent a new house, move in, or move in -- very few people in Turkey -- buy a house, move out. Now, you have a chance to pack your house's belongings in two sequences. One, carefully, you pack cups, plates, and you carry them unharmed, and you carry them randomly. But in this random transport, you break the china, you break the crystals, and someone comes after you, and they have to pick up what you broke. THAT is the way the AK PARTY conducts law making, and that is the way it is. Someone does it, breaks it, breaks the crystals, spills it, and someone has to come after you and pick up what's spilled with a broom and a dustpan. Now, a month ago, you met with Parliament, you passed it through Parliament, you published it in the Official Gazette; why did you need a new arrangement within a month? Because you work sloppyly, looking at the numerical majority, you work with great confidence, but you're having trouble getting the sentence together. Therefore, within a month, you feel the need to redesign the law, which was published in the Official Gazette. The bag has been brought before us by law, and so far, many unrelated regulations have been put in the same bag, and each time, despite our serious objections, these bills have been lawd by the majority of political power. We, of course, do not object to legal needs and improvements; we object to the method, we object to this random working arrangement. Look, because of your sloppy work, we have to address the pink seats in the ranks of power. Pink seat... we're looking at you on this side, two or three Plan Budget Commission members and a pink painting on the back. That's the result of such sloppy work on your part. Turn around, look, you'll see pink seats. Mr. Nurettin Demir has expressed that this is also demoralizing, and I hope you'll change that. Now, it's possible to see very clearly what I'm talking about in this bag bill. Look, part of the arrangements in this bill have recently been discussed and arranged in other laws and bills. I'll give you an example: 4749 is the Law, which is in the first place. Now, just yesterday, you brought the Customs Act before us as a bag of law. You've brought in the law on the electricity market arrangement, very well, now you're bringing it in, and you're changing it again, here, in this bag, within the law. What's with the sloppyness? I don't know, I think, Mr. Prime Minister doesn't have the opportunity to observe the lawmakers' performance due to their current tempo density, but I'm complaining to you, I'm actually complaining to Mr. Prime Minister because of this carelessness. There's no other way to arrange it, there's no way to fix it. What is this disorder, this carelessness? You're bringing in an arrangement involving the Justice Commission, arguing with the Plan and Budget Commission. What does the Plan and Budget Commission know about making criminal arrangements? It's what the Justice Commission is supposed to do, but you said it was called law, so you're getting it out of there. You put everything in it and you save yourself. Look, in Article 1... now that you've complained a lot about credit rating companies, you've complained in negative notes, you said "Tu poop." When they gave you a positive grade, you gave them the crown. And you set aside funds, you pay, you pay for that credit rating, you pay for it. In the first article of this bag, you put the term "strategic criteria" in the first article of the law. What's the strategic criteria? We really don't know. Securities... you don't explain what these assets are, even from the Plan and Budget Commission -- they're listed here in 12 articles, they're covered up. You can't identify this by hiding behind the concept of strategic criteria. The risk of debt, the risk of foreign debt... you're bragging about it, you're saying: "We don't owe IMF any more." But three years ago, you now owe money to international funds as much as the debt to the IMF four years ago. Explain your debt to international fund companies -- Mr. Secretary here. There used to be one IMF, now there are 40 IMFs. Explain, if you have any objections, you have a say, you have a say here... please explain Turkey's external debt to international funds companies. It's beautiful. Landways made, double roads built. E, these are all loans, loans to international fund companies. All energy investments, foreign investments, debt from international funds. There's another important point about item 1. My eight minutes were gone before I even got to the 2nd Amendment. I try not to pronounce the name of the law, but to save time. Now, a regulation dated 30/1/2003, Law 4802. Why did you wait ten years? I mean, why did you wait ten years to create a national fund, put EU funds together in a fund, put them together, and distribute them balancedly to the needs areas? Now, you might say: you're making a special effort to bring this in and connect it with the local government of BDP. It has nothing to do with it, but it's about one-on-one local government of BDP. The projects of BDP-based municipalities have been waited for ten whole years so that they do not benefit. Ten years later, the national fund is created. The European Union grant... you brought it up ten years later. And we'll probably wait for 2023 to go into practice, which is to apply the law, and that's how it looks. Shouldn't local government from BDP benefit? See, the municipality of Yüksekova was ranked fourth in the IPA Project until last year. The sewer project is one of the most basic investments, one of the local government's investment pens, and one of the primary investments. According to the European Union grant projects, and according to their grants, it is a priority investment. Last year, what number is the municipality of Turkey, which ranked fourth in the fourth place this year? You'd probably say he's up to number one. The other 3 have gone away, they've passed their projects, they've come to the municipality of Yüksekova. Whatever happens, it's down to 58, this year it's down to 58. Here's the app. If you wait ten years to fund it, that's what comes after it. I'm going to move to item two, so this is the asset rental company -- one of the main ingredients of this bag, one of the most important. This is because, for the first time in legal terms, this company is based on no law, only on the minister and thus exports three rent certificates. So, these companies, which are neither an employee nor a board of directors, and are not legally registered with the minister's signature alone, will actually have legal status with this arrangement. However, I'm going to look into what this lawless, virtually functional company will do, what it will bring to this country, and what it will bring to this country. These companies are not subject to the rules of shapes in the bill, the institution and the use of unmovable goods, the purchase, the rent, the free period of these assets, the price or the free period of these assets... look, it's very important, you put the legislation aside, it can break the law, it can go out of routine. That's a new concept. In the past, we've learned from Mr. Demirel, we've found out about the irregularity, we've seen the practical practices, and now, here, a pattern of irregularities is being put back in front of us. The situation is similar in Article 8; likewise, we will see the same tribulation there. Now, you're doing it in Article 2 of the article 8 of the article, and in Article 8 of the article 8 of the article... except for rent certificates to be exported and papers related to the export of rent certificates, stamp tax and tuitions and public administrations under these administrations... they say that it's possible to harm these administrations or to harm them, but you've lost 100 per cent of the money, but you've lost 100 per cent of the money. So, now, who's going to back away from a 100 percent profitable investment? It's not possible. It's useful to everyone. Who can use it; it's very important. Now, what are all these arrangements based on? It is the ability to attract international capital to Turkey. It was broadcast on TV today, and as of today, the performance of a company that distributes interest-free income certificates was immediately broadcast. We'll draw the international capital here. If you lose while you're pulling here... what you're telling the international capital is that if you make a mistake, we'll vouch for your losses, we'll cover your losses. So no harm done. We also provide you with a profit margin on international criteria. You give this guarantee, and then you try to attract international capital. What are you shooting as? And as far as investment pens go, you're not. So he won't come to any city of Anatolia to run a factory in his town, he'll come to earn money with hot money. There's no investment involved. The government is expanding the gambling table in this area, opening up the business of money with interest. Somewhere along the line, yes, it's an interest-free income, but it's a huge deception, and there's interest there, too. If you have an economist who can make that distinction between interest and profit, let him tell us, and we'll never use that terminology again. But, without an investment pen, without a real investment, you can call the income that comes from money when it's being supplied the same thing as you or your share of the money, it's the same thing, it's the same thing. You're supposed to be an alternative to the Moscow market...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0043par0106	Moscow? For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0041par0107	Yeah. ...you'll be an alternative to the Russian stock exchange. In total, you want a pen within 3 percent of all the hot money cycles in the world. Your potential now is about one-fortyth of the money that flows to Russia. I mean, you can't even be him. Turning Istanbul into a trading centre, into a financial centre, such zeal is futile. If you develop real-investor, job-building economic policies, we support them to the end. Let people eat bread and invest money, but they don't serve it. Instead, 20 years ago, a Turkish businessman said -- I don't want to mention his name -- I'm not stupid enough to take my money and deposit it in a factory and kill 2,000 workers, I'm taking it to the stock market, I'm sitting at my computer, I'm getting my winnings. This is the cycle that's being served. If you reverse this cycle, you will succeed. In Turkey, the effort to survive the economic crisis is still necessary to eliminate the enthusiasm for the hot money cycle because that risk is on our doorstep. The only way to eliminate this risk is to return to real investment, to encourage real investment. It's been announced for a year. Mr. Prime Minister counted the certificates received today. How many of them have come to life in practical practice? Just say the word and we'll know. We can't get out of this by counting the number of certificates. We know very well, we've been certified before. There have been feeding activities in incentives that have never, ever been brought to life. Someone took this money, put it in his pocket, who asked for it? He's been known to feed in government inventory, so who checked it, who followed it? The current system holds a wheel like this. Let's turn this wheel around, but the condition of turning this wheel is that it goes through careful, careful work, this shape. There's no way we can fix what we did a month ago by changing after a month, by torturing ourselves. First of all, the ruling party will recognize the seriousness of this. They will show this seriousness so that we can support it as opposition. We don't really know where we're gonna get this bill from, this bag of law. There are no sides to which we agree at all. A bill was delivered, and I think the representatives of the four parties signed it. Well, good, but don't bring 40 bad things like that with one good, that's wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thirty-nine came to the commission, and that's how many new items were added until they were released from the commission. I assure you, if he'd been on the commission for another week, he'd have come here with 59, 79. That's the working system. I salute you all, thank you. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0044par0119	Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0045par0121	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on Bill 443. I salute you all. Dear friends, many of my friends here have told me, and I would like to say for once, that the law must be made with long preparations, sound plans and accurate predictions when the law is being made. We're used to making laws with short-term solutions, limited and underprivileged, like smuggling from a fire. It's really a classic AKP bill that's being discussed. Now, when you look at this bill, my friends have also expressed that if I didn't count it wrong, it refers to all five different laws as it changes the law of 22 laws, the law of 2 laws. Interestingly, the Act on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management -- which is the fourth time in a year -- is brought to the agenda of Parliament, which is the fourth amendment. So I did it to the parliament, without making detailed and comprehensive preparations, without involving permanent and healthy provisions, without listening to the suggestions of opposition parties. One of the classic laws that the AKP has brought in logic. Indeed, when the bill makes a change in 24 laws or laws, it embraces a lot of interestingness -- I mean, we make a law -- but it envisions a complete freedom of law, not to obey the law, not to be put into the law. For example, a law that is not subject to the rules of shape in Article 2 of the law, which is not subject to the rules of form in the law. You know, like a freak of nature. The asset rental company has a private legal personality, but 100 per cent of it belongs to the treasury. The public doesn't apply public legislation, he says, whatever that means. The certificate is processed just like the DIBS. It's considered collateral in public tenders. Any austerity authority is equipped with public power in the minister, but it doesn't operate like the public. It's like the stock exchange they made in the SEC Law was Istanbul Ash. To escape without inspection... the reason for all this weirdness, I think, is to dominate the rule of law under the name "Bakana." Really, there's no way in the state of law to accept such a thing. Free of Turkish Trade Law, Tax Usul Law, institutional tax, DASK, Act 233, Mark Tax, building tax, land tax, which is impossible to understand. It also opened the door for him not to get a penny from the company to the treasury by depriving the unpaid capital. You keep raising capital, preventing the public from paying a single cent! Dear friends, I've told you many laws have been changed by this bill. For example, the Unemployment Fund has been the AKP's farm for ten years; as the workers wanted, they squandered their contribution, the government's contribution, and the workers' share, and now they bring in interest-free settlement. On the other hand, the Prime Minister said one day, "Ya, we sell public social facilities." If the government officials want to take a vacation, we'll give them a vacation. Now, won't the Prime Minister say something like that to the AKP -- excuse me -- that they'll compete to be allies, to be suck-ups? There's been a quick arrangement in the law about the sale of treasured estates. The next thing you know, if the minister asks....... it's a joy again! I mean, if the minister wants to move into the treasury, they'll sell out, they won't sell out, they won't sell out. Again, you see, the treasure's not being moved, the property of a private person can be traumatized. So, I also told the Plan and Budget Commission that we have a hundred-year-old wooden house in our village, and I want to sell it, too. I mean, from this irony, whose property will be valued, whose property will be trampled with the property of the state, it must be explained. Now, on the other hand, we're looking at the very essence of the bill, so I don't want to say it, but it's coming up, with a special law, with no law, without the law -- the Law of National Preservation -- to the island of democracy or to the Cazada, you know, there's going to be a culture presence, or, I don't know, an amphitheatre, and there's going to be an amphitheatre, and there's going to be an amphitheatre, and there's going to be no law. Dear friends, you've been in power for 11 years, you've left 11 years behind. Eleven years later, when you bring up such an event on a subject that has been discussed in public as a result of talks with the Imralı, it really amazes me to see your understanding of democracy, your approach to human beings. There are moments in the history of all states, of all societies, of sadness remembered by those who live in this period, there are experiences. In the depths of history, as an example to us, we take the votes that we have lost after the meetings of Menderes, Poletkan, and Zoraş, who have made the conscience of our entire society a pain in the ass today, even though they should be a lesson to us. There will be nothing for you to act in the sense of acting. If such a thing is to be done, it can be done together. Now, there's no point in getting up and scratching past events again. For example, today -- may he rest in peace -- is the 65th year of the murder of the morning Ali. Just as we cursed the executions of Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan, Hüseyin İnan, today's executions, the executions of Polatkan, Zordar, Menderes, Menderes, we, as the Republican People's Party, on that day's President, Ismet Inönu, to the Chief of the General Staff, to the National Union Committee and to other authorities, are in the middle. He may be able to use a bond that upsets all of us in the depths of history but only with the understanding of AKP's administration. On the other hand, again, we're looking, dear friends, there's an arrangement about foundations in this. Mr. Prime Minister, just two days ago, the mindset of theCHP is the mindset that destroys history. E gets up, preventing the transfer of 101% of the Foundation's funds to repair and repair the property of our historical assets, which has not been implemented in five years, five years later, as of February 20, 2008. On the other hand, the Prime Minister, on Saturday, March 30, 2013, said in local governments, the mindset that destroys the history. The same Prime Minister, in his statement about Marmaray, says: "The first idea of the project came in the 1860s. It's not for us to delay, it's not for us to delay. All the time, there was no archaeological thing, there was no pottery, and this came out, and they put obstacles in front of us. We will not recognize these obstacles. The pottery can only be done with the cynical mentality of the Prime Minister and AKP (AKP), who avoids protecting this nature's existence, not with anyone else. Somewhere along the line, we've started putting the Prime Minister's speeches in front of the community as a synasion display. And this, as a new example to the maintenance of the Foundations Bank's trusts... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and we refuse to accept that he's removed his executive application, and I respectfully salute your delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0046par0139	Thank you. Sadik Badak, Antalya MP, who asked for a personal word on the bill.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0142	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the 443 bill we're discussing. In the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. The law we're interviewing is completed by the materials brought by different institutions and organizations. But, as a matter of fact, it's also said that it was brought here to organise the creation of an asset rental company. They said, "There is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no rule, there is no administration, there is no decision, there is no ledger, there is no manager." It's not like that, there's a law he's based on, and the lease certificate we issued last year is based on the law on exports. And with the provisions here, it's being dominated by how the company will operate. Now, they said there's no company involved. They said there's no owner, especially in the Commission talks. The owner of the treasure, Mr. Secretary, is directly responsible. Friends say, "Whose signature is it built with?" In Turkey, companies are established with the approval of a trade record officer. There's a sentence here, this company is founded with the Minister's approval. Which one's stronger? At the same time, it's being published in the Trade Record Journal. So we're dealing with a firm based on law enforcement, governance, the highest level of justice. Dear friends, Turkey is growing and Turkey needs new funding. This is a modern, modern funding source. A model that many countries have successfully implemented abroad, the government is bringing to Turkey to be successfully implemented again. What could be more than supporting it? Instead of criticizing, let's finish what's missing, but let's not criticize it as if there's no law behind it, there's no administration, there's no right word for it. We find this new funding source extremely useful to our country. As a matter of fact, we've been tracking that practices over the past year have been more successful than any other country in the process. Again, the law that we're negotiating brings a ban on mandatory insurance agencies to do other jobs, other jobs they can do so far. We think it's a modern arrangement. In addition, it has been criticised here, and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism envisions a museum of democracy and tourism in Yassiada and Ezada. Dear friends, in all countries, especially in their history of democracy, they have places, places, places, where they can be an example for future generations, where they can be a place of education. In fact, let's leave the centers of democracy, where such centers are the subject of novels, are now visiting places. Friends who go to San Francisco may view the island in the novel "Alcatraz Birdman" as a visiting centre. Also, those who go to Cape Town will see that the island where Mandela was held as a prison is a democracy island. It is also a center of tragedy in our history of democracy. In these years when democracy has expanded and expanded in our country, we should be able to leave Yassuada as a democratic training centre for future generations, as a visual center, as a center for the tragic events of that day. This is one of our duties. As a matter of fact, the government's arrangement on this issue did not take place in a few months, as expressed by the valuable opposition representative, but has not developed; talks on projects that have been on this subject for many years, three or five years have been being made, and improvements are being made. As a matter of fact, it is agreed that nonprofit facilities are to be built, with this clause being assigned to public-owned NGOs, professional rooms. These are -- they've been expressed here -- like the Association of Chambers Stock Exchanges of Turkey -- and they have beautiful examples of themselves, which have built some of our customs doors in a very modern way -- as well as the Tursab -- and there are very good examples of them, and they are currently running our museums modernly -- and we find it very accurate that both the Flatsian and the U.S.A. were brought into our country as the museum of democracy and tourism. Again, one of the things that the law has ordered, although it's essentially a correction, is that there's been a lot of attention here, a lot of criticism, and I want to put it this way, it's a matter that concerns the General Manager of the Foundations. As this went out in 2008, it turns out that it was essentially a controlled substance, assuming that there was no company with more than 50 per cent of the Foundation's General Directorate as its shareholder. That's my research, that's what I've been doing.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0048par0154	Who's gonna pay for it? There's no other agency.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0155	As a matter of fact, in the statement sent to the Public Enlightenment Platform on that day, it is stated that the Foundation General's share in the Foundation's Bank of Foundations is 43 per cent -- a share in the balance -- and the judge is...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0048par0156	They confessed 58 percent, Mr. Sadik, they said it at the commission.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0157	...is that there is no company that has over 50 per cent of the Foundation General Directorate. However, it is alleged that 15 per cent of the arrangement (B) will also be covered by the law, which later has joint foundations (B), which are shareholders in the (B) scheme.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0048par0158	It does.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0159	Such a claim arises, and this claim creates conflict, a conflict between the parties.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0048par0160	(B) is in the hands of (A). He says the proper foundations are in the hands of the court.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0049par0161	Mr. Sadik, come on, the orphan has a right.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0162	Your law, your judgment, is creating a conflict over the spirit of matter.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0048par0163	It's in the activity report. (B) is in the hands of (A).
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0164	In order to resolve the conflict, the Foundations' General Assembly again appeals to the Supreme Assembly, saying: "There is a conflict over the government, and you will go back to the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0050par0165	No conflict, sir, no conflict. They belong to the Foundations. There's no conflict. Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0166	This is the solution. We can't avoid it, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0050par0167	Stop politics! There's no conflict.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0168	As a matter of fact, the representatives of the opposition here expressed, saying, "Well, with what money will the works of the Foundation be evacuated?"
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0051par0169	Tell me which company it's going to apply to.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0170	In the last five years, the Foundation General has received nearly $650 million from the Bank of Foundations. I mean, it's not like the Foundation of Foundations doesn't pay the General Directorate. He paid over $650 million. And then you say, let him give you another $750 million.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0052par0171	You made the law, Mr. Sadik, we didn't. You're the one who made the law.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0172	But when the law comes out, dear friends, there's no judgment, there's no understanding, there's no understanding, there's no such thing. It's considered 43 percent.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0053par0173	We've done it wrong, we're cleaning it up. It's a mistake.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0174	Here's the text sent to the Public Enlightenment Platform. The information is there, in the middle.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0054par0175	Yeah, well, we did it wrong. Say it.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0176	So it's our duty here to resolve this conflict.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0055par0177	We need an investigation into the people who gave us that information, so we need to clear the air.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0054par0178	Shame on you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0047par0179	Dear friends, as a result, if there are those with criminal responsibilities on this subject, of course it is followed by the interests. But it is our duty to correct the judgment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With that respect, I believe the other provisions of the law will bring useful results to our country. I'd like to thank all those who have worked on the bill. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0056par0184	Thank you. Now, there will be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure, ten minutes of asking questions, ten minutes of answering. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0057par0187	Mr. Secretary, the agricultural sales co-ops... have been brought to these cooperatives for years by the board of directors... not by election, but by appointment... from the '80s... appointing governments and appointing people close to them. Currently, two cooperatives have been shut down in Turkey. They don't have a co-op, they don't have them, they don't have signs. Consolidate what? Two: and they have insurance debts. Those assigned people's homes are being repossessed. Minister, there is injustice here. We'll give you a warrant, use that authority. Let's give these clearances to the Council of Ministers, Mr. Secretary, and with the liquidation of these closing units, don't restructure their debt, whatever you're going to do. And if he has tax and insurance debt... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and not those poor people, but we'll sort of give you authority. What do you think about that?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0058par0192	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0059par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in 2011 and 2012, how many transactions have been made in the Istanbul Stock Exchange? How much foreign capital has been the process of foreign investors here? How much did the stock market make in 2011, and how much did it make in 2012? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0060par0197	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0061par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Law by the AKP's rule is also defamed by law laws, and each time, he tries to correct a wrong law after time has passed. One of them is ten to fifteen years of work on government officials who have been issued in connection with the Constitutional Court's decision. Following the Constitutional Court's decision, the officers were also entitled to compensation. However, he is being compensated on a penny level for ten to fifteen years of work. Reciprocity for ten years is 20 cents, legal interest is four cents. It's impossible to accept such a number. For ten years, 20 cents in compensation is counterintuitive. Will there be an arrangement? Or do you think two cents a year is enough for the officers? Is there really going to be a conscientious arrangement? Or will the AKP continue to view power as enough for a ten-year service? That's what I'm asking, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0060par0201	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0062par0202	Mr. President, in fact, there's a proposal coming in that doesn't make sense, that doesn't make sense, that doesn't make sense, that's irresponsible, that's an asset rental company, and that's a lease certificate. Now, what's he doing with it? The state's largest structures, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, tomorrow, then the Prime Minister's office, Dolmabahçe Palace, and then Turkey... this government will give a value to Turkey, to a company. Is there such an irrationality in this company... that those who run a state... would enter such a senseless, irrational practice... that would determine a value that could sell a country? Like this, there's no example of it in the world. What's that? If he's going to borrow it, the Treasury will go and borrow it. So, what's the nature of this company?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0060par0203	Mr. Young, please ask the question, ask the question.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0062par0204	What's in it for the people he gave this lease certificate to when he issued it? Who's gonna buy this? When these do not fulfill their obligations, what will be judged when these companies do not perform their procedures in accordance with the law? It's all in limbo. And are you going to make a bargaining point tomorrow as a charter company for Turkey? How much are you going to value Turkey when you issue the rent certificate? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0060par0205	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0063par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, among the general expenses in the first article of the bag law are payments to credit rating agencies. How much were loan rating agencies paid in 2011, 2012? I'd appreciate it if I could have one at a time. How much is the 2013 budget for credit rating agencies? What's the budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0064par0211	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0065par0213	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, this is the treasured land that's still on trial. Will these be sold? We'd appreciate it if you'd give us an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0066par0216	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0067par0218	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to first answer questions regarding these rental certificates. The rent certificate is an instrument of financing that is increasingly common in the world. And just last year, the amount of rent certificates exported to global markets reached about 120 billion dollars. When we look at the stock figure, we're talking about, of course, about $400 billion. This is only available in global markets, and each country has its own rent certificates, which are available to its own customers. This widespread instrument was first introduced by our Treasury Undersecretary in Turkey and was exported abroad last year. Also this year, a domestic export was made, and there was a very large demand as an investor base, and we faced a demand, particularly seven to eight times the amount that was issued abroad. In order for the rental certificates to work, this method needs to be built into an asset rental company, and the real estate needs to be registered in the name of this asset rental company, which is all done. The asset rental company, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, has authorized the Treasury Undersecretary and the minister, to establish such companies under the law he passed last year. Such a company was established within its jurisdiction, and its records were made by the Treasury Undersecretary, and the whole process, especially before our export abroad, was examined by international law offices, where there was no loopholes legally, which were thought to be a solid legal basis for these instruments, which was reported to investors. Besides, you know, so far, there have been $1.5 billion exports abroad and 3.1 billion exports abroad. This also attracted a new group of investors who had never shown interest in Turkey. At the same time, it allowed investors with certain sensitivities in Turkey to invest in such a new instrument of debt. At the same time, the legislation we've drawn up has provided the infrastructure for the private sector to obtain a rent certificate, and the secondary arrangements for that have been completed. Now our private sectors can export this rent certificate abroad and abroad. This issue was also discussed in the phase of the Plan and Budget Commission, and in fact, we also made a change in this clause in terms of the proposals that came in there. In a way, we also made a change in the publication of the Trade Register Journal of the asset rental company, and in a way, the establishment and the changes in the main contract were then published in the Trade Record Gazette. And I also want to thank you for the suggestions we received on this matter.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0068par0223	We need to know who the organs are, who the president is.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0067par0224	All of these issues, the quality of this company, its organs, all of these are already defined in its primary contract, and this is the main contract that is published on the website of our Undersecretary of Treasury. Another question was about agricultural sales co-ops. Our arrangement for agricultural sales co-ops, you know, restructuring, was made during our Customs and Trade Ministry bill last week. However, we received a request for an arrangement of troops who had completely lost their function and entered the process of liquidation. Our council's party groups have informed us of a motion to work on, and our friends are working on it. So, we think there might be an approach to this: if a unit has been completely purged and there's not going to be another union on the same subject, our friends are currently working on an arrangement for the transfer of the property to the treasury and the release of its debt, in a way, provided the liquidation is done. This, of course, has to be thoroughly studied with our fellow lawyers. I think we'll discuss this later in the talks of this bill. There was a question about IMKB. How much did you invest in the 2011-2012 volume? Now, from here, I immediately look at the website: in 2011, the average processing volume was 2 billion 748 million per day, 2 billion 464 million per 2012; in dollars, 1,674 million, 1 billion 375 million. As for the investor essay. When we look at the total investment stockpile of about 60 to 65% of investors, but how many foreign and domestic investors are involved in the transaction volume, we don't have any data on it right now, so we can give you that data. Again, the subject of Mr. Acar was a question that we do not have data. Therefore, let us answer later in writing to the question of Mr. Acar. Now, about the credit rating question. After our friends look at the records on this, let's answer this in writing again. Besides, it's...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0069par0230	Mr. President, we're not hearing what's being said, please...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0070par0231	Madam Secretary, I can't hear you. We're not listening, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0067par0232	I was thinking maybe some technical friends could arrange it.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0070par0233	Mr. President, is your sound system off? You can't hear it from here, Minister.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0067par0234	No, you were just talking behind your back while I was talking, so maybe you didn't hear it for him.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0070par0235	I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, are they going to turn it up or are they going to turn it down?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0067par0236	Now, there have been talks about the foundation, about the relationship between the Foundation and the General Directorate of Foundations, about the speakers on the stand again. There is an arrangement in 2008 at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where more than 51 per cent of companies controlled by the General Directorate of Foundations, or more than 51 per cent of companies controlled by the General Directorate of Foundations, are related to the transfer of 10 per cent of the pre-tax to the Foundation General Directorate. Of course, we only have one organization that meets that condition, and that's Foundationbank. Regarding the foundation, the Foundation General Directorate reported to the Public Enlightenment Platform again in 2008 that the shares controlled by the General Directorate were around 42 per cent. However, he has not paid the General Directorate of Foundations for this reason since 2008. But, as of today, when we review all of these legislation, especially in the future, we think it's not appropriate for a public company, especially for a public company like the Foundation, to be transferred to the General Directorate of Foundations by a specific arrangement of a company that the public has now partnered in. The Foundations also have an assessment in our General Directorate's assessment today that the stake is not 42 per cent, but 58 per cent. Thus, we find it appropriate to put all of this on a proper basis, both in a way toward the future and in the past, to parallel our legislation with the same perspective. On the flat, there were again some criticisms of the prosciutto. You know, our goal here, especially in our history, and in our recent history, is to turn a really painful period, in a way, into a permanent symbolic work to make an example of future generations, future times. You know, there's a lot of examples here. So there are similar practices in the world about many people who have died in the struggle for democracy, who have suffered in the struggle for democracy. Thus, we wish that the Yassuada would become a museum of democracy and a democracy complex in the coming period. You know, it's an island very close by. We want this project to happen together in a way that will not bring burden to the public, with an arrangement of these two islands and an arrangement with the do-and-do model. In fact, this is what the arrangements are for. So if we look at this arrangement, this bill, in many areas, is actually an arrangement that solves problems but also paves the way for new practices. Again, the talks from the bench included comments, especially about the decision the Competition Board made regarding the banks, criticisms. We care very much about this: Turkey must implement competitive legislation, competition in every sector, and in a way our most important administrative unit, which regulates and oversees this issue, is our Competitive Council. The Competition Board is an independent committee, but it's also a board that listens to all parties before making decisions, takes into account the assessments of all parties. In addition, our Competitive Council has been in contact with other agencies, such as the BDDK, and has listened to their side of the matter, and then the Council has closed down, and as a result of a week's work, it has announced its decisions independently. We think this board is very important. Because if the competition in Turkey really works, it's for the benefit of our people. This allows consumer products and services to be more quality and to reach a lower price. It's also very, very useful for our companies, because companies that exist in competition, companies that work in competition, improve their own efficiency, improve their own activities. Companies that gain competitiveness in Turkey are in a way ready for competition in the world. In areas where competition does not work well, companies in protected areas in some way do not try to improve their productivity. So when we look at many world examples, we see that under protection, non-competitive companies cannot be a world company. Because he's so comfortable in his own country that when you put it in a global competition, those companies can't succeed. So we think that competition is a very important element for the economic programme that we're implementing. At the same time, competition is also useful for revenue distribution in Turkey. Because in the sectors where competition works well, over-profits, fast-profits are not possible. Today, Turkey is competing in many sectors, and it's useful. It's good for companies and it's good for our people. So it's very important for us, for our economic structure, for our competitive law to grow, to strengthen our competition board, to have a board of reliable, respected, fair decisions, to give moderate sentences. The last thing I want to talk about is the number of growths that some of the orators have brought up on the stand in 2012. You know, in developing countries and developed countries all over the world, growth numbers have developed downwards over the last year. So the growth of the world grew by exactly one point lower than expected for Christmas in 2012. The growth of developing countries, I mean the total of 2012, was also about one point lower than expected at Christmas, especially in Europe, where 2012 was expected to grow by about 1.5 points. In particular, the picture of developed countries, developed economies, and the weakening of the domestic markets of these countries have affected the export volume and therefore growth of developing countries. Besides, a more concrete issue about Turkey is that we are an internal consumerism based on spending by taking loans from the bank, especially...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0071par0243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'll put it to your votes.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0072par0248	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0071par0249	There's a roll call. I'll take care of it. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Çam, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Altay, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Atici, Mr. Acar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. De millerdereli, Mr. Earth, Mr. Onur, Mr. Özüşmiş, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Serindağ. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 30. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0073par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to explain my thoughts on the first chapter of Bill 443. The existing bag of legislation, the bill, can be criticised in many ways. Within the framework of the relevant clauses, when the time came, our friends criticised and expressed their thoughts. So without going into too much detail, I'd like to talk about my basic thoughts on the first chapter of the four articles I'm going to evaluate and then make some general assessments. Dear lawmakers, for once, the 2nd article is highly ill-advised. This clause related to the status of property management companies has also sparked serious debates in the Plan and Budget Commission. There's a possibility of a parallel law being created here over the legal status of the asset management company, which is highly problematic. So far, Treasury Undersecretary 3.1 billion Turkish liras have been owed around $6 billion from domestic markets and $1.5 billion from foreign markets, but it is unclear whether or not this entity is a private legal person or a public legal person. So there is a problem with status. Only in the Minister's uhde, it's a company that's come out of his will, except for most of the Turkish Trade Law provisions, and there's a danger of creating a parallel law. In the coming period, such companies may be established for certain ministries. It's highly objectionable to the Turkish legal system, and that's the first one. The second point I will consider is that the 4th article specifically refers to the loan of local governments with the guarantee of treasure or the allocation of payment accounts during bond exports. While our reviews of this in the Plan and Budget Commission show that there is no additional guarantee for the exports of bonds by local governments, such an arrangement is being carried out in the middle and long term, it may be possible to bring up a treasury guarantee for bond exports. You have to be careful here. Article 18 concerning the election of members of the Central Bank in particular of the audit board. It is hereby granted the right to choose all members of the audit board directly from the Treasury Undersecretary, given the power to elect the audit board. This is a problem for the autonomy and independence of the Central Bank. The 25th article is seriously expanding the area of public investments to be carried out by the do-and-run model. As you know, during the AKP administrations, we have seen that some investments that should be made by the public sector, many of which should be considered pure public service, were made by the private sector by the do-and-work model. A path leading to Turkey's economy, where public investment spending is seriously down in the middle and long term. I think recent laws and follow-up economic sizes make it necessary for Turkey to assess the economic picture in a slightly different way during the AKP administrations over the past ten years. Just now, while the Minister was here answering questions...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0074par0272	He won't listen, he won't listen, Mr. Secretary won't listen.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0073par0273	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0075par0274	Call the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0073par0275	I'm asking the Minister.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0076par0276	Mr. Yellow, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0073par0277	While reviewing the growth figures here earlier, Mr. Minister said that the growth of the 1.4 calendars and seasons in the last quarter in Turkey due to the initial growth of the financial crisis for all developing countries or developed countries should be evaluated in this sense, and that the growth of 2.2 per year should be evaluated in all assessments, according to the AKP environments, in the past ten years, Turkey has shown a very serious growth performance. It's a false perception, precious MPs. For one thing, I would like to remind Mr. Secretary that when we divide the period 2003-2007 and the period 2008-2012 -- the period before the crisis and the period after the crisis -- compared Turkey's growth performance with the growth performance of developing countries, we see a picture like this: Turkey grew 6.9 percent during 2003-2007. This growth is actually over the historical averages of Turkey. At the same time, however, developing countries grew by 7.6%. Thus, Turkey has grown under developing countries. By the time we move past the period after the crisis, again, the official figures of the state dropped Turkey's growth average to 3.2 per cent in 2008-2012. In this regard, Mr. Minister is right, Turkey's growth averages are going down. The growth average of developing countries is 5.5 per cent during this period. So Turkey's growth rate is dropping, and the growth rate of developing countries is dropping, but Turkey's growth rate is dropping much more than the growth rate of developing countries. Therefore, it is not true that the crisis has taken place in Turkey. There is no Turkish miracle. This means that there is a structural problem with Turkey, a structural problem. See, the average growth of Turkey's economy from 2003 to 2012 during the entire AKP administration period is 5.05 per cent. Since the republic was established, Turkey's economy has grown by 5 per cent. So both during liquidity and during liquidity shortages, no matter what period, Turkey's growth averages are as high as Turkey's historical averages, so there is no Turkish miracle that has been achieved by AKP governments. Turkey has grown as much as its historical average, and Turkey's growth is below developing countries. So I'm quite curious to know how the Minister feels about this. I'm sure they didn't keep their growing goals, my fellow congressmen. In the first medium-term programme, the goal was 4 percent, and we said that 4 percent growth could never happen, and we gave reasons for that. It's in the records of our work on the Plan Budget Commission. This goal was then revised to 3.2 per cent. Today, we face 2.2 percent. I hereby declare: it is impossible for us to achieve the growth goal of 2013, or it is very difficult because there is a serious slowdown, even negativeness in investment spending. For example, Minister, in the last quarter of 2012, the purchases of machinery and equipment have declined 15 percent of the private sector. Again, in the last quarter, fixed capital investments have been reduced by 9.2 per cent. Therefore, there is no sign that future investments will be revived. The domestic demand has collapsed. Domestic demand is negative in 2012 after a very long break. When we look at income policy or look at credit policy, there is no sign that domestic demand will be revived next year -- this year, the year we're in. The first predictions of economic resurgence were in the last quarter of 2012. Then it was transferred to the first quarter of 2013, but there are no indications of that in the first quarter of 2013. So I declare here: it's impossible to achieve the growth goal of 2013. More rational and more realistic growth goals should be determined, or economic policies should be reviewed. Again, in the same way, it is impossible to meet budget targets because growth does not hold goals. There will be serious problems in tax revenues, especially through indirect taxes. So already, as of next summer, when the first and second quarter growth numbers come in, or when the public finances come in, the raises will be inevitable. Therefore, the budget will not hold up its goals, and because the budget will not keep its goals, there will be serious problems in public finance, and it is possible to say now that unemployment rates have increased. As of last October, unemployment has shifted upwards because growth has dropped fourfold. Historical studies show that unemployment rates are increasing at every point where Turkey's economy grows below 5 per cent. Thus, unemployment will remain attached to double digits, perhaps even to much higher numbers in the midterm. That's how I got this general assessment. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0077par0285	Thank you. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0078par0288	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the first part of the talks on the Law and some other amendments to the Order of Public Finance and Loan Management 443 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I would like to say that the bill we're discussing is not prepared with the right, healthy, and most importantly participatory method. Again, we are faced with another bag of legislation rushing through commissions, ignoring participation. Although the bill suggests different changes in many laws, the problems are not fully resolved. The changes of the law should be aimed at structural solutions, but unfortunately, there are no constructive and permanent solutions to the bag of legislation in many places. In the new regulation on public financing and debt management, the Council of Ministers is authorized to transfer funds to the upper funding structure, determine this source, determine the areas to transfer funds, and other issues related to other issues. In addition, there is no understandable aspect of giving the minister the authority to remove assets that have no legal ability to follow and have no economic value. I'd like to say that we don't think it's right to violate the issue and give this authority only to the minister. The public is not clear on what these assets are. This raises reservations about the giving of this authority. Under the provision of the bill, the removals of property belonging to Treasures No. 4706 and the amendments to the Law on Value Tax Law can be transferred to real and private property in order for public services to be carried out or to be managed more effectively and efficiently in case necessary by those who have looked at it." A change has been made in the law by adding the notice. With this arrangement, there is an uncertain situation, though it is crucial to open the way for the trampa-making process between the immovables in the possession of the treasure and the immovables of real and corporate individuals. The arrangement did not specify the terms and criteria of the exchange, nor did it say whether it would be mandatory or voluntary. In addition, places such as thermal facilities, resorts, and resort camps, which are the issue of the trampa, which are intended to be brought into the economy, are owned and saved by public institutions. Therefore, it is not right to be authorized by the Council of Ministers without any restrictions on how to operate in these places. The AK PARTY government must cease to see potential space everywhere. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important provisions made in the bag law is the two major amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act. These changes are designed to be paid by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security for the state's share of unemployment insurance. Beyond discussions about where the unemployment benefits should be paid, it remains unclear how this share will be paid. The share should be paid is not specified in the arrangement provided for by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, whether it will be covered by the budget already limited or from the funds the Treasury will transfer to the Ministry. In our opinion, this uncertainty must be resolved. In addition, if there is less or more money that the Social Security Agency and Treasury Undersecretary will transfer to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, these institutions will be able to meet their obligations without paying any interest. Why is it that workers, workers, if they have the slightest delay in paying insurance premiums, the government, who knows how to put interest on it and pay it back, refuse to pay for its own injustice? That's for us to know." If you say that, then you shouldn't take interest from a citizen when they're late for bonuses. Speaking of which, some arrangements must be made regarding the unemployment benefit fund. It is said aloud by everyone in this country that unemployment is very difficult to obtain. The length of time is also a problem. Workers who are forced to work in seasonal or short-term jobs are unfortunately unable to benefit from this fund. For example, a worker at a textile company that operates for six months is not covered by any guarantee when he is laid off. Workers are victims because the workplace itself is closed. The same is true of workers who work in sectors called Seasonal works. Our wish is to shorten the deadlines for those who have to work in short-term jobs so that they can benefit from the fund when they are unemployed. Moreover, as is known, laborers face a great deal of difficulty to benefit from the unemployment fund. Even so, the unemployment fund continues to be transferred to other locations. The amount the EC PARTY transferred from the unemployment fund to the GAP as an excuse has exceeded $10 billion and 824 million. This number was taken from the Labour and Social Security Minister's statements and is nearly twice the amount of money paid to the unemployed for more than a decade, due to the purpose of the fund's establishment. With the situation so obvious, we feel that all obstacles to the benefit of the unemployed should be removed and the scope of their use should be extended. The second joke of Article 28 of the Act of the Foundations and the other arrangement brought with the bill is lifted from effect. With this change, the provisions for the cuts that should be passed by the Foundation are being eliminated. It's important to remember that with the amendment to the Foundations Act in 2008, it was the AK PARTY government that made the law come out this way. Therefore, no sanction will be carried out since the new arrangement and the date of the law. Mr. President, valued lawmakers say the amendments brought in with the bill are important and critical, but are far from bringing a permanent solution because they are not prepared in a participating way, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0079par0304	Thank you. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0080par0307	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the first chapter of Law Bill 443 that is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. In June 2012, under the Law on Public Finance and the Order of Debt Management, the Deputy Prime Minister was appointed to create rental companies for purchase, sale, reselling, rent, rehiring, restitution, and so on and so forth, and it was envisioned that these companies could export rent certificates on domestic and foreign markets. According to the information provided, three rent certificates have been exported so far, including one external and two domestic markets. However, the laws of the law were not obeyed; taxes, tuitions, and other obligations were not paid, in a sense tax evasion, laws were openly violated. Therefore, the implementation date of the bill's 2, 8, 14, 22, 23 and 43 is backwards from 29 June 2012. The provisions on the Turkish Trade Law, the Tax Act, the Tax Act, the Disaster Insurance Act, the Act on Property Taxes, the Law on Companies Taxes, Expendance Taxes, the Law on Expendance Taxes, the Law on Expendance Taxes, the Law on Turkish Trade and KİSKs are issued; bookkeeping and other obligations will not be met; all transactions will be imposed on corporate tax, bank and insurance benefits tax, property tax and fees. The government has done procedures without fulfilling any legal obligations, and now it's in its holster. No one, regardless of his motive, has the right to disobey the law; that is a crime, a violation of the law, a violation of the law. With a signature from Mr. Babacan, a company was established so that we could see its principal contract through long struggles. This entire company has a name, it has minimal capital, it has no capital; it has no capital; it has no capital; it has no income; it has no tax; it has no perception; it has no obligation; it has no account; it has no account; it has no manager; it has no staff; it has no home. On criticism from the commission, the company was at least accepted on its trade record. This Treasury company bought assets from the treasury, rented this property into a treasure, exported a rent certificate based on the rent money he was going to collect from the treasure. All these procedures were done at the same time. Basically, there's no actual purchases, rentals and payments between the treasure and the treasure company, all on paper, not even paper, no books, no records. That's how you borrow $1.5 billion from the outside market, $3.1 billion from the domestic market. This company, which has no expense in these transactions, gives its rent income to the recipients, as well, so there's no profit or loss. The company does not operate on commercial basis, on principles of profitability and efficiency. It's supposed to be a company, but it's the good fortune. So, Mr. Babacan says: I made up a company, dum dum dum. Here's the gist of it. All of this is a hoax, and its legal definition is in order. The use of alternative methods and tools in debt, the orientation of various financial vehicles and different markets to reduce debt cost, as the National Movement Party, is among our debt management policies. However, we do not find it right that people's religious beliefs are being abused by the government and by such regular means. Our teachers have a positive view on how to obtain income by receiving a certificate of rent from our religious scholars. However, as these views indicate, the sale of assets must be real, the rental must be real. The application, in essence, is no different from interest bond exports. You can only deceive yourselves, and you can deceive some of our people, and you cannot deceive God, the Lord of the Universe. How are you going to pay the consequences of the people you cheated on? Honorable MPs, the AKP government has been the highest debtor in the history of the republic and the highest interest-payer. He broke the record of the republic's history with ten years of debt and interest. Turkey's external debt rose from $129.6 billion in 2002 to $336.9 billion in late 2012. In ten years, it has increased by 160 percent. The public's external debt, including the Central Bank, rose from 86.5 billion dollars to 110.8 billion dollars, while the private sector's external debt rose from 43.1 billion dollars to $226 billion. The public's internal debt reached 155.2 billion dollars in 2002, reaching 408.3 billion liras at the end of 2012. Public domestic debt has increased 163% in ten years. $40 billion in privatisation revenues, $22 billion in land sales to foreigners, have not been able to reduce debt. Our country currently has over 155 billion dollars in short-term foreign capital, or hot money. This should actually be written down in the debt house. Those who brought foreign currency from outside the AKP's administration and assessed it in Turkey have achieved the revenue that they can receive in other countries many years later in a very short time in our country. In this way, a record-sized transfer of funds out of the Turkish economy. Mr. Babacan and the Finance Minister say there is no external debt; they can say that we're even owed $226 billion of the private sector's foreign debt by reducing the public's foreign debt and other assets; they don't consider the private sector's $226 billion in debt; the privatisation income, $22 billion in land sales for foreigners, they don't even care where the revenues went; they don't even care about the word; they don't care about the short foreign capital, over 155 billion dollars in foreign currency, or hot money. Hot money increased by $63.3% in 2012 alone, $60 billion. The central bank's reserves are kept as guarantees of hot money, debts. These reserves are very low in income, while hot money and debts are paid high in interest. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what would you say if you knew someone who could do this kind of work? For example, what would you say to the person who puts 100 billion dollars in money on interest at less than one percent, in return for taking $100 billion loans from banks at 6 to 7 per cent interest? I don't know what you think, but in Asia Minor they call someone like that. Mr. Secretary, can you explain to me how much of our central bank reserves, what foreign banks and funds, with what percentage of income? However, what are the rates of interest on foreign debt? Explain it so these people can hear it. On the other hand, Prime Minister and ministers say that when they come to power, the debt to the IMF is $23 billion, that they pay it, that it will be reset in May. For one thing, the debt currently paid to the IMF is the balance of the $10 billion loan provided by the AKP government in 2005. Besides, the only real estate you sell to strangers is in exchange for the IMF debt. What is the state's external debt now, what is your debt to the World Bank and other international institutions, to banks, and what is the debt to the bonds, which is not mentioned. The debt to the IMF is running out, but the debt to other institutions and banks is increasing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Where's the pride in that? I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0081par0322	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0082par0325	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the first chapter of Bill 443. I salute your honorable committee. Dear MPs, this law, which has been increasingly popularized by the government and we call it the bill, has upset the law and violated the quality of legislation. In less than a year, the letter 7/A, titled "Exportation" of Law 4749, is redesigned. Because the AKP has changed many of its laws before the ink is even dry. This is due to the Justice and Development Party's lack of carelessness in drafting the law and the disregard for public opinion and opposition criticism during law talks. According to information provided by the Undersecretary of Treasury, 3 rental certificates have been exported so far under Article 7/A, titled the export certificate of Law 4749. However, in the proceedings, many laws have not been observed, such as the Turkish Trade Law, the Law of Debts, the Tax Act, the Book of Stock Exchanges, the Law on Public Economic Oppositions, the Law on Laws. Under the bill, the application date for items related to the rent certificate exports is changed backwards from 29 June 2012. Turkey is a state of law, and administration must abide by law in all business and transactions, but the AKP government has not complied with the rules of the law, and with this bill, it strives to create a new law for its own illegalness. Under the fourth article of the bill, it is mandatory for the local authorities to set up an external debt payment account to pay back the bonds that will be exported under the guarantee of treasure. It is important for local governments to set up an external debt payment account for treasury guaranteed bonds, but it also paves the way for local governments to export bonds without the project. We believe this arrangement is related to the upcoming local elections. After the February 2001 crisis, the Central Bank Act was changed. With legal changes in May 2001, the Central Bank's loan to the public has been banned since November 2001. The central bank's main target is clearly price stability, and the Central Bank has been declared car independence. With legal changes made, the Central Bank's main priority was to ensure stability in financial markets. To this end, the extraordinary amount of liquidity available to markets has been made to prevent inflation from causing jumps. These provisions guarantee administrative independence of the Central Bank. However, valuable lawmakers are scheduled to be elected by the General Assembly of the Central Bank's Control Board, under the 18th article of the bill we are negotiating. The Turkish Central Bank of Turkey is a private legal person founded by special law, but the independence of the Central Bank is a very important issue. With this arrangement, independence will be marred and completely out of control. So both management and control will be done by the public hand. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0083par0337	Thank you. Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who has asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0340	Mr. President, I have made a personal promise on the first chapter of Bill 443. My respects to all of you. Now, there's a proposal for a law. It's a habit of the AKP, they're creating a child without a father, but where's the head, where's the feet, where's the arms, there's no telling. I mean, aside from the lack of a father, the shape of the body parts, the schematics, it's weird. Now, you know, at the time of this AKP power, the state was destroyed, in the first place, distorted in every way with its army and its judgment, rather, destroyed. A declaration of Abdullah Ocalan was issued in Diyarbakır square on March 21st the other day. It says in the declaration:... we will now form a new state, we have lived under the flag of Islam for a thousand years and.....
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0085par0344	What's the law got to do with it?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0345	Wait, you'll see what it's got to do with it, you'll see. After that, we lived under the flag of Islam. This means that we will remove the Turkish flag. We will dissolve the state of the Republic of Turkey. We will build a state based on the Islamic state. After him, Da Tayyip Erdogan says that in Eskişehir: "Sir, these opponents of ours, we will succeed in terrorism," the opposition parties are furious and furious.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0086par0347	He didn't say that, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0348	Go read it. So I asked him a question. We have a saying: How do you know who he is? I know it like I know it. I know it like I know it. I said, Mr. Tayip, are you mad at political opponents when they have a success?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0086par0350	He didn't use a statement like that.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0087par0351	Don't be an asshole!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0352	I asked him a question. I asked him a question.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0088par0353	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0087par0354	Hey! Mr. Kamer, behave, behave!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0355	Let's see, he'll answer me.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0089par0356	Mr. Young, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0090par0357	Watch your fucking mouth!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0358	He'll hear what you're saying.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0091par0359	How dare you talk to a Prime Minister like that, you'll be moral!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0360	That's what he said.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0092par0361	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0084par0362	I'm the one who said...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0093par0363	You'll be moral!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0094par0364	Watch your fucking mouth!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0093par0365	You'll be moral!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0095par0366	Now I'm telling him what I told him. He says that the opposition parties are a success...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0096par0367	Please speak in a clean language, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0093par0368	There's no need for rudeness!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0097par0369	Watch your fucking mouth! Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0370	I can hear you. I'm gonna blow your cover at the Department of Youth and Sports. You talk too much.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0093par0371	We don't want to hear such vulgar talk!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0372	And then he says, "Sir... what if someone says something now, I'll answer it, I'm the MP of the opposition party."
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0099par0373	What the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0374	He says to me, "You're mad with grief, you're mad with anger." So I said, "Are you mad or not?" That's my right.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0100par0375	Would he say something like that? He didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0099par0376	Watch your mouth!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0377	Now it's time to find out who the Fury is.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0099par0378	What does he hear about you?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0379	Now, with this law you've brought in, sir, you're setting up an asset rental company. We ask them now: "Those who sit in the presence of the government are making small talk.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0099par0380	What the hell are you doing?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0101par0381	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0382	They're not even answering. Look at these government lines, shame on you! Is there a man here? Is there one here? Where are they? Where is he now?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0102par0384	They work, they work.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0385	What are they looking to bargain with? Why is this Parliament working so late, and where are they?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0102par0386	They're working.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0387	Let him come and sit here. What kind of parliament is that? Is there a government that would be disrespectful to such a House? So what are you doing? Sir, we're going to sell state assets. Do you know how to sell them? Sir, you're going to give the Prime Minister's office to a rental company. You'll also give me the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I asked that man who was sitting in the government.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0102par0389	He's the Minister, Minister.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0103par0390	That's the CHP's quality, folks. That's the CHP.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0391	You're probably going to tear Turkey apart the day after tomorrow anyway, so you're going to include him in the asset company. So since you've incorporated public property into the asset company, tomorrow you'll include Turkey in the asset company and put a value on it.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0103par0392	It's quality!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0393	So, who's going to buy this asset company, which is going to be set up according to which firm, which law will be set up, what organs will be, what profits will be made, how many people will work here, what profit will they have, it's not clear. Now, look, guys, I got a broadcast today, and it says, "Do you know these things? Did you know that the world-famous Fortune magazine Recep Tayyip Erdogan wrote that he was one of the 100 richest men in the world and that this magazine did not enter Turkey?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0104par0395	Her heart is rich. He's in everyone's heart.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0105par0396	Why don't you check the apartments, those apartments?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0098par0397	Now, besides that, you're selling public summer homes. So, who's gonna buy these? Because, you know, you're such an insatiable power... after a game or a game. What are you going to do? You'll take the most valuable property of the state, by the sea, and you'll have it for free. That's how you brought down Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, since there's not enough time, I'll answer that another time.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0106par0402	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0107par0403	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. Mr. Canikli, please don't make a new tease out of this. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0108par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. Really, it's not like we're talking, but since we can't find another word -- we're very sorry to hear such talks being held in this Parliament. We're sad, I mean really, really not to take it seriously, but of course some of the viewers who watch can be confused, so, therefore, don't take it seriously, because if you don't, from top to bottom, wherever you look, there's nothing in it, there's nothing in it, there's nothing in it. Is there any decency? No. Any ethics? No. Is there any truth? No. But what's going on? Lies, lots of lies. Can you actually put one thing out there? It doesn't. It's a shame. It's a shame. I mean, if everyone tells you about everybody, it's gonna make this country miserable.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0109par0411	Well, good for you, Canicli, this really isn't going to work!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0108par0412	This country will be insufferable.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0110par0413	But it suits him.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0108par0414	I know that the majority of those who live here, the majority of those who are in this House, maybe almost all of them, don't approve of this conversation. You can criticize him, no one can object to him, but that can't happen. So let's go out, and we'll attack everything you care about, anything you think is valuable, and we'll say everything, and there's no evidence at all! Isn't that right? No! If we're not looking for decency, we're not looking for morality, let's say everything! Is that even possible? Of course we don't, we can't.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0111par0415	It's beneath us, not our style!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0112par0416	But it suits him, it doesn't suit us!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0108par0417	We won't, but... but...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0113par0418	The Minister will sell the country if he wants to!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0108par0419	Now, look, sir, here's a magazine that's been published, and it's in 100 rich statesmen... friends, do you have any evidence, any documents, any evidence of that? No.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0114par0420	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0108par0421	Then what is it? It's a lie. A comet is a lie, a lie from head to toe, a lie from the right, a lie from the left, a lie from behind, a lie from the bottom, a lie from the back, a lie from the son of lies. What can I say? I mean, how can I say it? How do I explain my kindness without breaking the rule, how do I explain it? It's a shame, it's a shame! I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0115par0424	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0425	Mr. President, in his speech, there's no decency, there's no morality.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0115par0426	Yeah, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0117par0427	Mr. President, he didn't say, "There's no decency in talking," he said.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0429	Now, look, you're still people who don't understand what a great state this Republic of Turkey state is, what an honorable citizenship that state citizenship is.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0118par0431	We're gonna learn from you?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0432	Now, on the one hand, the state is dying, the state is falling apart, its army is being destroyed.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0118par0433	Your political sense is falling apart, tell me that.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0434	On the one hand, I'll tell my master that the Muslim Brothers, Hamas, Al Qaeda are running around Turkey. You destroyed the government's resources. Then your president says: "The opposition rages, rages!"
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0119par0435	Don't be angry, brother, don't be mad!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0120par0436	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0437	I'm mad, you're mad. I'm not mad, you're mad. I'm mad. You're freaking out. I'm not mad. I'm mad.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0121par0438	Mr. Kamer, go drink a tripe!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0439	Therefore, I will repay those who speak ill of me.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0122par0440	Don't be mad, don't be mad!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0441	So, now, do you want the state of the Republic of Turkey to be divided, or not? If you don't want to, why don't you do what's necessary in return?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0123par0442	Are you dreaming?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0443	Here, the corruption brought in...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0124par0444	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0445	Look Canikli, for example, let's ask Mr. Mehmet if a relative of Canikli's in Antalya rented land, sports facilities? Did he rent it or not?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0125par0446	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0126par0447	And tell him about his son's apartments, his son's apartments.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0448	I heard from him, I heard from him.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0125par0449	I'll answer that.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0450	Look, Canikli, out there, someone rented the land from the woods and gave it to your relative. Did he or didn't he?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0125par0451	I'll answer.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0127par0452	You don't go anywhere with a hand.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0453	Your relative, is he or is he not vice president of the People's Bank? Now, I'll bring something here about all of you. Look, you don't run this state honestly, you've brought the government to bankruptcy.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0128par0455	You answer for your own son's apartments.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0129par0456	What did you drink to get here? What did you drink?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0116par0457	People are unemployed, hungry, people are selling their kidneys. Now, even though you've put a state in this position, it's embarrassing, even in this state of yours. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So get your act together in that respect.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0130par0462	Why don't you answer for your son? First you answer to your son and then you ask him for the check.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0463	A relative of mine in Antalya...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0132par0464	But you've already stated in your speech that it shouldn't be taken seriously, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0466	But at the same time, the citizen must not be confused.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0132par0467	No, sir, I'll get the transcripts... I didn't promise, Mr. Canicli, please.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0132par0469	No, I didn't promise. I'll have the records brought up, so you've just made such a promise here.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0470	Mr. President, I have one more sentence to follow. People need to be answered so they don't get confused.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0132par0471	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0474	Dear friends, first of all, I have no relatives in Antalya or any such situation. It's a lie, slander...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0133par0475	It suits him.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0476	Yes, the rose is there, so Mr. Kamer looks good on you, but it suits you. And a mufti who can't prove such a slander, I don't want to use any harsher words. I mean, then I'll tell you everything about you, and I'll tell you everything I can think of, then it gives me the right to retaliate, which gives me the right to do it. Is that even possible? You're gonna say everything you can think of, and then you're gonna laugh. Something like that, something like that...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0134par0477	Oh, okay, or you don't have it. Say it.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0478	I'm telling you, it's slander, it's lies, it's lies. It suits you, it suits you!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0134par0479	Okay, then I'll prove it. No, don't you have any relatives at the People's Bank?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0480	Because you're probably one of the world's most expert people in fabricating lies. Can such a person be? Is that an insult? I mean, really, I don't have the decency or understanding. Otherwise, so much can be said from here, so much can be said!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0135par0481	Don't engage, President, don't engage.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0482	It's a shame!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0136par0483	Who's stopping you?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0484	I'm telling you, look, it's a lie, it's slander. Sir, when something like this happened, he heard... it's a lie. No, I don't.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0136par0485	I swear Mr. Mehmet told me. Mr. Mehmet is here.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0487	Then I'll tell you that Mr. Ahmet has told you, Mr. Hasan has told you... that I'm basing a thousand times the same slander or a thousand times the claim against you. There you go. I'll bet you a thousand times, come out now. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0137par0488	He'll do anything!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0489	Now, that's what you call a prude; morality, morality is very important. Everything, yes, should be considered. Please put yourself in. One of them comes out, and he's slandering you in a way that has nothing to do with the truth. What do you do? I'm asking you. This could be about your president, it could be about you, because he's doing it right now, it's the same thing.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0138par0490	The vice president of the group needs to apologize.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0491	Then it gives me the opportunity to tell anyone who's been exposed to him any kind of claim.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0138par0492	The vice president of the group needs to come out and apologize.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0493	Well, if there's no evidence to prove it, if there's no burden to prove it, then he might be able to throw away any allegations, any slander.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0139par0495	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0131par0496	You need to apologize. You'll know! I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0140par0499	The vice president of the group needs to apologize.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0141par0500	I'll look into it in Antalya.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0142par0501	He says he'll look into it.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0141par0502	A friend of the Canikli's, a very close friend of his, was hired from the Ministry of Forest to the Ministry of Sports, and from there, a relative of Canikli's, I'll say I was wrong.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0142par0503	He says he'll look into it. Here, he casts the slander, then I will search it out. He says. Throw away the slander, I'll investigate. Say it!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0141par0504	You're so loud, I know all your shit!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0142par0505	What kind of shit do you know? Tell me your own shit! Why don't you answer for your son?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0143par0511	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There's a motion on item one, I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Among the definitions added to Article 1 of the 443 Numbered Bill, we also propose that the definition of the State's external debt be added after its definition of the State's external debt. Bulent Kuşoğlu Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam (Possible State foreign debt: Financial obligation under the guarantee of treasury, added, and private budgetary management and companies' loans and the amount of do-and-do-run or rental type investments (e.g. loans) Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0144par0522	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0143par0523	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0145par0524	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0143par0525	Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0146par0527	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. My dear friends, it's good to be sensitive about these insults, of course, the reputation of the House is very important, and it's very important to all of us, but it's important to have these seats empty, and it's important to have the government's ranks empty when the laws are being discussed.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0147par0529	CHP rows, CHP rows...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0146par0530	When a 59-point bag of law comes in front of us -- these are the items that involve 27 different laws -- we have to respond the same way when these are so important, when the desks are empty, when the bureaucracy makes us work like this at this time, and that's an insult to us. Last week, a 91-point bag of law, 59-point bag of law this week. There's no way... as I just said, we need to be sensitive and react in this matter, as I said, that the issues that need to be regulated, that need to be addressed as the law, are related to the status of the Assembly. Let me switch to matter, and you can see it in Article 1, which is immediately added to the new definitions. In the new definitions, you feel that the treasure is anxious to borrow more. So, you see, you have the same tendency as the definition of state external debt, the definition of guaranteed opportunity, the expansion of general costs. Dear friends, in Turkey, crises happen when the exchange is over. For him, Turkey is constantly in need of debt. I understand that. Now, that concern is also in the government, and I understand that, but there is no understanding of recent concessions from financial stability. We're going in a bad direction, that's the trend. And with this material, we can clearly see this trend. Look, with these recent changes, additional changes in the law in this bag are being handed out especially the treasury guarantees. First amendments were made in the A.P.R. law, in the do-and-do-development. Then, a make-and-treating model was brought in. Many issues have been covered from national parks to resorts, energy investments. After a while, we're going to say: "Look, the budget isn't open." Or "It's a very low deficit." However, the budget gives a huge deficit. We're doing a computation on the Plan and Budget Commission, and we've done this calculation: there's going to be investments in a few years, outside the budget, outside the budget, except for about $100 billion. It's a burden that comes into the budget, with the treasury guarantees, we have to remember that. That means it's going to be a big problem. We need to see this. Dear friends, the debt supply will not be increased. Once again, our Minister will say that the public debt rate is 38 percent GDP. But it won't really be, it's actually going to be at least 15-20 points above that. So we've brought here the concept of possible state debt so that we can also follow it, and this is known by the treasure. Maybe it's a bit of a funny concept, but the treasure has to keep an eye on it. It's as important as direct debts, and it looks like there's going to be a big problem with the new system. Dear friends, with this bag of laws, 4749, which is a very important law, many of its articles are changed, many of its articles are breached. This allows municipalities to borrow other than the treasure, which we will see when we get there, but according to the fact that the municipalities are in debt with bond exports and that we have received information that the city of Istanbul will first have a green light or they have a demand for both the treasure and the debt of the municipalities will be a big problem for Turkey. We need to be sensitive about this, too... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We need to be as sensitive about this as we are to our least honor, our dignity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0148par0540	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0149par0541	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit02spe0148par0542	I will submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0148par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. The decision issued by Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu and his friends on Article 1 of the 443 rows of the Bill of Law was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 2 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 2nd draft of the current bill 443 rows. We move that Turkish Trade Law No. 6102 be removed from the text of the article and added the statement under the provisions of Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, regardless of its provisions on the organisation, registration, control, capital, liquidation and functioning. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second one to change the second joke in Article 7/A of the 443 Numbered Bill 4749. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Fair Kurt Nursel Aydoğan Sırrıyya Leader Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0150par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0148par0022	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0151par0023	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0148par0024	I'm reading the reason: At the same time, these structures are exempted from such obligations as taxes and mortar, which the law states, which have uncovered a new public financing model and made the ministry the only authority on this issue. A public financing model should be presented with an arrangement that is more specific and more clearly highlighted by public interests. A change is intended to enable a more accurate arrangement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 2nd draft of the current bill 443 rows. We move that Turkish Trade Law No. 6102 be removed from the text of the article and added the statement under the provisions of Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, regardless of its provisions on the organisation, registration, control, capital, liquidation and functioning. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0152par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0148par0034	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0153par0035	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0148par0036	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0154par0038	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. There are many lawyers among you. My dear friends, what do you think of when you think of the company? An anonymous company, by the company's terms, is established by the minister's approval of an anonymous company. What does the expression mean to you? Mr. Secretary, don't be forced, let's make another invention, let's build a public corporation, let's set up private sector anonymous companies, add this to the Turkish Trade Law, let's say that public companies are never subject to registration, broadcast, ever auditing, ever liquidating, the Turkish Trade Law. Let's put a clause in the Turkish Trade Law, in the general thing, so you don't get tired, we don't get tired. When we think of the anonymous company, we think of a company that was founded according to the Turkish Trade Law. It's all set up, how to build an anonymous company. You're creating an invention. Before, before we came to the Commission, friends, do you know what that was like? They're getting the minister's approval on a piece of paper, that's it; the company's been established. Who's in charge, whose control, who's in charge of signatures, who's representing against the outside? Can a company without registration or ads, friends, express judgment? There are many lawyers among you, my friends. Can that happen, guys? You're doing business for a government, building a company that represents a state outside. Mr. Secretary, either call it "fon" for this... so don't get tired, and we won't get tired. Call it a treasure fund, set up a treasure fund, then there's no need to start a company, but it'll be established with the minister's approval. For one thing, it's no longer a company. My dear friends, my fellow lawyers, would a company that exports bonds on behalf of a country be built so seriously? We offer it to your appreciation. We've said it over and over again, and we've barely had the ad put in. Friends, you will register your business record, this company's main contract will pass through the notary, this company will be registered and advertised. A company that doesn't cover that -- who's in charge, who's in charge -- is a company, guys? I offer it to your conscience, to your appreciation. If you insist, bring it in, and we'll put a clause in the Turkish Trade Act. Let us put in general provisions of the Turkish Trade Law, and let no one laugh at us as we represent this country outside. They'll laugh at us. The anonymous company has a status. This is subject to the general provisions of the Turkish Trade Law. No red tape... Mr. Secretary, if you must have red tape. An institution, if you're going to export such bonds to Turkey, should be a serious anonymous company. There's no book, no balance sheet, no ads, nothing. Friends, what an anonymous company gets, what it gives, how many bonds it exports, how many bonds it has in its book, how much it pays, don't they register? They're in the book, aren't they? But you're missing everything. It's impossible to understand. Come on, let's help you. Come, let's help, we'll offer a law, we'll put a clause in the Turkish Trade Law. Companies to be made in the name of the public are just registrations, everything outside the rules of the Trade Act, make a general judgment. Today to the treasure, tomorrow to another ministry, tomorrow to another ministry... it's a piece of cake. No, friends, Turkey is a serious country. Sir, if the treasure of the Republic of Turkey is doing something, it must be serious. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's no way to get serious, fellas. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0155par0047	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 3 of the 443 Numbered Bill of Law, we shall charge a guarantee to one percent of the first sentence of Article 8 of Article 8 (We shall offer and propose that five guarantees be changed to five per cent of the terms of the declaration shall be paid. Bulent Kuşoğlu Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Rahmi Türeli of Love Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd draft of the 443 rows bill. I propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Fair Kurt Secret by Darayya Leader Property One Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0156par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0155par0062	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0157par0063	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0155par0064	I'm reading the reason: The law clause, envisioned to change the bill, will reduce investment spending, regardless of the type of investment or what happens to anyone who uses foreign loans, and will eliminate investment costs, regardless of the type of investments. The infrastructure bill for the government, which has been encouraging foreign capital to enter the country for years, has not been prepared enough because of the infrastructure bill for bringing a guarantee of treasure in the use of loans provided with this capital. The application for loans that have been used so far has not been expressed. Therefore, the clause must be removed from the bill. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 3 of the 443 Numbered Bill of Law, we shall charge a guarantee to one percent of the first sentence of Article 8 of Article 8 (We shall offer and propose that five guarantees be changed to five per cent of the terms of the declaration shall be paid. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0158par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0155par0074	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0159par0075	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0155par0076	Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0160par0078	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. Dear friends, these rental certificates, this issue of the asset rental company, it's very important. Mr Badak had just mentioned the existence of a company during his precious speech, but in the sense that we know -- Mr Aslanoglu just asked, what do you understand when he said "an anonymous company"? -- there is no presence of an anonymous company in the sense that you understand. This issue, this rent certificate, is very important in three ways. One: the state's presence, its credibility. It says "Republic of Turkey" on the rental certificates, it needs to be very reliable. It's very important in that sense, because we're the government. Number two: it's very important for the rule of law. Law above all, certain rules need to be understood and above all else. It's very important in this regard. And thirdly, from a certain point of view, the individual's beliefs should not be abused, there shouldn't be any abuse of faith. It's important in these ways. Look, when we look at the rent certificates from this asset rental company, we see that you don't really have a company. It's been explained: no company, no board president, no capital, no general manager, no notebooks, no documents, nothing. It was issued a $6 billion certificate and distributed to Muslim people, and they took it with confidence in this Republic of Turkey. But that's interest; it's written on it, you see that. You're looking at business flow, which normally should be: the asset rental company really needs to have real estate on it, it really needs to rent those real estates, it needs to actually get the rent income. There's no real estate here, and there's no real estate because there's no real estate company on it. It wasn't really built, and we cheated on people, six billion dollars -- I don't know -- thousands of Muslims -- as the Republic of Turkey. Is that what's going to happen? How can we say yes to that? Don't our consciences hurt? How can we do that? Does our faith not hurt? I'm trying to make it clear that we're doing a wrong job for both the state and the law, for our faith, for our faith. This needs to be fixed. I appeal to your consciences. There's no such company. Look, it wouldn't matter if the treasure had just removed the treasure bonds, like the other transactions, put in a certain interest. People trusted us, they came, I get a non-payment certificate. They got caught in a system that pays less interest than that. Is that what's going to happen? I'm telling you again what's supposed to happen: there's gotta be a flow of transactions, there's gotta be real estate, but there's got to be capital for real estate. There's no such thing because there's no company, no real estate. It's not exactly clear which real estates. We've asked many times, we can't figure out what real estate is on top of this company. Even on paper, they don't exist. These real estates will be leased, literally rented, paid rent, and the rent certificate will be issued via it; it does not exist. So, what do we do? What kind of government are we? Are we banana republics? Are we a Turkish National Assembly, a state that exploits people's religion, their faith? Are we a state that defies the rule of law and has no credibility? I appeal to the sensitivity of all of you in these matters. I know you guys are sensitive about these things. I think you would appreciate that such an issue should not be considered politically. Again, to your consciences. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0161par0087	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 of the same nature, which I will have read and process together. I'll make a separate promise to those who have motions, if they demand it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4rd Amendment of the current 443 rows. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Müslim Sarı of the Cervix of Love İdris Bauken Erol Dora Fair Kurt Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0162par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0161par0109	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0163par0110	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0161par0111	Mr. Vural, is there any word on the motion, or shall we have it read?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0164par0112	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0161par0113	I'm having it read. A result appears to be being encouraged by municipal exports abroad. There's already a notice on the loans. The municipalities can export bonds themselves. With the Treasury's debts due to Ankara Municipality in the open, such an arrangement could lead to abuse. I'm reading the other reason for the BDP's motion: The use of Law 6183, for exports of bonds that have been heavily demanded in recent years, will bring with it the inadequacies and additional changes. Bond exports must be organised with a more comprehensive change in capital markets for bond exports. The proposed amendment to the bill will lead to new problems in the implementation, as Law 6183 is inadequate. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0165par0121	Mr. President, I have received a pledge regarding the 4th Amendment. I'd like to make a general assessment first. If there is financial stability in Turkey after the 2001 crisis, especially if significant progress has been made in public finances, surely one of the main reasons is Law 4749. This law, especially in terms of treasury guarantees and conditional obligations, has thought to bring an arrangement after the severe traumas of the 2001 crisis. Treasure guarantees have been set up, public finances have been implemented in excess of non-interest policies, and in this sense serious gains have been achieved. However, when we look at a number of laws that have been following us lately, concerns have become clear to the opposition that a conditional obligation can be opened again in the public. We tried to explain it in the responsibility of opposition when all these laws were brought here in a row. Although the treasury guarantees have been set some limits, and these limits are in the annual budgetary budgets, especially in the middle and long term, and we see that there are some laws, very quickly, that could put Turkey at serious risk, in the last year. We could be dealing with processes like this, and the government could come up to us and say, "Well, as a government, I'm putting a limit on the annual budget here on treasury guarantees, but when the next year comes, I'm raising this limit -- for example, 300 percent. Thus, we see that the area of conditional obligations that do not appear in budgets, which do not appear in debt reserves, is opened in the middle and long term, which will seriously inconvenience the Treasury Undersecretary and public finances. Now, what this law is meant to bring with this clause of this bill is that if local governments are going to export bonds, and if this export is going to be the Undersecretary of Treasury, if they're going to be the guarantor for these guarantees in their budgets, then let a repayment account be set up by the Treasury Undersecretary or the related bank, and let these accounts be monitored in this repayment account. Now, from this point of view, it may seem extremely innocent, but we have the impression that, in the past tense, when we consider it with the following laws, in the middle and long term, local governments will be able to go to bond exports for some projects, and in exchange for these bond exports, the Undersecretary of Treasury can offer some guarantees, some commitments. In particular, there are concerns that such a situation can be encouraged by the definition of an undefined opportunity in Law 4749, which has not been previously defined. It's not true in that sense. From here, for the record, we warn again in opposition consciousness and responsibility, especially with the opening of a mechanism for bond exports by local governments, especially with the fact that the treasure is a garant, in the middle and long term, the achievements in public finances since 2001 can be seriously engineered. You know, there's been a law here, in particular, in the framework of the dol-rerala-development projects -- the Ministry of Health -- that's where we said our concerns were, and we said that the treasure was faced with the potential of being a garantor of some debt that the public-private sector would make, or investments. There's a similar app here. In our talks with the Plan and Budget Commission, it has been said that this was actually a step towards fiscal discipline, so even though Law 4749 did not have such a definition, we want to keep our concerns in the dark. We find it particularly dangerous in Turkey for financial discipline, especially in the fact that local governments are guaranteeing treasure in bond exports or that such an impression is being created. Therefore, we say that this judgment must be removed, and we say that we care about this for the record, and we expect support from the ruling party. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0166par0128	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that the declaration, which is intended to be brought with Article 5/5 of the 443 Numbered Legislature, should be replaced in the form of cash, debt, debt, and other Treasury transactions, which will be paid for the work, transactions, treasury guarantees and other services. Bulent Kuşoğlu Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0167par0139	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0166par0140	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0168par0141	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0166par0142	Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0169par0145	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again. Dear friends, regarding this asset rental company, he said that when we asked the Minister why a company wasn't built, when it needed to be built, it would cost a price, that it would bring a treasure of such a company without need, and we didn't do such a thing for no reason. And that's when I told him, Mr. Secretary, why was the Central Bank formed in the form of an anonymous company? The Central Bank is a public institution. Why was the Central Bank formed into an anonymous company? He has a general board every year, and he has a lot of problems with the general boards. In a moment, there's an arrangement with the Federal Reserve in the future. Why was the Central Bank established in the form of an anonymous company, which operates as an anonymous company, subject to the Trade Law, private law, but not by avoiding the expense of an asset rental company? Is it that insignificant? It shows that there's no state norm, or, unfortunately, that it's bankrupt there. It's a very important matter, we shouldn't jump. An asset rental company is a way to bring revenue to the state, a way to borrow money, a potential like that. This has to happen, especially when we have to be able to use this pool abroad, but as a government, we have to be honest, we have to act in accordance with the law, and we don't exploit anyone, especially the Muslim people who are committed to it. We're doing all three, unfortunately. There's no telling why we do it. I asked Mr. Secretary another question on the Commission. Where will a citizen or a stranger who's receiving a rental certificate file a lawsuit when he has a problem with an asset rental company, which court will he sue -- because he can't be subject to trade law, he can't sue the state -- which court will he go to and defend his rights, demand his rights? You know, there's no answer to a question like that, because there's an unknown asset rental company, and there's no telling what it is. We all need to rebel more than I do. We all need to rebel against such absurdity, such illegality, such abuse. Another question was, what are the real estates that have been sold to an asset rental company? We didn't get an answer to that either. What ministry buildings, what treasures, what real estate belongs to the government has been sold, what has been rented, how has it been rented, and what has not been found. Such a law, such an understanding, such an arrangement! So what if there was an anonymous company, if they actually had partners -- they could have public banks -- if they had real partners. It's also going to go to the government, and it's going to be the government that owns all the taxes, pictures, fees. What's the cost? Is there such a thing? He has no responsibilities, no problems at all. But they were said on the grounds of expense, and as a result, we exported a $6 billion rent certificate abroad, abroad, and thousands of people into the country, and if they ask tomorrow who's going to pay for it, who's going to pay for it, in this world and in the next, I'm asking for it, and the Grand Assembly of Turkey is responsible for it. Last time, when we passed the law, Mr. Secretary was authorized to rent assets, we didn't know what was going to happen, but we know what happened this time. We need to account for what happened -- there's also a supervisorial duty -- and we need to say, Mr. Secretary, this authority you've been given has not been used, it's been misused. You didn't get the lease certificate out by starting a company, you abused people with faith, you abused the government, you abused the law. We had to say it together, we had to be able to say it. Dear friends, I seek your sensitivity again, and respect you all.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0151	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 6th draft of the 443 rows bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Fair Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0171par0162	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0163	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0172par0164	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0165	I'm having it read. It is possible that the terms of the decontamination will be left to be determined by the Undersecretary and the central bank. It's not clear whether this moisturisation will be a physical investment or a cash assessment process. Therefore, the conditions for the amplification of the sums in the accounts need to be determined. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 8 of the 443 rows bill. I propose and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Fair Kurt Assad Canan Sırrıyya Leader Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0173par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0180	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0174par0181	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0182	I'm reading the reason: With exceptions in the bill clause, it grants tax exemption to the rent process. For higher bureaucrats and institutions, it's not clear whether he's brought exemptions to the rental arrangements for accommodation. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the 443 rows bill. I propose and propose that the other Treasury purchases be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Fair Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0175par0195	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0196	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0176par0197	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0198	I'm reading the reason: In the current case, the relevant clause of the law states that the pencils are sufficient and clear. These pens include the purchase of treasure. A statement, as they will receive other treasures, must be removed from the draft text of the statement, which will cause unpredictable results in implementation, since it will give the practitioners initiative. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose amendments to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management that the 12th Article of the Law shall be removed from the text of the 12th Amendment. Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0177par0213	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0214	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0178par0215	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0170par0216	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0179par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to begin by making a small statement regarding the earlier debate. Mr. Young said my name, and said something about Mr. Canikli. The topic mentioned a year ago in February is a matter of a sports facility located in the Uluçınar region of Antalya. The DSI was assigned to the sport, and they told a client over it to build in a different way -- a day-to-day facility. It is also an ecologically important area, a region of the caretta caretta. Our friends showed a sensitivity there, too. It was said to belong to a Giresunian businessman who built an area that shouldn't be built, a hotel next door. I didn't just say that part, just to explain the matter. As for the fact that we've already filed a motion to question the irregularities there -- the villagers have already filed a lawsuit -- and as for this agenda, the governor has temporarily halted construction, according to the court's ruling.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0180par0220	The contractor is Giresunlu?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0179par0221	Of course, I don't have a witness to the kinship part.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0180par0222	There's no relation.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0179par0223	But they said it was given to a Giresunian businessman by the public part, and that there was a conclusion, according to the ongoing court order, which was passed against Nature's Preservations in an irregular manner. That's the gist of it. After the question proposal, our friends stopped the process because of the public reaction. In this article, dear friends, the public institutions, or rather, the payments on these activities are to be made with immovables, so the profits to be made are to be made to distributions and subsidiaries -- maybe there's something special -- our friends told us, but it's meant to be done with non-movables instead of cash. We can't really see the point here. If they already have it, they'll have to have their cycles done in this way, if they've made a profit in cash, whatever it is. When it's out of practice, we're told specific purposes, but there's always questions in the head. We think it should be done according to the general provisions, based on what is present. We don't think it should be removed from the privatisation. I've been promised to say that on this occasion. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0181par0227	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 16 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft law of the current 443 rows. In the last paragraph of the article, we want to transfer the statement from the draft text to the special administration of the city, where there is no special administration, to the mayor of the city, and to the general budget. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam The Faik Tunay of Rahmi Love Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0182par0241	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0181par0242	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0183par0243	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0181par0244	Faik Tunay, İstanbul MP, who wants a word on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0184par0246	Mr. President, honorable members, I salute you with love. I have made a pledge on the 16th Amendment. Actually, there's not much to say about this substance. And it doesn't make much sense to discuss this stuff because it's completely against the general principle. Now, we're talking about hydropower plants, we're talking about electricity produced in Turkey, but we're not talking about any of the conditions for producing electricity in hydro power plants. What are these conditions? Water, streams, rivers, of course. What we need to produce electricity from a hydroelectric plant in the first place is the water supply, rivers, that we have in our country. Well, we produce this electricity, and sometimes when we produce electricity, we never talk about floods, disasters, and losses that happen in our country from time to time. We're just talking about, with this law, in the cities where the plant is located, where the hydropower plant is located, if there's a private administration of the province, the taxes will be transferred to the city's municipality unless it's in that special administration. But when there's a flood disaster, that flood can affect maybe more than one province until that hydroelectric plant is found, and that can cost billions of dollars in the provinces. Now, we called it the main product of hydroelectric plants. E, all of the predictions, all of the reports in the world say that in the years to come, great problems, great wars could arise because of water. Turkey is divided into 26 hydrologic basins. The average annual total flow of basins was recorded at 186 billion cubic metres. They all have different yields. Only Firat and Dicle basins have 25 per cent of the potential of our entire country. Over the years when you looked at floods, not just in Turkey, all over the world, there were about 1,400 floods in our country between 1955 and 2012, millions of people lost their lives and billions of dollars in damage. Well, now we're installing a hydropower plant where the dam is, we're getting electricity from that province, but when we get there, we say in the budget, let's just, let's just, let's just, let's just, let's just, let's just, let's just, let's just, let's just, let's put it into the city's private administration or the capital. But we never think about the damage, the loss, the damage, when a disaster occurs where the water flows, until the power is produced from that hydroelectric plant. When there's a loss, we're covering those losses through the general budget, but when there's income, we're just thinking about transferring revenue to the place where that hydropower plant was built. I mean, when you look at it, it's completely irrational. Now, some trustees might say that we can't consider the flood disaster or the disasters, taxing disasters, or income. But since these are the results, because we've encountered such events, and since 1955 -- as I've just said -- there's been over 1,400 euros of floods in our country -- and we've lost billions of dollars, the most logical thing is to transfer a share of that stream across the general budget into all the provinces. Yes, with the hydropower plant, it makes sense to have a bigger share of the dam and a bigger portion of the budget transferred there, of course, but at least some parts of the tax -- 10 percent, 15 percent, now it's discussed, it's talked about -- to be given to the provinces in those provinces, to the private governments of the provinces that don't exist, to the cities that don't exist. When that happens, the principle of generality is followed. But if it's not done that way, it's just when that hydropower plant is being transferred to it, it's unfair this time. E, a disaster is covered by the general budget when a disaster happens. And the way to get ahead of that is, as I've pointed out, it's more logical to give a share to the city's private administration, to the city's capital, depending on its size, according to the water's crossing miles. We think it's against the principle of generality, and I'm completing my words about it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0185par0257	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the 19th article, there are two proposals of the same nature, which I will read and process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th draft of the current 443 Rows bill. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Müslim Sarı of the Cervix of Love Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0186par0275	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0185par0276	Does the government agree with the same motions?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0187par0277	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0185par0278	On the motion, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0188par0279	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0185par0280	I'm reading the reason: The election of the Board of Control members by the General Assembly and the selection of members elected by the B, C and Class D shareholders by the Undersecretary of Treasury, a Class A shareholder, has been stripped of the power of the choice of shareholders B, C and D. Although the commission has lifted a motion to submit a notice on the grounds that a large number of real persons, who are class D shareholders, cannot be reached and therefore should be issued under the Turkish Trade Act, it is not understood why the audit board has been insisted on electing members of the general council. Turkey's Central Bank is a private legal person founded by special law, and its independence is a very important issue. With this arrangement, independence will be marred and completely out of control. So both management and control will be done by the public hand. Thus, there is no justification for the failure of the call to the owners of the shareholders and for the termination of members of the Board of Control to be elected by separate shareholders, and these regulations are not deemed appropriate. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the proposals.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0189par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'd like, let's first talk about what's being done with this clause, and then we'll talk about why it's not true. The Central Bank, as you know, has four kinds of shareholders: A, B, C, and Class D shareholders. Each of these shareholders gives one member to the Central Bank's audit board. So the A-class shares, the B-class shares, the C-class shares, the shares that belong to the bank, and the D-class shares that belong to the real people. Now, the law demands that all four members of the Central Bank's audit board be elected by the general board. So, all four of these members are actually supposed to be elected directly by the Undersecretary of Treasury, this is the arrangement the bill brings. Now, what's the reason for this arrangement? And the reason is, there's no way to get to the D-class shareholders, the real people. There are over 6,000 real people, we can't reach a lot of them, they're either dead or their legal heirs, and there's no way we're gonna get through. Well, it is, but then, why are you taking away the rights of B and C shareholders to select members of the Central Bank's Control Board? There's no explanation for this, there's no reason for it. Therefore, there is no complete discrepancy between motive and the arrangement intended to be made. There's a difference here, so let's figure it out first. Second, the Secretary of the Treasury has already made the appointment to all of the Central Bank's boards. So both the Bank Parliament and its vice president have the authority to establish themselves directly with the government, the Undersecretary of Treasury, or the government, in the trilateral decree. We don't think it's right that such an institution is directly identified by the treasure. For a few reasons, we don't think it's true, but for the most important reason, we think it's an application that will bring about the autonomy and independence of the Central Bank. Thus, if there is a gain in terms of price stability in recent years, according to the 1990s, the central bank's independence, autonomy stands in a very important place. It is extremely important to stay away from any practice that will bring about the independence and autonomy of the Central Bank. It is the government's duty to protect it, as well as its duty to the opposition. I'd like to point out that we really care about this from this point of view. In the work we've done in the Plan and Budget Commission, I'd like to call it tragic that it's actually coming from the Central Bank, not from the Treasury Undersecretary. They should most likely protect the independence and autonomy of the Central Bank, the employees and executives of that institution. Therefore, I consider it unfortunate that this proposal came from the Central Bank. As a result, this proposal is a proposal that undermines the independence of the Central Bank, and we think it's true that each of the A, B, C, and Class-D shareholders, as they used to be, each of them will select a member of the Board of Control, or the old practice. We believe that the current application or the application that was intended to be brought with this bill is incorrect, that it is contrary to the independence of the Central Bank. In this framework, we made this suggestion, and we expect support from power. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0190par0298	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The motions of the same nature have not been accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose amendments to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management, which is currently in session, and the release of Article 21 of the Law Act. Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0191par0311	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0190par0312	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0192par0313	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0190par0314	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0193par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, in this article and in the previous articles, there are provisions concerning the Central Bank's audit board. Of course, not only as a former Central Banker, but as an academic who teaches about the independence of the Central Bank, I don't think it's true. I told my friends, and I told the Minister upstairs. Why do you say, the Central Bank shares here are class-separated groups A, B, C, D, and these classes choose the members of the Board of Control. With the arrangements we bring, we recommend that the treasure choose all of it, so the general board says, politely, we suggest the treasure chooses it. What we're doing here is that our friends have told us that we can't reach real-person partners, so this could result in developments that could have led to the cancellation of the general council, but we've already eliminated it by removing the obligation to give notice in the other article. In this case, the remaining arrangement only determines the selection of the member of the Board of Control. So, we didn't object to that clause, but what's left here after the D-class shareholders' problem is lifted? There are national banks and partners to choose as private and corporate individuals. I mean, you're already picking three. And on behalf of the national banks, you're already telling the Agriculture Bank that they're setting it up. There's one Board of Inspection... If they choose one of the four, what happens if they choose one of them, and if they choose one of them, they have the right to be heard. So this stuff is useless here. The clause, which they said, was not subject to the Turkish Trade Law, so there was no obstacle to making the General Assembly. Why are we saying this, dear friends? Some of our friends here are telling us that the Turkish Trade Law and the control board for companies have been lifted, but the other articles of the Central Bank Law are still there, and I've read them, so I don't study here so I don't take your time, so the duties of the Board of Control continue. The audit board is also an indicator board for the independence of the Central Bank, which means it can take all the accounts and look at them if necessary, not just for show. This isn't about outside control, it's a board inside the bank. For him, the Central Bank's independence is important and debated, and in an environment where financial crises are everywhere, in terms of the implementation of monetary policy, even as an indicator, I say that the election of that member of the Board of Control has a symbolic value, and let's not take that down. That's why we made this motion. The intended purpose has already been established by the previous clause, so there's no problem with the general board. Therefore, I present to you and the Minister's compliments. If you care about the independence of this Central Bank, there's nothing in the selection of one of the 4 Board of Control members to the shareholders of Group D; there's just one issue at the point of representation, so let's not take it away from them, let's have one member there. Chosen, unelected, that's one thing, but I think these things need to be represented there. Again, I offer you your opinion, I hope you will support our motion, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0194par0325	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0195par0326	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Çay, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Acar, Mr. Onur, Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Dibek. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in the 26th article, which I will read and process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 26th draft of the current 443 Rows bill. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Engin Özkoch of the Cradle of Rahmi Love Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0196par0355	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0195par0356	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0197par0357	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0195par0358	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0198par0359	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0195par0360	I'm reading the reason: Its 26th article includes the Act on Building-Employment of Some Investments and Services No. 3996 with Article 8/6/1994; congressional centre, cultural and tourism investments, commercial buildings and facilities, sports facilities, dorms, theme parks, silo and storage facilities, geothermal and waste heating systems, rail systems, stations, stations, teleferic and wiring facilities. The number of public private sector co-operation practices in our country has been increasing rapidly in recent years. There are also very important risks in financing, building and running projects with public private partnerships. These projects cost more than the work done by classical financing, and are reflected in the unit price of the product produced under the project. So when projects are being evaluated and the project selection is being made, it is necessary to make absolute comparisons and approximations of benefits and assets. Public Special Partnership investments are clearly the property of public debt, but the amount of debt is not known because it is not listed as public debt. Legal regulations for public-special co-operation are not in a particular systematic framework. This area must be regulated in accordance with the Constitution with a framework law, establishing a stable legal basis where the public-special co-operation process can function in a healthy manner. The conditional obligations to public investments carried out through public-special co-operation have taken on a definition that threatens the approach of public fiscal discipline and the first financing of public investments, the negative impacts on the budget, the negative impacts on cash and debt management and its non-transparency structures. From the formation of the conditional obligations, management, control, reporting and budgeting to accounting, all processes that are subject to restructuring are required. Engin Özkoç, MP of Sakarya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0369	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Right now, Mr. Sadik Yakut is presiding, our Speaker. Mr. Ali Babacan is here with his bureaucrats. Why am I saying this? For the record, because I'm going to take this CD. I'm going to distribute it to lawmakers in my district first. Let me tell you about these recordings if my dear constituents are listening. It's now 11:58; in two minutes, my esteemed constituents, we will complete a day. We started this session at two o'clock. Since two...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0200par0373	We started on three.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0374	We started on three, we've been going on three. In two minutes, this session will be over, starting a new day. We don't know how long that'll take. It's just, here, Mr. Canicli and his friends, if someone steps in their veins, they jump right in, they listen, but my dear friends talk about very important things over and over again, they're all out in the halls of Congress, but my dear friends come here if they want to check in.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0201par0376	He's on hold.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0377	Look, I just stepped on his veins, and my friend just started popping out.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0202par0378	Where are your friends?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0379	They have nothing to do with the issues of Turkey, nothing to do with the issues of the country. My friends are videotaping it now. Now, the friends who have been pushed into your veins are going to pop out one by one, and you're going to see them in the video, they're being filmed. They're not interested in country matters at all. They only listen to what they are commanded, and they raise their hands, and they lower them, and they do nothing but what they are commanded. They only follow what they are told. They don't do what opposition MPs who address their conscience say. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, are you listening to their voices? Are you guys filming?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0203par0384	How do you talk?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0385	Do you listen to their voices?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0203par0386	Do you know what you're saying? Watch your language!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0387	Here, this country is being divided, while Muslims are being shot, they never make a sound.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0203par0388	You're talking nonsense, it's empty!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0389	Five minutes ago, they were all head-butting in front of them.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0203par0390	Don't talk nonsense, it's empty!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0391	They were never loud, and now it's just starting to come out.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0204par0392	You're talking nonsense, it's empty!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0203par0393	You're always talking nonsense, it's empty!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0394	Now, my fellow congressmen, I'm going to talk about the do-and-do model. None of these, but none of them, will listen to this, because it's like the clock that's just been set, do you agree, Mr. Speaker? When he says, "Do you agree?" They will look at Mr. Canikli in the front, and if he raises his hand, they will raise their hands. They won't look at their conscience, as Mr. Bulent Kusoglu said.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0204par0396	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0397	Because they don't act on their conscience here, they don't speak on their own conscience here, they just follow orders here.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0205par0398	Mr. President, he's turning me on.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0399	They don't perform their duties here as a congressman.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0206par0400	Look here, look here!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0401	Those who carry out their duties are the opposition MPs, and they're the ones who are trying to do their duty by this hour.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0207par0403	Where are the MPs, where are they?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0199par0404	They'll, you know, they'll talk if they get hit in the veins now. So no matter what I say about the do-and-do model, Mr. Speaker will soon say: "Those who agree?" They will look at Mr. Canikli and raise their hands. My dear friends, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0208par0407	Thank you. I'm asking you now: those who accept the same motions, those who refuse, the motions of the same nature are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 27: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the final paragraph of Article 27 of the current bill 443 rows be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Ali Serindağ of Rahmi Love Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose amendments to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management, which is currently in session, and the release of Article 27 of the Law Act. Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0209par0424	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0208par0425	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0210par0426	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0211par0427	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0208par0428	I'm reading the reason: Under Article 27 of the bill, the Ministry of Culture's investments and services for cultural and tourism in Yassıada and Ezada have noted that there are no restrictions and procedures under law 3996 on public institutional enterprises or planning, development and construction practices and other regulations on the coastal law and other legislation. Given that the Commission has not been given sufficient information on what to do, it has become clear that it is possible that the coasts of these islands will be looted and the Rant accounts will take the lead. This item must be removed from the text, which is intended only for the two islands and brings an undetermined arrangement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the final paragraph of Article 27 of the current bill 443 rows be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0212par0439	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0208par0440	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0213par0441	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0208par0442	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0444	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, my friend, who just spoke, Mr. Engin Ozkoc, he really sums up the situation very well, he described it very well, very...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0215par0446	It makes a lot of sense...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0447	Yeah, that's kind of a catch.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0216par0448	We're very impressed. We're very impressed.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0449	Now, like this, you'll be impressed, you won't be affected... My dear friends, you don't have to listen to what we have to say.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0217par0451	Some people talk, some people do. You talk, we do our job.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0218par0452	Mr. Engin is gone, let him be restrained.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0453	But when you put your head on the pillow, consider what we're saying. You see the House as an institution where a formality is being carried out. Look, our citizens don't know what we're talking about here, our citizens don't watch the talks. What are you guys doing? You're missing council meetings from the eyes of our citizens. Why? Because you don't want our citizens to supervise you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0218par0455	Where's the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0456	Second, you invented an institution called the basic law. The standards of the basic law are listed in the Parliamentary Civil Charter. Now, put your hand on your conscience, which of the laws we're dealing with are above and beyond as basic law? None of them, including the bill we discussed. We work here until the middle of the night to produce a lot of texts. Look, the Minister is here. The Central Bank is independent. There is a law, right? Is the Central Bank independent? If the Central Bank is independent, let the Minister review what his cabinet friend said about the president of the Central Bank. What's he saying? The president of the Central Bank is an officer. He says he can't speak. And then there's the fact that it's like being an officer is such a bad thing? My dear friends, so we'll be sincere. That's the same stuff you brought in. What do you say? Sir, you're saying we're going to build a museum of democracy for Yassuada? Now, let's look at your time management: My dear friends, where is the law? The law is in the way. Is there anyone who's ever considered judicial independence? Who's to say the judgment is independent? Mr. Prime Minister says we told the judge, they'll do what they have to do. Does he say? He says. What did you do with the training? You've brought a system called 4+4+4, you've religiousized education. What have you done yet? You've emptied the secular principle. Look, every day we read about it in the papers, sheets and sheets. My dear friends, you have not given up on democracy. Look, God rest his soul, the late Mr. Menderes, when his son says he's going to do business when he finishes school, you can't do business. You're going to be a civil servant, he said, because he knew that when they were trading, something could be attributed to him, but what are you doing now? You buy boats before your kids finish school.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0219par0460	Like which one? Name, name.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0461	Look, Mr. President's 16-year-old son is going on a trip as a businessman.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0220par0462	What about the museum of democracy?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0221par0463	Why don't you come to your motion and we'll take advantage?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0464	He's going on a field trip as a businessman. Think about it when you put your head on the pillow. What do you say now? You're saying: "Sir, we'll give authority to public institutional occupational institutions."
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0222par0466	What do you suggest?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0467	Do you know what you've done to public enterprises? What do you say last week you changed the Law on the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges? The Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey is obliged to follow the Ministry's instructions, you say. Is that an understanding?
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0223par0468	Let's make an opening monument to the Imran, opening...
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0214par0469	I mean, can you, like, live with democracy like this? What are you doing, sir? We're going to give it to the public institutional institutions. What about E? He'll give it to the company he wants. What will he do? He will plan it as he wishes, he will regulate the zoning situation, and he will be free from the restrictions set by the Coastal Law, and he will not be subject to the restrictions set by the law. You can't live democracy like this. You don't have a problem with democracy, my dear friends. I bid you all good evening, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0224par0473	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0225par0474	Mr. Ali, let's make an opening monument to the Imran!
tbmm-2013-04-02sit03spe0224par0475	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-02sit04spe0224par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 443. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Ukrainian Council of Ministers with the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (April 3rd 2013) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (April 3rd 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
