tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can answer in 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Mushan, who wants to talk about the fight against hunger in Arakan. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken a vow outside the agenda of Arakan, one of the world's oppressed geography, whose name has recently been called slaughter, persecution and exile. I salute your high council. A new hero, Arakan, who has been on display for a century and a half and a half, has changed his scene and decor, and is the lead character in the theatre of the atrocities that never changes. Although we've only just heard of it, from 1942 to today, there's been a human drama in Arakan. There, not only the Arab Muslims, but humanity is dying. Over the past 70 years, more than 500,000 Arahish Muslims have been slaughtered, while more than 1.5 million Arakan Muslims have been forced to flee from massacres and persecution and seek refuge in different countries. Precious lawmakers are a result of the equation, which has a paradigm, a balance of power and conflict of interest, that has been built on the international system, as has happened in Palestine, Bosnia, Somali, Syria and so on. The visit of US President Barack Obama to Myanmar did not stop the massacre. However, during a visit to economic and military agreements, the drama of the Rohingian Muslims has been expressed, and that is an unknown subject. The final act of the process, which began in 1942 with the massacre of 150,000 Arahyan Rohingya Muslims, began six months ago, and is still under way. Throughout the period from June 3rd until now, a massive genocide movement has been launched by Buddhist people in the region against the Arab Muslims. Even worse, this massacre is supported by government officials. The houses of the Arakans, whose only crime is not being of the Muslim and Burma dominant race, are being looted, raped by their women and their daughters, captured by an ambitious, fanatical Buddhist gangs, are being slaughtered and forced to leave their homes. Precious lawmakers, the interesting thing is that Buddhist priests, who were referred to as the world's pacifist, led this massacre. Over the past six months, more than 7,000 Arakan Muslims have been slaughtered, and more than 130,000 Muslims have been killed from their homes and homes. In the country where security forces have been involved in the initial massacre, Muslim people who have no security of life, property and honor are fleeing to the neighbouring country of Bangladesh, but the situation here is not particularly pleasant. The lucky ones, supposedly, are trying to survive in minimum-live refugee camps, under bad circumstances, while others are being sent back to their deaths by Bangladeshi authorities, who live on February 28th, with various excuses forwarded. Dear MPs have passed the human test in the world, Gaza, Somalia, Srebrenica, and Arakan, as in Srebrenica, and unfortunately they have not succeeded in it. The Western public, which has put the concepts of democracy, equality and freedom into its tongue, has not shown its sensitivity to the Arakan Muslims for the Buddhist Buddhist Aung San Suu Kyi of the Nobel Peace Prize, and has once again demonstrated its double standard, hypocrisy. Although this woman, considered the prime minister of the future, has to avoid questions about these massacres. The United Nations Organization, which is on the initiative of five permanent countries, based on the interests of victorious states that have been victorious from World War II, has once again confirmed its failure to achieve justice, as in other human crises. Dear lawmakers, in the face of all of this, I would like to point out that mankind has been left helpless and helpless, like an orphan child, who has lost his protector. As I end my words with these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Mush. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Mustafa Moroglu of İzmir MP who wants to talk about İzmir's problems. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our citizens living in İzmir are experiencing a great deal of problems that the previous authorities haven't been able to solve and you haven't been able to solve in ten years. I'm not trying to explain these problems, but my goal is not to give you too much damage to your power, not enough budget deficits, nor to ask for a solution to the problems that will increase the freedoms. We are always trying very hard to solve the problems of those who say "Izmir" and "Izmir" who love Izmir very quickly, especially the ministers and AKP MPs who love Izmir very much. I will talk about two small problems that can be solved by hand in hand with those who say "Izmir." One of these problems is that, apart from the jobs that our city's citizens have had to do to improve their daily lives, which our municipalities have had to do, which is to provide services, other than the jobs that fixed staff members have to do, we know, municipalities have to create services and serve the public through their own companies, and they get these services, but there are problems that when they're given these services, not to ensure that municipal services are better provided, but to prevent better services from being given. Our request is this: In such services, municipalities should be able to receive these services in areas where they can receive services from their own companies without being subject to the Public Contraction Act, because then every Christmas, we will be left unemployed today? I think that our workers will be able to provide a more comfortable service, especially in the purchase of services such as driving, and that our Izmirian citizens will not have to delay the purchase of these services. By making another change in the Public Contractor's Law, which you've changed over and over again, because municipal companies are already public companies, companies they've built. There are no profit-deposit accounts here, and since it's not done, we need to make sure that municipalities can get these services from their own companies without being subject to the Public Contraction Act. Another problem is our municipalities. In particular, you sent instructions to Republican People's Party and National Movement municipalities before this whole city law was passed, you sent instructions through the Ministry of Interior, and you said: "Travel the roads and sidewalks from the citizens." But we have an inequality: city councils are forced to take the money they've sent before, the money they've claimed. So I think we can settle this inequality by leaving it to the councils. I'm saying that we can meet these two demands with an arrangement that we can express in very short sentences, and we can all do it together. As I end my words, I would also like to remind you that January is full of killings that hurt us, that hurt our hearts. We lost leaders like Muharrem Aksoylar, Uğur Mumcular, Onat Kutlar, social democratist movement, social democratic party, Republican People's Party, Aydın Güven Gürkan, and Ismail Cem in January. But the day after tomorrow, January 19th, the 6th anniversary of the massacre of Hrant Dink. The most beautiful man in this land, and we want to live and die in this land, we want to be buried. The 6th year of the massacre of Hrant Dink. And after his murder, we politicians haven't been able to achieve the peace climate he misses and the climate of living together, and instead of questioning the killers behind his death... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have to question how we created a killer from a baby. We have not been able to fulfill the longing of Rakel Dink. In the 6th year of his murder, I believe that the rulers, ministers, and government officials in his commands were people who would at least stop rewarding him. My respects to the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0005par0034	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about municipal real estate. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0006par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I've been promised off-the-tops on municipal real estate. I salute the grand jury. The reason I took the stand on this issue is because some municipalities, especially municipalities, have a low population, have been leased into real estate. According to the fifth joke of Article 13 of the State Contracts Act, the leases are being made by the council of the municipalities. According to Law 5393, the lease period for the council's personal tenders is three years, and if the city council decides, it goes on for up to ten years. The Mestegrators move around, they get into trouble, they become commercially uncomfortable. You tell him to go out, Mehmet replaces Ahmet, Hasan replaces Mehmet. And in the small settlements, the problem is, he's walking around with gossip, and everybody's falling into each other. No matter what party the political party is part of, the locals, the tradesmen, they're falling into each other's hands. The municipalities, whose population is under a certain amount, should be given the opportunity to contract rents as easily as the Finance Ministry has set up a revaluement rate, and those who continue should be given the same opportunity. If management does not need it, rent must increase at a fixed rate each year. I'll make you an offer of law on this, and I'll make it necessary, and I'll present it to the High Council. In fact, the municipality, which was side by side with the ruling party, is living in the ruling municipality, which later led to the opposition. When we see the ruling municipality at the exercises, even in their tenders, there seems to be major problems, gossips, controversies. So, what are we supposed to do here, local politicians? We need to relax him. In that sense, there is a problem in our Denizli Province, Kale district. In fact, it's based on inspector reports, and it's in the same municipality where the ruling party's already carried out this business. So I think it's useful not to turn the citizens against each other, to break the harmony between them, to bring them closer together, to give these kinds of municipalities opportunities. As I just stated, what are we going to do in order to help them? We're going to find a solution. For what it's worth, I'm not saying this for any kind of abuse. It appeared in the press yesterday: What do we do with mosques in exchange for loans? We're handing it over to the Treasury. Some of the AKP's municipalities have done it. Maybe it's a necessity, but soon your religious work, your dianetin... what's going to happen? We'll all be on our way to nationalization of mosques. This is an event that the AKP, however, did not accept as a thought, did not desire such a thing. So what do we have to do? We need to figure this out. It says here: After the District ofÜscudar handed over four mosques to the treasury in exchange for its debt, it turned over six mosques, one health centre and one school in order to get rid of its debt. So what would it do to be exposed in public, to a humiliating set of statements in front of the community? He'll have prevented it. I wanted to make this very clear because it's a problem, and I know it's in a lot of municipalities. We've realized that in our time of appeals, and I've decided to address it in the High Council, the General Assembly. I'm taking this opportunity to pass it on to you. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0007par0044	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise our friends who are in the system one minute at a time. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0008par0049	Mr. President, thank you. Gaziantep farmers have a very serious problem, which is that they have a meter attached to water wells. The farmer is already troubled, using the world's most expensive diesel, using the world's most expensive electricity, using the world's most expensive fertilizer and seed. Nevertheless, Gaziantep farmers will be able to put a meter in the water they use from water wells to pay for the water above certain amounts of water. I don't believe that's fair. I also believe that the world does not suit a country with a 16th-largest economy. My respects.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0009par0052	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0010par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a subject in public about people who are living in retirement, and after the Constitutional Court called off their retirement age, their pensions grew from three to ten years. Now they're out of work, they can't get a pension, they can't do any work, our citizens are over 40. For example, Mesut Pehlivan of Ayvalık says: I am 46 years old now, I am unemployed, I have four years to retire, I can't get a pension, I can't do anything. What am I supposed to do, feed my children? We have an offer on the law. We ask the government's officials to listen to the problem of our citizens who live in retirement and to provide a solution to it.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0011par0058	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0012par0061	Mr. President, thank you. Now, Mr. President, this is the local television and radio business, which is the broadcaster's Supreme Council of Radio and Television again canceling the frequency allocations of the broadcasters so far, so I'm going to open a new tender, and there will be seven in each province. Now, isn't it a priority for the radio guys who've been broadcasting in the provinces for so many years? Even though these have done so for many years, we're going to open up to competition. Isn't it wrong to say, "We're going to give it to a higher company?" I wanted to announce it to the concerned ministers through you. I thank you for that.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0011par0063	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0013par0066	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, a fellow servant called and said that his nephew who was staying at the military branch in Hakkari Yüksekova, who had been staying in the military office in Hakkari Yüksekova, had not been provided with electricity and no human needs due to the burning of the military branch in May, but had been promised that this place would be fixed, and had not been met with any correction, and that in winter these days, without stoves, without any means, had served in the Army branch of Hakkari Yüksekova. Instead of sending TVs to Mr. Prime Minister Abdullah Ocalan, the needs of our military children must be met. I want to draw attention to this inhumane situation in the Hakkari Highova Military Department. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0014par0070	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0015par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP government has shared the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey with the terrorist Ocalan, a mass murderer, and has shared its sovereignty with the terrorist organisation. The AKP has reduced the government to a terrorist organisation by replacing the terrorist organisation as a state. The government lost its legitimacy while gaining legitimacy for the PKK. Ocalan has even expressed his opinion on who should write the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. The AKP government has humiliated the Turkish nation, the state of the Republic of Turkey and Turkish history. The second Habur expansion launched by the AKP (AKP) was also revealed in Diyarbakır with all the colors of treason. The funerals of three Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) members in Diyarbakır have been transformed into body displays, the terrorist organization has become a challenge to the state, the rags of PKK have been covered on funerals. Reports are coming that the security of the ceremony for the PKK's people is being provided by the BDP. Once again, I call on the authorities to stop making sense, to stop committing crimes against the state and the nation. At this rate...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0014par0076	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0016par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Product support has so far been supported within the framework of decisions made by county and county detection commissions, but it is said to be based on TİK data by the end of 2012. Although the amount of the detection commission conducted in 2012 was placed in the agricultural register system, applications from October to today have been evaluated through these data, so far it is said that it will be reduced to 420 kilograms in wheat support, which is 600 kilograms in black. In November, in January, in December, in January, they were paid to support the grain, and in October 2012, applications began to be received, but so far there have been no support payments. That's what's causing our farmers to suffer. I wanted to pass this on to people who are concerned about you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0017par0082	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0018par0085	Thank you, Mayor. TÜBITAK, who supports progress in science and technology and is tasked with developing strategies for this, has made a new decision, according to this decision, ▪ Man's Evolution, which is on the list of books on TBITAK, has taken the books on evolution and evolution off the list. First, those who want these books are called their own, and now they're off the list. Why is power afraid of the word "evolution" and debate? Why is he afraid of ruling brains? Does this decision suit the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency? WITH that understanding, how will this country move forward in science and technology? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0019par0088	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0020par0091	Mr. President is one of three women co-operatives in the Black Sea District of Karabörk Kuşakçı district of Giresun. In the process of establishing the co-op, the town's subsidiary has been 46 important. Twenty-three female members with green cards were given 46 milk cows out of two. A year's feeding has been promised that the vet's services will be free, that they will be supported by trucks and milk to be collected and sold, and that the price of cattle will be paid in five years without paying. As none of this has been done, our citizens, who are already green carded and unable to make a living, have become unable to take care of animals. Today, the state asks for 12 thousand liras for two cows, from cattle that don't cost two thousand liras in the market. Not only do our female citizens, who have paid for all the promised veterinary services in their pocket, but they are in the co-op for development and think that the state supports them, but they are financially bankrupt, through family problems, to the stage of divorce. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0019par0093	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0021par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: Even though building a hotel in our Gökceada is a decision to stop the execution, it appears that even now illegal construction is still under way, despite a decision to stop it on a 25,000-lead map in the status area. Will our Minister allow the illegal structure of this private person's hotel to be stopped, especially inside our Gökceada, an island of Turkey's pearl? Will our city carry out its decision to destroy? Is this going to be removed from the incentive application? Is our ministry still persistent in this change of 25,000? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0022par0099	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0023par0102	Mr. President, there's a large group of victims in Turkey who can't retire because of their age, even though they're paying their premium debt. Even though the Social Welfare Foundation helped needy people to survive their lives, these people earned retirement and became victims and needy because of their age. Will the government have any work to repair the victims of these masses? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0022par0104	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. The Minister asked for two minutes of his location. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0024par0108	Mr. President, my dear friends, I know what Mr. Sarıbaş, our Minister of Çanakkale, is asking, and I'm following closely. There is a decision on the matter that the construction process should be stopped. As soon as we have the verdict, all of our necessary units have been instructed to implement it, and we have new views from our Ministry on it. Unless the Judiciary and Protection Board allows that kind of structure to happen there, there's no way we can do any facilitating procedures. It's a special area as of nature, historically in the galaxy. And we are carefully doing our duty to preserve the exact nature of the green, blue, of this particular area. I'll buy it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We demand and demand the opening of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate and determine the reasons for the obstruction of the Turkish industry and the financial system and the measures that need to be taken." 1) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Lug]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[Kütahya]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] Due to the government's wrong economic vision and practices, major losses are taking place in the industrial sector, with many problems in accessing financial resources, followed by a series of bankruptcys. The AKP government, which surrounds Turkey, thinks the economic crisis, which shakes economic and social structure, will be overcome by packages that we have not seen positive impacts on the industry and on our fellow citizens, continues to make the same mistakes. In this scope, 2012 financial budget figures are not a promising situation for the real sector, both content and purpose. In this case, the Central Management Budget of 2012 shows no sign of support, encouragement and other needs for production and production. Because of the aftershocks in global economies, it is clear how regional economic actors have entered the process. At this point, both our country and the world's economic problems are in place to confirm this situation. Due to the ongoing economic crisis in the European Union countries and the mass riots in nearby geography today, our country is in great danger. Social and political problems due to the economic depression in the countries of the European Union, where exports and imports are the highest and the most foreign capital comes to our country, show that we need to be determined and determined not to be late for the problems in the real sector that govern our country's economy. The economic depression in Greece, which is facing bankruptcy with Italy, where the injustices in the revenue distribution invite social violence, are necessary to take macroeconomic measures quickly. Therefore, it must not be forgotten that if social and economic development, based on the basis of balanced production, is not provided with the support needed for the real sector, which is essential for social stability, we will travel as a country of social crises due to the periodic economic crisis in many countries. If today, because of economic problems, the future and continuity of the European Union are looked at as hopeless and negative, we as a country must first examine it and focus on it. Because there is no doubt that European unrest will affect Turkey's economy in a negative way, primarily through the recession of the real sector. So far, there has been no solution to the higher interest rates in the real economy and the issue of collateral in some sectors. Thus, the country's economy has been tried to manage a low currency with no structural measures, based on high interest and dependent on hot money. The diminishing investments, increasing domestic and foreign debt, poverty in which our citizen is living, and continuing unemployment are the most concrete example of the government's wrong policies. Because of the government's wrong approach to issues, such as unemployment in the real sector, which is due to bankruptcy and unemployment, not taking the necessary and adequate measures in time. Many problems have been caused to become permanent and chronic. When the government's budget of 2012 and external demand are added, there is no way to avoid serious problems in the real sector of our country in 2012. It is inevitable that structural and financial measures to support production so that our country can achieve sustainable growth and macroeconomic stability, to prevent problems that are taking place, quickly and without delay. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the need to open Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to ensure what can be done to protect and improve their identities, language, and culture, and to bring to the attention of their problems. Aside from the written sources of themselves, they live as a village called "Izyag-il Mıhalamiyya" (Mhalmi's villages), Sadırlı (Derizbina), Keffer Huvar, Söğlü (Kinderi), Süğlü (Apşe), Şenköy (Apşe) and Pathmaster (Kefer Illeplep) live as a busy village in the central district of Mardin, Ömerli, and Esteur. Mhalmies speak a language that can be called "Mallemice" mixed with Syrian, mainly in Arabic. There are four opinions about the origins of my molmis. 1) According to a brief paragraph of "Tur Abdin" in the Islamic encyclopedia, the Mhalmians are a hybrid group of separated Arabs and Kurds. 2) M. According to the second opinion of Ali Arikan and Cemil Salses in various writings and works, the Mhalmis are a community that has emerged as a result of the mix of Turks and Arabs. Because it is one of the first sources to be written in Turkish, although it is widely considered subjectively visible, it is common about the Mhalmis. 3) It is based on written and spoken sources, and when the Mhalmis were a Christian serbian community, Patriarch Ismail argued that in the 1600s, the vast majority of the population was converted to Islam as a result of the events of fasting, epidemics, pressures and metropolitan elections. Süryani Ancient Patriarch I. It is written in Arabic by Afrem Barsavmo and is one of the main sources in the history of the region, including Estel, Kefır Havra (Gelinkaya - Kefer Huvar), Deyr Izbıno (Sırlı - Derizabin) Kinderi (Sütlü), Apşe (Senköy), Kefır Shemğo (Kerşef-Budak), and many of the villages where there were a large number of villages and churches. 4) According to the fourth opinion of the Mhalmis, which was obtained in 2004 during the field study of ethnic groups in Midyat district, when they were Christians, as reported above, the Patrik Ismail and the Islamic conquests placed in the region and held authority under the influence of the Beni Hilal tribe, as well as a Muslim majority. The thesis states that not all of today's Mhalmis, but most of them are of Serbian origin. In light of the above explanations, rumors about the origins of the Mhalmites appear to be common. From Turkish origins to Kurdish origins, there are numerous claims that are not fundamentally aspirant as they are Arab, as well as Suryani-Arami. The definitions of the origins of the Mhalmis mean distortion of the reality of ethnity. These people have their own language, customs, and culture. The merkurite is uncomfortable with being used as a balance element under Arab or other identities, changing the names of settlements, legal recognition of their own identity and culture, and being protected by the state. In the land where they have lived for more than a thousand years, the possessions of many have been taken from them and fallen into the treasure. Most of them are not given deed to vineyards, gardens, or plantations. Most of the existing deeds are registered to others. The fact that their grandfather's land is registered in other people's names causes serious public tensions, conflicts. The Mhellemi Religions, Languages and Civilisation Dialogue Association, the only organisations founded in Turkey to promote, protect, and develop the Mhalmis' own identity, language and culture, are requested to be shut down by exposure to various pressures. Mhalmis, first of all, the removal of these pressures on their associations, the recognition, protection and development of their own identity and culture, the right to be granted the rights to benefit from visual newspapers, magazines, radios, TV and other media communications tools written in Mhallemic, the rights to be restored immediately without delay, and the wrong practices that may lead to conflicts in the deed and the cadastros. The Mhalmis believe that the state must make financial and legal arrangements to ensure their return to Turkey by giving its unidentified relatives, who are originally from Turkey and who live in exile in Syria, Iraq and Lebanon, immediately. It is important and necessary to establish a parliamentary research commission in order to ensure the state's return to Turkey by giving its undocumented relatives who live in exile their rights without identity, language and culture recognition, protection and development; the immediate restoration of wrong practices that could lead to conflicts and inspection of property and cadastros; and the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in order to ensure the state's rights to return to Turkey immediately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The spread of the Cults and congregations in Turkey and its view of it as an active force on and on the state, creates pressure to join or become a member of a community. In an effort to investigate the impact of cults and communities on society and politics, their goals, revenue resources, international connections, organisational patterns, and the consequences of the spread of cults and congregations in Turkey, we propose the opening of Parliament research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter. [[Erzincan]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 14) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] 20) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 23) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] In every part of Turkey, congregations and cults that are effective in everyday life and human relationships often operate through the foundations they build. Consolidated and politically involved congregations and cults are now at a point where they have reached the point of determining the governments that will come to power. After 1980, the state went to legal and social regulations for religion, which it considered an indispensable element of social life, while politicians co-operated with them according to the voting potential of cults and communities. If today's international connections, financial resources, and the incalculable mass that they've influenced, we can better understand the size and weight of the power struggle. Recently, we have been watching the recent press campaigns for congregation staffing in the government or for the rule of state in the congregations. Now it has come to such a stage that the state institutions have completed their tenure and the struggle to share public institutions amongst themselves has begun. Some cults and congregations who have broken off their relationship with the modern world are using religion for their own purposes and interests, providing all kinds of benefits to their supporters. You can't be the free politicians and individuals of a democratic country without getting rid of the cult-cam pressure that limits the free thinking and actions of individuals. For these reasons, a research commission is needed to investigate the objectives of the cults and congregations in Turkey, revenue resources, activities, international connections and the impacts they have on society. Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with Malatian MP Mahmut Mujahit Nutiklı and Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun, 3 MPs; the Electric Market Act and the Special Tax Act on Computational Law and the Charter's Charter for Changes in the Special Consumption Tax Act. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayydal's Law Proposal on Adding an Interim Article to the Military Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan and 34 MP's Law on Disciplinary Law. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Union's Integration Commission, Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission reports, which are ranked in the 6th place, as well as with the European Union's Integration Commission, Development, Development and Tourism Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Nature and the Environmental Commission Report, which is ranked in the 7th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Court of Law and Foreign Affairs Report, which is ranked 8th in line with the African Development Bank Foundation Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 349 rows. (x) 349 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. There's no demand for word on the whole bill on behalf of groups. In the name of individuals, Adam Dessert, Giresun MP. Dear Dessert, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, esteemed MPs, first of all, I salute you with respect and love. We have about 10 international contracts in front of us today. I wish these contracts to be good luck to our nation, to our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Dessert. The second word on his behalf belongs to Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0025par0292	Mr. President, I'm going to speak to the African Development Bank on behalf of myself about the law on ratification of the international agreement on Turkey's co-operation. I'd like to point out that the recent trips the Prime Minister made to Africa have been very positive on behalf of our country. I would also like to point out that at this time when the countries of the European Union are in economic distress, Turkey is a supporter of these trips, both in search of alternative markets and attracting the economy to another dynamic point. Africa is a very important region in the world with its mines and oil fields. From now on, I think he'll play a very important role in shaping the world. Thus, I find it appropriate for Turkey to join the Development Bank, which was established here with the African countries. The biggest problem in Africa is the problem in revenue distribution. In Africa, we see countries where there is usually no democracy, and in countries where there is no democracy, there are problems in revenue distribution. I'm 54 years old, and the only thing I've ever learned from all my experience in democracy is that democracy must really be the indispensable nation of a country. Where there's democracy, there's no problem with revenue distribution. What's the biggest problem in Turkey? It's an unfair distribution of income. Our government claims that the national income per capita in Turkey is $10,000. Velev, which may be true, there are various speculations about it. However, if you can't distribute this $10,000 on the ground equal to our nation, if you continue to be unfair in the revenue distribution, that $10,000 is like wealth in African countries. The wealth of a country is not measured in the wealth of a king. When kings are rich, if subjects are poor, that country is not a rich country, there is no democracy in that country. You see the distribution of income or the lack of democracy. No democracy, no income distribution. The government, which claims to internalise democracy in Turkey, views democracy as a concession to only the terrorist organisation. That's not democracy. Democracy means that people who are thinking about it aren't going to jail. Democracy is about paying maximum attention to human rights. If you ignore them, we're a democratic country, we'll never compromise democracy, and even our talks with the Imralı are a manifestation of this democracy, they'll only call you a government that cooperates with terrorists. It's not often taken into account that you're talking about democracy. Look, I just mentioned it, and I said, "The income distribution in Turkey is unfair." The country may be getting rich, but the king and his pride, like kings in that African country, are getting poorer. Five million, 265,000 people live on minimum wage in this country. 5 million 265,000 people live on $774. The poverty limit in Turkey is $2,400, and the hunger limit is $975. The hunger limit of a family of four is $975. You're forcing these people to live on a number that's under the hunger line at $774. Five million, 265 thousand, people trying to make a living at minimum wage, 20 million, people living below the poverty line. So if you're saying that we have $10,000 in gross income per million, I don't know where you put 20 million people. In a country where 20 million people are trying to make a living on minimum wage, it's hard to believe that you're going in front of people by flipping numbers like this. It's about these people, and it's not enough to just give away their bread, their beans, their rice, just to bring them to the end of the month. Being a developed country in the world doesn't just mean you have to eat. Man is not only a full, sleeping, breathing being, but also a social being. These people have no way of making any progress in their social life. You brought clothing freedom in middle school. Yesterday I stumbled across a high school exit. I wish you could see the state of those students. The jersey closes things up, makes the difference between the students. A tracksuit under the students who went out. He's wearing all kinds of colorful sweatpants he found at the market. The students are falling apart. On the other hand, the well-being student is dressing himself. You're sticking your nose in the class difference between that student and the other student. So you're doomed to live like this, but look, on the other hand, you're standing in front of the mirror every day thinking, "What am I going to wear today?" And I don't think it's affecting their psychology properly. I also think that this should be reconsidered. Perhaps it was a sincere and well-intentioned attempt to free clothes in middle school. I remember, in middle school, in elementary school; you wore a sweater, take it off. You tied the tie on your side, take off your hair. Of course, you shouldn't take your hair away from these dots and raise children like soldiers, but in return, I suggest you reconsider the freedom of clothing that makes a difference in a class, which is counterproductive to children's social development. Mr. President, valued members, there were three PKK terrorists' funerals in Diyarbakır today. I've written it somewhere else before. I told him, when I looked at the statements of the Deputy Prime Minister who had been in our country for about a week, I couldn't help but think about what some circles had written, what they had said: If three members of this Parliament had been killed by any terrorist organization, there wouldn't have been so much fuss in the country; I assure you, it wouldn't have been broken; it wouldn't have been broken, it wouldn't have been us who shot. His arrival in İstanbul was an incident, his departure to Diyarbakır was a separate incident, and his going from Diyarbakır to where he will be buried today is a separate incident. It's a very sad event, look. The police who pumped pepper spray on people who were involved with the October 29th ceremonies, who were no longer able to intervene in the group that hung the PKK flag at our friend's hospital today, who was part of your group. This is the government's failure where we come in on terrorism.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0026par0303	He turned himself in, turned himself in.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0025par0304	You're getting used to it, but don't think these people are getting used to it. He's not getting used to it, he's just watching what you do. We suggest that you take steps towards the future of this country, a little more rational, a little more devoid of emotion. This country belongs to all of us. If this country goes away, it's not just me who cries, it's not just me who hits my knees, and you all hit me, but you'll be able to stand up to a number of outside constraints. If you fail, we'll slowly have to watch the hanging PKK flag there. Didn't that burn you? I'm curious. I have a friend here who's a member of the Diyarbakır MP. I mean, how can government officials watch a PKK flag be raised from the head of Diyarbakır's Links Hospital? Aren't you all burned up? It must have burned.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0026par0306	If it burns, it'll do its job, which means it didn't.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0025par0307	I would like you to reconsider, please, that your actions under the name of "Adjective" have been of no use to the PKK since 99. My respects to all of you. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0027par0310	Mr Turkkan, thank you. Congressmans, there are no further requests on the entire bill. We have two friends in the system for questions and answers. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0028par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to express my reaction to a story I saw on the evening news. I have a photo of him that I can download from the Internet. The flag of the Swedish State was placed on the table with the Minister of the European Union, who attended a conference at the University of Stockholm of Sweden, and the flag of Sweden was placed on our flag as a size as well as on our flag. By ignoring this, I condemn Mr. Secretary who participated in this negotiation. I call upon this minister, who lacks national glory, to resign. Because of the Israeli Embassy's flag and seat ceremony to our ambassador, I invite public opinion to be sensitive about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0029par0317	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0030par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, how many MPs took this trip when Mr. Recep went on his last trip to Africa? Besides, how many of your own family members have been on this trip? I'd like their list now, if possible. I especially want to know how many of the MPs have attended. Ahmet Davutoglu also called all the envoys to Ankara. Where did he receive these ambassadors when he invited them to Ankara? In some places, we looked, his own children and grandchildren were brought on that trip. Where did this ambassador's gathering come from? How much money has been spent, and I want to know how many people have been involved in these trips from Ahmet Davutoglu's family.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0031par0322	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0032par0324	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Prime Minister is trying to open our borders and place all refugees from Syria at the furthest border, and no matter how much he comes, he accepts it as a humanitarian mission and says that they have been given about 500 million aid so far. Now, of course, it is our duty as human beings to take care of the human problems of people who are starving in our neighbors. But there was a flood in Balıkesir, on the island of Marmara. In that flood, all roads within the island of Marmara, including drinking water, need about $3 million of immediate money assistance, and this is the official, state-appointed figures. Now, while helping Syrian refugees on Hatay's border, why doesn't your government take a step forward to heal our own people in our own country? Aren't the people of this country your problem?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0031par0326	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0033par0328	Mr. Secretary, the Ministry of National Education has recognised a free pass on the dress code. It's an entirely pedagogic act of pleasure, without any further research. So if you're doing this, I propose to the government that you give 100 lira a month to elementary school students, 150 lira a month, and 200 lira a month's scholarship to high school students, so that these people don't get embarrassed among other young children, they don't get low on clothing, there's justice in that. That's my offer, and I'd like you to do as you're told.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0031par0329	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0034par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask the Minister a question about the current distress at many businesses in Anatolia. Propulsion Act 5084 ended on 31/12/2012, not extended. Upon the absence of this law, businesses in many parts of Asia Minor have been faced with closure. For example, a textile company called Canicas in Tokat, closed down its business in Istanbul, came to Tokat, employs about 750 workers in Tokat. With this law not extended, there is no difference between the investment of Istanbul and Tokat. Thus, all of the people there face the challenge of taking their investments from Asia Minor and moving them to larger cities. In this direction, our government is urgently expected to extend the Law No. 5084 again or establish a law in this direction. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0035par0334	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0036par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Belen had comments about an incident that took place abroad. To be honest, I didn't follow up on anything personally. Mr. Egemen Bagis has made statements on the matter, and our Minister will surely make the necessary response, the evaluation. I don't want to make any further comments on something I'm not fully aware of, but in general, of course, in all environments, our government always has the necessary attitude to represent our country, our flag, in the most respectable way. Mr. Young asked about some digits about the African trip. He's not in my hands right now, but we can get them out, the number of lawmakers, we'll take care of him. But I'd like to point out that the last global crisis has shown us that it is not possible to develop with an export structure based solely on the European market.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0037par0339	We don't want him. That's not what I asked. I asked about the congressman.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0036par0340	Market diversification is very important, for years in Africa, Britain, France, many countries have made very serious economic investments. China has recently entered Africa in a very serious way. We also have more assets in Africa with our embassies, commercial channels, civil society, various channels. Unlike other countries, we view Africa differently. We are approaching this framework, in which both Africa and our country will win. We open embassies, we tighten contacts, and that gives us huge benefits. One of the reasons we've been affected by the recent crisis is because we've diversified our markets. Recently, our exports to Africa have increased greatly.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0037par0342	Yeah, that's not what we're asking.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0036par0343	These contacts need to be concentrated, increased, and actually more of our deputies have to go there. These bonds shouldn't just be interstate ties, political personalities should go, traders should go, NGOs should go, so we can build a much stronger bond with these regions. Mr. Havutça compared the flood of Balıkesir to the refugees in Syria. I don't think such comparisons are appropriate. We can express separate problems, and if there is a problem in Balıkesir, we can express it in person and address it. But these aren't comparable problems with each other. On the one hand, a great state of Turkey must fulfil its historical responsibilities in Syria, which is in the process of historic transformation. This is what we're going to do in decades, centuries of history. On the other hand, if there's a problem in our country, we'll take good care of it. It's about Balıkesir, AFAD, I'm sure he's interested, but I'll also deliver this note to AFAD myself. It's better if we don't compare them to each other, it's a healthier approach. I don't think we should compete with each other, analyze each other's problems, and create the answers we need. Mr. Bulut raised a question about the Ministry of National Education, regarding the dress code. You know, we've been doing major reforms in national education lately. On one hand, we've increased the time, it's 12 years of mandatory education. And today, look, the United Nations has a human development index, the indicators of education that pull us down there. It's not a matter of the last decade, it's a matter of the last 50 years.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0038par0346	It'll come down even lower.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0036par0347	I'm afraid you'll appreciate that our population over the age of 25, has spent six-and-a-half years in knitting training, and that the population over the age of 25 is not getting enough of the knitting training, which governments are responsible for. Today, 12 years of mandatory education have arrived, and at the same time, we have created a more flexible system, a more liberal, more democratic system. As in all developed countries, we have to be more open to differences, to individualization, if we are to be an innovative society, to be a society where the differences are tolerated at a much younger age, from uniform logic to uniform logic. In doing so, we must, of course, observe social balances, not cover social balances with certain uniforms, but with stronger social policies, we must respond to these problems. As a matter of fact, it's clear where we've come from in social policy over the last ten years, the number of povertyes, the distribution of revenues. We're seeing serious improvements, improvements, but from now on, of course, we need to maintain our social policies more strongly, solve the problem at its source, rather than at its source. I now believe that Turkey has reached this stage. Mr. Right raised a question about 5084. It was, you know, an investment incentive, and it was expired. We've extended this to reduce the effects of the global crisis. So more than normal time, our investors took advantage of these legislation, incentives in exchange for investments. That hasn't been removed from where we came in today. And now that it's out of normal extended time, it's out of effect. Instead, we've announced a new incentive system, you know, with sectoral, regional dimensions. Now, many of our investors -- we're hearing these demands in the areas that we're going to -- want to keep this going, but they're actually asking for more business-era support, so they're not asking for a new investment, they're asking for an incentive, they're asking for a reduction in business costs. That's the bottom line. In these matters, we are constantly conducting a study of reducing the burden of employment on our businesses. And when we have a field, we will certainly have an effort to evaluate it. No matter how much we reduce the burdens on our businesses in general on employment, it will undoubtedly be positive for both competitiveness and employment. Especially on the Economic Co-ordinating Board platform. When it matures, we'll be able to share it with the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0039par0353	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to the articles. AFRICA ACTION BANK AGREEMENT PROGRAMS OF THE BLOOD TO FIND THE SLEEPING It was fitting that we attend the African Development Bank Association Agreement, dated 1- (1) 4/8/63. Proposal on matter? No.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0360	I do, Mr. President, on behalf of myself.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0039par0361	Get into the system next time.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0362	Sir, we're entering the system. I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0039par0363	I don't. I don't want to. Come in now. Please enter the system, Mr. Young. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0365	No, I want a promise. I said a promise. I mean, you don't want to...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0039par0366	I say there isn't. You raise your hand, you say there is. That's not the system.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0367	Mr. President, I told you before, they're closed...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0039par0369	Please enter the system, I promise. This is the way. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0371	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. President, for once, you're going to ask, "Does anyone want a word on Made?" After that, or you'll pass. This is the way this Assembly governs, but the AKP is being instructed by its members of the group. Sir, if Kamer's on the Young General Assembly, they've filled out their personal conversations, give them to them. Here we see, he's just leaving, finishing ten minutes of conversation in one second; that's not gonna happen. Now, dear lawmakers, look, we're asking questions here. Look at this government! Where are these guys? Where are they? Where are they traveling, where are they traveling, where are they enjoying themselves? One minister is coming, and what happens if he gets sick all of a sudden? What would happen if your coven left after that? What kind of a thing is that? Is there such an illegitimate government? What kind of government would be so disrespectful to the House? Now, I ask the Minister, where is Ahmet Davutoglu now? This is where we discuss international agreements. The Foreign Minister deals with international agreements. Where is the Secretary of State now? I don't know where he's enjoying himself, who he's walking with, what frills he's spinning. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0041par0374	Watch your language! Watch your language!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0375	Let him sit here and answer the questions we're asking him. If the deputy isn't answering questions here, why is the government sitting here? Why is the government sitting here, why does it sit? Tell me about it. Tell me one thing, why is this government sitting here? Well, don't let him sit down. Either you're the one who brought this on yourself. You're the ones who turned this coven into an illegitimate state. The hundreds of questions we're asking here are all unanswered. I'm asking you now, name the MPs who took the trip to Africa. The person here says: "Sir, the trip to Africa is useful." I didn't say it was useful to you, it was useless. You can go wherever you want, go to hell if you want. I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0042par0378	Watch it, talk decently! Speak up!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0379	But, the point is, who did you bring with you when you went to hell? Let's find out. How much did you pay? Look, there's a Article 82 of the Constitution. Have you not sworn allegiance to the Constitution? According to Article 82, any MP must be allowed to serve by the Council of Ministers. Look, how many months has he been here or this semester, and once so many ministers in the government, the MPs who escort the Prime Minister go, eat, drink, collect their tuitions, then come back here and ask permission according to Article 82 of the Constitution in the Turkish Grand National Assembly? Since he didn't buy it, all those expenses are irregular, those expenses should be embezzled. But there's no law left in Turkey because of you, you lift your finger at everything. You can't lift a finger like that; those fingers don't clean up all kinds of mess, friends, they don't clean up all kinds of illegalities, they don't clean up all kinds of irregularities. So, we're saying, over and over again, that you've served in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the moral principles, and we've come out, and we've judged the tasks that you've done here? No. You don't take us for a fortress, you violate the Constitution, you violate the law, you don't take the House for a fortress. You send a toy person here, you make them sit in the order of the government...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0043par0383	Speak up!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0384	After that, you don't answer the questions we ask. So why are we here? Tell me why we're here.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0043par0385	And what adjective do you speak like that? How can you call the minister of state a toy?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0386	Now, the other day, Ahmet Davutoglu had gathered all the ambassadors to Turkey.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0043par0387	Mr. President, why do you allow this kind of talk? He says, "Toy," he says.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0388	Next thing we know, she's gone somewhere, her kids are out there, her grandkids are out there. Is this a government farm?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0043par0389	He needs to speak in a clean language. Is that language a pure language?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0390	Is this a government farm? After that, there's no need to collect those ambassadors here, no need to make all that expenses. You determine the state's foreign policy, then you make a statement. I don't need all this expenses. You didn't leave the government behind anyway. Look, just now, you know, you first announced a budget deficit, you said 14 quadrillion liras, and now it's up to 28 quadrillion. Now Minister of Finance Mehmet Bey has come out and said, "Sir, we have spent five quadrillion liras on the Syrians." Well, in this country, when the children of this country, when the students couldn't find a home, when they needed bread... well, you see, it was in the papers yesterday, one person kills three children, kills his wife. What brings these people to this psychology? It's unemployment, it's poverty. It's what's causing these people... that you've brought the people of your hometown so poor, so deprived that the man kills three of your children. The human being knows how desperate this is, how painful it is. When they need to be helped, Erdogan has been instructed by the United States, he says, "Go to Syria and make war." What kind of a state would that be, friends? A state like this wouldn't live.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0044par0393	Mr. Young, may I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0394	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0044par0395	Mr. Young, I believe there's been a slip of the tongue, as if a toy had been placed in place of the government.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0396	No, it's not a toy, it's a person.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0044par0397	No, you said toy, so please make your peace.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0045par0398	Everything suits him!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0040par0399	No, it's not a toy, it's a person.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0046par0400	Please fix it, Mr. President. Let him correct his statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0047par0401	He's sorry, he's sorry!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0048par0402	No, Mr. Young, please compromise, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0049par0403	Now, lawmakers, if this AKP is a serious party, if that serious party wants to give this Parliament a serious status, then it's important that the Secretary of State, in order of ministers, answer the questions of the MPs, seriously, that's what I mean. The person sitting in the line of ministers isn't answering the questions of the MPs, that's what I used, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0050par0404	Take that back. No matter what happens, you can't call the minister of state a toy, take it back!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0051par0405	Everything suits you!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0050par0406	You're not ashamed of your attitude every time, are you? You're not ashamed of your attitude every time. You go from place to place, laughing.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0052par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0053par0408	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0054par0411	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're really listening to an example. I leave it to the entire House, including a party, not just a certain party, to speak in such an ugly, vulgar language. (AK PARTY) This is not just an element that has cast a shadow on himself, but on the dignity, on the dignity of this entire House, on the dignity of the entire political institution. I invite him to apologize and not use any more language. And I'm in no position to go down to his level and respond in detail. I'm going to leave this low-grade style to your appreciation over and over again in front of the whole nation.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0053par0413	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0055par0414	Look, if the AKP brings in the Council of Ministers at the level of this House, we're not getting any answers to any of the questions we're asking. Since we didn't answer the question we asked, I meant the person sitting there, sitting on the Minister's bench, was clueless, and I didn't say anything else.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0053par0415	It's okay, he's on the books. [[Continue]] Congressmans, there are no more words on Article 1. No questions asked. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) was a capital commitment to the African Development Bank of the Republic of Turkey, and the payments under that commitment would not exceed 67,770,000 Private Rights (SDR). The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase the amount to five times as much when necessary. There's no demand for word on matter. We don't have friends in the system for questions and answers. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions asked. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions asked. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll start the open vote and give you a minute.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0056par0442	I want the names of the compass senders read, whether they're here or not.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0053par0444	Our friends whose name I've read, please sign. Ayşe Türkmenoğlu, Konya? Here. Mahmoud Kazar, Şanlıurfa? Here. Tülin Erkal Kara? Here. Fatma Salman? Here. Fehmi Cube? Here. Zülfü Demirkle? Here. Omar Faruk Öz, Malatya? Ali Turan, Sivas? Gürsoy Erol? Here. Mehmet Sarı, Gaziantep? Here. Dear lawmakers, I present the outcome of the open vote on whether we are eligible to participate in the African Development Bank Foundation Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used: 194 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya That's how the bill was adopted and legalized. We will now begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 9th place, where we are eligible to join the African Development Fund Association Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 350 rows. Mr. Mehmet Günal is the MP of Antalya who has asked for a word on the bill. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0057par0470	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, we've just passed the law on membership in the African Development Bank, and now we're talking about the law on joining the African Development Fund Foundation Agreement. As the National Movement Party, I'm starting by saying that we find the bill positive and that it's the right activity from the start, but since our friends are here to check in, they're probably not doing much, so we're going to talk about it. Mr. President, if you can provide a calm, I can't hear myself, so if friends are going to chat, we'll call again. I can't hear myself, guys.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0058par0476	Dear friends, if we could stop humming a little longer, we might be able to listen to the preacher. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0057par0478	I'm saying positive things right now, so don't worry, I just thought it'd be a good idea for you to hear them. Of course, our membership in the African Development Bank and the African Development Fund was an important step in Turkey, even delayed, and has been waiting with some other agreements since we were accepted into membership in 2008. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 350 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. We're a party that sees foreign policy as a national issue, first my country and nation, then my party, then I have understanding. For him, it is important for both economic and commercial and political relations that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a member of international institutions in Africa and in all emerging markets and in Asia. For him, we also see this as an important opportunity here, and we view this step as an important step towards Africa as a part of our multi-directional foreign policy. I, myself, studied it in Tunisia about a month ago, as a member of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assemblysi Turkish Group, it was something I joined because it was an economic panel, and we didn't have any other friends. There, we met with the Speaker, the Vice President, and the Secretary of State. There, as a Turkish MP, I experienced the attention that was shown to the person of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as a parliamentary assamble. The Minister and the Speaker have a serious interest in Turkey, as well as the Vice President. We think it'll be more useful when we develop these relationships. And especially in this environment, where the volume of commerce in the world is shrinking, we've discussed with both our ambassador and our TİKA representatives and our businessmen that it's very important to have a say in this reconstruction process. And I find that really important in terms of closing the foreign trade deficit, but to make it permanent, it has to be permanent there. Of course, besides that, we need to go to other markets. The way to shut down the recession in Europe is also to Asia, not just Africa and the Balkans, with common historical ties to ourselves, but also the Turkish states. We've been through this a lot, dear friends, and we've been neglecting it a little bit. The Minister is here, and he knows it. In the past, when we were in foreign economic relations, we spoke together, and I spoke to him during the budget talks, and I spoke to him about the Ministry of Development budget at the General Assembly. Because, since it's our relevant organization, I'd like to remind the Economic Co-operation Agency once again of the importance of these relationships, dear friends. There, we have all our Turkish republics, and there's one thing that's built there, but Iran, because some other countries are members, because of the lack of communication, unfortunately, we haven't been able to get the Economic Co-operation Agency to the level we want because we need to develop those relationships. It's not just today. Look, Ataturk says in 1933, we have relatives and brothers there. Today the Soviet Union is our friend, our ally. We need that friendship, but no one can predict what will happen tomorrow today. The nations he holds firmly in his hand today can escape his grasp, and the world can reach a new balance, he says. So he's saying we should develop business relations, cultural relations with our brothers. But we haven't developed anything since the 1990s. I also think that we should do this opportunity for a study that will open the way for a customs union with the Turkish states, with preferential trade agreements, with bilateral agreements, to pave the way for the Turkish economic community. Because, indeed, we have friends who are experts in those matters, who know the work that was done before, especially Mr. Secretary. Here are friends outside Turkish states, only Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, plus the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus without a member. So when we develop this place, in the future, we're going to have a customs union like this, for this kind of economic union, we're going to have to bring all the countries closer together, as systems, as financial systems, as operations in the economy. And when we can run the preferential trade system, we'll be laying the foundation for this fundamental economic integration. Thus, as we find them to be positive, we also need to turn our eyes toward Asia, even a little bit further. Otherwise, we don't have a chance to do any work here. What do we all say? In 2023, we call it Turkey, the leading country. We're going further, we call it Turkey, the superpower in 2053. It's the 600th anniversary of the conquest. What do we have to do for him? With a new understanding here, let's develop our relations with existing troops, with organizations, with international institutions, develop our trade relations, and use this geostrategic importance to become a leading country in the region, to improve our relationship with countries that have political, commercial, economic, cultural ties to them from the past to now on. But we also need to develop their integration into this international trade system, the international financial system, and their relations with Turkey by taking care of these brothers, our kinsmen. If we can do these things, as Ataturk said in 1933, with a progressive policy, with a vision, if we can do this opening in Africa -- which we've already started in the past -- then we've already done this with the Turkish states -- that's when we're going to be the leading country -- we've already signed a deal with other regions, other countries of Asia, and we've talked to you here in the last year about the Asian Development Bank. So, here we are -- as Turkey between the East and the West, or between Europe and Asia -- as it's always been said -- not just a bridge, but a synthesized country, which has flown from the depths of history and found its summit in the Ottomans, a country of ancient tradition that has established the world. So if we're able to re-explor Turkish-Islam civilization as a field of influence, as an example of how we've been able to spread it around the world when we've all held on to that national, spiritual power of ours in the past, in the past, in the past, in terms of art, in medicine, in terms of science, in terms of science, in terms of science, in terms of science, in terms of science, in science, in terms of technicality, in terms of technicality, we can still be able to grow them together, and have a new word in the world. So, in such an environment, if we cooperate with Africa, Asia, with our own descendants, you know, in a classical sense, not the conflict of civilizations, as Huntington said, but rather the point where cultures meet, we are a country that can make a synth with this geostrategic position between the East and the West. And if we do that, of course, to do that, to do that, you know, with long-term strategies, with our relations with these countries, with the African Development Bank and the African Development Fund that we're now accepting, and if we can spread this multi-ethnic foreign policy to the world market, then we'll really move forward to being the leading country. Hopefully, if we can achieve integration with these Turkish states, if we complete the expansion of Asia, we'll be the leading country in our region in both economic and political terms, and in 2053, we'll be one of the number-one states of the world. As the National Movement Party, he always declares to you that we see foreign policy as a national policy, that we will be behind you in the work on these issues, but that we will do our opposition duty in places that are missing, and that the Agreement should be good luck and good luck, and that the leader country wishes for further work on its way to Turkey.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0059par0491	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of him, Mr. Tülay Kaynarca...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0060par0494	Mr. President, I have received a promise from the esteemed lawmakers regarding Bill 350. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers were founded on October 29, 1972 by the Agreement of the Foundation, and launched in 1974 by the African Development Fund. This administration in central Tunisia is also run by the Bank of Development of Africa, and I would like to stress that its main goal is to provide grants and loans and reduce the poverty of regional member states, and I wish that this agreement, as well as this bill, be good by law, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0059par0497	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. No one wants word on the whole bill. We don't have a friend who hacks into the system for questions and answers. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Ensarioğlu has a one-minute statement from Mr. Ensarioğlu's place before he reads the 1st article, and I'd like to hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0061par0505	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just made an accusation that the funerals in Diyarbakır have been taken to an AK PARTI MP's hospital where the KCK flag has been raised. It's a lie that's been coming back on Twitter since yesterday, and I've actually answered it on Twitter. That hospital has nothing to do with the AK PARTY MPs from a distance, so if they actually go to Google, they'll find out who it belongs to. The hospital has nothing to do with the AK PARTY and the AK PARTY MPs. There was also an accusation that the flag hadn't been lowered. That's where the security forces did what they had to do. For your information. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0062par0508	Thank you, Mr. Ensarioğlu.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0063par0509	Mr. President, let me give you a minute to answer.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0062par0510	Okay, but he didn't mention your name, so he made a statement.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0063par0511	I'd like to give you a better answer.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0062par0512	Here, you mend your seat.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0063par0514	Mr. President, that information was a statement I made today on both websites and social media. Mr. Galip Ensarioğlu has stated that he is not Sir. I apologize to them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0062par0516	Thank you very much. [[Continue]] I'm reading article one: AFRICA CONTINUES TO CONTINUE THE CONTRACTION OF AFRICATION Joining the African Development Fund Association Agreement, dated 1- (1) 29/11/1972, was approved as part of Article 58's first joke of Article 43 and Article 48 of the Article 48 as part of the first joke. No one wants to talk about matter. No one's in the system for a QA. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the first article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) was the capital commitment of the Republic of Turkey to the African Development Fund (SDR) and the payment of this commitment would not exceed its right to attract 40,693,468 specials (SDR). The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase the amount to five times as much when necessary. There's no demand for word on matter. There's no demand for an answer. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. There's no request for a word or an answer on the matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No one wants to talk about matter. No questions asked. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the clear vote of the Dair Law Bill, that we are eligible to participate in the African Development Fund Association Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used: 194 [[x]] Özlem Yemisçi Mine Leuk White That way the bill is legalized. We will now begin talks with Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 10th, in accordance with the Council of Guvernors' Decision on Resolving the Central Agreement of the International Financing Institution. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 355 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants to speak on the whole bill. Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0064par0564	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a vow to present the views of the National Party of Action on the Milletist Action Group on the Perpetual Legislature Bill, that it is appropriate to ratify the Council of Guvernors' Decision on the Resolving of International Financing Foundation Act 355 rows. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. The bill states that the IFC (IFC) was founded in 1956, with 183 members, with $2.4 billion in capital, all of which was paid capital. In addition, the government provides financing for the developing private sector, which is difficult from the market, with loans and capital involvement in the developing sector without a warranty being sought. The IFC's total commitment is $42.8 billion. 6 per cent of this is intended for Turkish companies of $2.5 billion. In 2011, IFC used $12 billion in loans. The loan Turkey used for $467m. Turkey's credit share is 3.8 per cent. With the World Bank Group, reforms are being made for the representation and participation of developing countries in the transition process. There's a $200 million selective capital increase in this frame. Our country's host signed this on October 19, 2010, and it's already done by law. It entered into force on June 27, 2012, awaiting our approval from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in terms of internal law. We agree... [[Noises]] (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 355 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0065par0573	Yes, Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0064par0574	I can't speak because of the noise.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0065par0575	The usual! Guys, if we could just be a little quieter, we could at least listen to the preacher. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0066par0578	Thank you, Mr. President. It is important to ensure potential growth and speed up the structural reform process for economic stability. For a growth forecast of 2.9 per cent and 4 per cent for 2012 and 2013, Turkey remains stable, respectively 2.9 per cent and 4 per cent, while the 2014 growth forecast is reduced from 5.5 per cent to 4.5 per cent. Cari was the influence of policy decisions made in 2011, but the fact that the current deficit is still largely funded by short-term capital inputs increases the vulnerability of the process. The more you take over the government, the more you accept it, the more positive it becomes for you. You need a cautious optimism. This period should be perceived as a period of extreme optimism, focused on facts, inside and out, where everything must be prepared for anything. You're behind in technology and social media, bringing up what's good for you, bringing up what's bad for you, not bringing up what's bad for you, not what's bad for you, but the censorship mechanisms. A guide is needed to understand AKP executives. They've had press consultants do this before, but now you need a spokesman to fill that gap. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, Turkey is trying to integrate today with its external policies, with its world economy and trade. Turkey also favours almost all international contracts. The important thing is that Turkey's representation of both regional and global international organisations is effectively and efficiently. Today, no country in the world has followed a more troubled policy than Turkey. Because the AKP governments have begun to flow out of Turkey's basic principle of peace in Turkey's homeland, which is the principle of peace. However, the government has recently made Turkey's position a real challenge. This government unfortunately, let alone multilateral diplomacy, is unable to travel in bilateral diplomacy in negotiations in international organisations. We've faced dozens of strategic agreements with any country today, Iraq in the square, Syria in the square. Diplomacy can't be run without allies, diplomacy can't be run without plans, without programs, without strategy. But today we see that Turkey has no allies in the region, nor does its meaningful plan, program and strategy. Where there's no diplomacy, there's no energy policy, there's no economic politics. The strategic depth has become a strategic giant pit. Hopefully, in this pit, we won't have any trouble in this darkness. Just as a sustainable, stable, stable economy was not built inside, there was no sustainable and sound foreign policy out there. This government maintains its so-called political stability inside with an oligarchy mindset. This oligarchy approach prevents the country from producing a permanent and solid policy inside and out. In the world economy, politics and trade, Turkey's stance should be appreciated and supported by the countries we are allied with. At one time we were taking money from the IMF, and now we're paying the IMF. You're insisting that Turkey's debt has increased from 320 billion dollars to $600 billion. There's a lack of discipline in public spending. On the one hand, you come to the nation with taxes and raises to cover the deficit; on the other hand, because of your support for the allies, you empty the vault of the state because of your endless love of staffing; you flee from the control of the court, and you take advantage of the immunity armor. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the global economic crisis has really been more effective in developed economies like the United States and the European Union today. While the global economic crisis shakes up developed countries, it also presents an opportunity for developing countries. As a matter of fact, projections of the future indicate that these countries will become important players in the global economy because of their large populations, increased trade volumes and developing economies, and Turkey is among them. Turkey has enough economic potential and human capital to turn this crisis into opportunity, just as long as we channel these resources and resources into the right places, as long as we establish the basis for healthy and sustainable economic growth. According to the IMF, Turkey, which we once boasted of as the 16th and the 17th, is expected to be the 18th place today, while Turkey will be the 12th place in 2050, rising to six places and becoming the 12th. Last year's exports, represented at 135 billion dollars, were ranked the 32nd place in the world, but imports were ranked the 20th. This year, 152 billion dollars were exported. Have we changed the order of exports around the world? Did we make it upstairs? Despite the decline in imports, will our top-level position in the world imports be able to land further below? Cari, what about our ranking in the world out in the open? Turkey, unfortunately, still has not laid the foundation for a healthy and sustainable economic growth. That's why most of the so-called successes in the economy aren't virtually permanent. In exports, whether you capture 150 billion dollars or 500 billion dollars, these achievements are nothing more than digits, a mirage, unless the current is a permanent and qualified recovery. Now, there's something I'd like to express about these. The World Bank Director made a statement about Turkey last day. I've already stated: this potential growth rate needs to be achieved and the structural reform process for economic stability needs to be accelerated. That's what the ministers say, but it's not happening. Turkey, with 2.9 per cent and 4% respectively for 2012 and 2013, remains stable. You perceive growth as 8.5 in 2011, I think, about 2.5 to 3 percent in 2012. As a minister in charge of development, Mr. Secretary, it must be difficult for you to describe a period of negative 4, a period of 8-9 growth as a sustainable and stable growth. I'd like to make a point here. Since the AKP came to power, savings in Turkey have dropped from 24 per cent to 13 per cent, to 12 per cent. What did the private cut do? It became unsustainable, despite the abundance of liquidity and the positive impact of economic outlook in the world's economy during the first five years of AKP power, Turkey's economy has performed a process-open growth performance, which is unsolicited and unsolicited. The global damage created by the debt crisis in the world economy accompanied by the wrong policies in the country, and Turkey's acceleration of growth has been lost, and the average growth average of nearly half of the first half of the AKP period has been reduced. After the stagnation that began in 2008 and the shrinking in 2009, it emerged with a possible low-velocity increase in 2012, when high growth speeds that could have been achieved on the basis and created the current deficit were temporary. Our country was again confronted by the AKP government with an inadequate growth performance following the rate of rapid growth. Moreover, our people feel the decline in their growth performance in 2012 more deeply. The total domestic demand has declined for the first time since the 2009 crisis, as a result of consumption and investment decline. In the economic growth of around 3%, domestic consumption has narrowed down as much as during the economic crisis, and economic growth in a sense has not been reflected in the public's buying power, and the public's expendable income has not been significantly increased at this time. In the first nine months of 2012, industrial production really increased by a fairly modest rate of 3%. When you consider these increases, it is clear that the tribulation has begun. Trends that take place in trust indexes of the real sector's production, employment, order and investment prospects for the next period also show that the country will actually be behind the 3.2-leaded growth goal set later. Moreover, despite the expected decline in the demand element, one of the most important factors affecting investments, the growth scenario, based on the prediction that there will be a serious increase in investments, has also made the inconsistencies very clear and clear internally. When you look at the growth of 2011, the lower 3 per cent shows that AKP's battery and breath have run out, following a policy of economic growth based on hot money, which is unable to carry out structural reforms in the other part of the year. The key requirement for sustainable growth and self-sustainable economics is that domestic savings are at an investment level. This is the only requirement for Turkey to be a strong, independent economy among the major economies. Unfortunately, our savings continued to decline during the AKP administration. Where did our domestic savings come from in 2002? 13 percent are down to its level. That's probably a record for a historical setback. The private sector, which is the key force for the country's development, has begun to give a significant amount of investment-cost deficit, and is dependent on external savings by entrepreneurs who can't afford to finance their investments. In this structure, however, we have paid our debts to you, and even though you say "IMF," you have laid down debt on the private sector. All the measures taken -- on public finances -- despite the palatial configurations that concern one year, public savings have only increased in the financial area of decline in the interest rate of inflation, and have not implemented an effective spending policy, so there has been no distance in reducing the investment-sharuf deficit in the public sector. Public balances have not been cut off from sustainability, the growth of the indirect tax-based structure, the excessive dependency and high informality of the budget. The declines in tax revenues during the decline of the growth rate in 2012 have been met with high public increases, reducing the buying power of small and fixed-income workers. In the ten-year period of power, the AKP government, as well as Cari's deficit of savings, has found no solution to this problem, fault for energy. In 2012, the increase in savings was intended to shorten the consumption of citizens rather than the increase in income. The government's policies to increase savings in implementing structural measures have significantly reduced private consumption and private investment. In this way, the growth of 2012, which he predicted was 4% during the previous Central Future Program, has been reduced to 3%. Thus, after the growth of 8.5 per cent in 2011, Turkey has become one of the highest-rated countries in developing countries at the rate of growth compared to the previous year. As such, the government does not use public investments efficiently in industrialisation and providing technological transformation. In this period, public investments have not been cared for, and public investments have been seen to be reduced compared to 2002 in domestic revenues. And even more dire is that the government's projections for the next three years have shown that there is no improvement in this area. In 2023, the AKP government, which has been in power alone for ten years, continued its claim to be the world's top 10 largest economies, but could not even reflect its non-sustaining mid-term goals. The AKP, which saved its high and sustainable growth speeds for the next OVP, predicted three years to reach the country's potential growth rate. With an average growth of over 8 per cent after 2015, it is not possible to achieve $25,000 per million per cent in 2023, but given the past performance of the AKP government, it is clear how difficult it is to achieve this goal, but the State Institute of Statistics can help AKP with a new national income revision. From this point of view, if Turkey intends to be among the world's top 10 economies in 2023, it must perform a growth performance -- what should it do? Indeed, if Turkey wants to achieve a good growth rate, a high growth rate, it has to go out in public with very good goals, convincing goals -- if it wants to achieve a good growth rate. I repeat that we support this bill, that it's already in practice, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0067par0599	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. First speaker on behalf of his subjects, Mr. Recep Special, Isparta MP.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0068par0602	Mr. President, I have made a solemn commitment to the Court of Guvernors' Decision, which is appropriate, that the Council of Guvernors shall be ratified, in accordance with the Convention of International Finance, 355 rows. I salute you all. This international agreement, which was brought in, with the contract, is changing the capital structure and voting structure of this International Funding Agency. In the sense that this institution, which provides financing for developing countries, performs better functions, the countries that sided with it have signed the contract. I say, hopefully, it will be brought to developing countries with these contracts, with these arrangements, with the quickest steps to improve them. I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0069par0607	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP... Mr. Can, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0070par0611	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Bill 355 is an international contract. International contracts are contractual agreements between governments and institutions. Of course, these contracts, signed for the interests of every country, are coming to the council of that country and our country, and after being transferred, the Foreign Affairs Commission is working on this. The commission is here, in its assessment, although it has the power to change these agreements, usually these agreements are not being changed, nor are there any contributions being made -- in that sense, in our country's interest -- but here, if not in our country's interest, the commission, our deputies, are holding it together with members because international contracts are not in accordance with the law and the violation of the Constitution. Here, under the agreement signed in 1956, the Council of Ministers gave this authority. Here, the change is being made over the rate of increase. Hopefully, this is a contract that will benefit our country, our nation. If the Council of Parliament appreciates it, it'll be appropriate. I express our opinion that it is appropriate, and I salute you again, with all due respect, in the hope that it will be good.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0071par0616	Thank you, Mr. Can. There's no further demands on the entire bill. We don't have a friend who hacks into the system for questions and answers. I submit to your votes that the bill shall be passed on to the articles of the bill, those who accept... those who refuse... the amendments of the bill are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE MILITARY FINANSAN PRODUCTION TO THE CONTINUE OF THE CONTINUE OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE COMMISSION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNICATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE FINANISTANCE OF THE FINANS The decision of the Council of Guvernors on tasting the Central Agreement of the International Funding Agency 1- (1) has been approved. Proposal on Article 1? No.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0072par0624	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0073par0625	I have a request, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0071par0626	Here you go, young man. I'm gonna need you to get into the system next time.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0628	Sir...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0071par0629	It'll be easier if you get into the system.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0630	It's not the system, it's the word and the writing, it's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0071par0631	You know, hacking into the system replaces words and writing.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0632	Sir, it has nothing to do with the system. Anyway, it would be better if you read the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0071par0633	You have to read it, not me.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0634	Mr. President, you see, you see, the people, the AKP MPs, they're coming out just so I don't talk for ten minutes. This law is very good. They say it's good, and the public sees it. Now, actually, after I want to talk, I get so many opportunities that you guys don't understand so much. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, as I was just speaking, the person who sat here during the government said to me: "He spoke ill.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0075par0637	Everyone did.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0638	Look, if you weren't my next-door city, I'd kick your ass. You need to eat a better oven to see if what I'm talking about is level or low. Because I respect the people of Bingol so much, I don't care much about that word. Members of parliament, look, it is Recep Tayyip Erdogan who has made the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a toy. Look at the order of government, the order of ministers; is this the behaviour of a government who looks at this parliament seriously, who takes it seriously, who really respects this Parliament? It's not. So here's the guy sitting in line for the Council of Ministers who doesn't know the subject, who doesn't answer the questions, when we're talking about Hanya, he's called Iconia, and then he's the government. Look, we discussed a law on energy here yesterday. Of course, he wasn't giving me a TV at the time. Now, Taner Star to Iraq...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0076par0641	What's this about? Get to the point!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0077par0642	That was yesterday.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0643	Did the man who just spoke here talk about the matter?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0076par0644	Get to the point, get to the point! Tell me what it's about!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0645	Taner Yildiz went to Erbil, where his plane was to go to Baghdad.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0076par0646	Get to the point!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0647	Look, they didn't take the Minister of the Republic of Turkey to Iraq, and then he came to Kayseri.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0076par0648	What's this about? What's the number of rows?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0074par0649	I said, "You're the Minister, here's your... lf you don't understand, don't talk." It's a matter of State.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0076par0650	Look at the level!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0078par0651	Is your mind melting into everything? CAMER TEENAGON (Secondly) Regarding the status of the state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0076par0653	What's this about? Get to the point, get to the point!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0078par0654	Mr. President, he's not talking about anything, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0079par0655	Mr. President, will you shut him up? No, sir, I'm the State Department, so they don't make him talk, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0080par0656	Please, Mr. Young, please don't speak ill of us, and I'll shut them up.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0079par0657	Sir, I'm talking about the matter.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0080par0658	Please don't provoke me.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0079par0659	But they turn it on themselves.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0080par0660	Be careful with the words you use.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0081par0661	Get to the point.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0080par0662	Look, you're still talking about Mr. Secretary, you're not talking about him.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0081par0663	What substance? Get to the point.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0082par0664	If someone tells you you're a jerk...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0080par0665	Please, you use a clean language and I'll shut them up.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0082par0666	Now, look, I mean, still with the minister... Mr. President, I'm asking you, if someone tells you you're a jerk, do you take him for a compliment?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0080par0668	But you've talked before. Please...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0082par0669	Please, look, you've made our turn. Look, this is an international agreement.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0083par0672	Africa is about Africa, get to the point.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0084par0673	Friends, please, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0082par0674	The international agreement examines the state's foreign policy. So... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Why are you jumping so high now?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0084par0677	Guys, please...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0085par0678	Mr. President, let's get to the point.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0082par0679	I'm telling you what I think here now. For God's sake! The friend who just spoke spoke for 20 minutes, you didn't speak. Now, I asked Taner Star: Why did you go to Erbil? Why didn't you land your plane? It is the greatest insult to the state of the Republic of Turkey to not land the plane of the Republic of Turkey. If you tolerate every insult, if you tolerate every insult to this government, then what respect will I have for you, my friend? For him, there is no respect for a government that does not protect the reputation of my state, which does not protect the reputation of Parliament. Look, that's... now that we're out, you don't even want to make me talk for five minutes here. Yesterday, we made an energy law here. Last year, you raised 32 per cent electricity in electricity, followed by 14.5 per cent of TETAS, which is the company that sells electricity over the year, but not to the user, but to the company, to the company.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0086par0682	That was yesterday.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0087par0683	Come to this day.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0082par0684	He raised the price in electricity, increased the profit to 100 percent, but on the other hand, Taner Star canceled a tender for a distribution company that was given to distributors for $1 billion 165 million two years ago, and brought it in for $546 million. And who is the reason for that? Why don't they explain it here? Why are you covering up all this corruption here? Guys, the other day, I read again: "Toki brings, sells a piece of land for $9 billion to the Town Hall, and he brings it back a year later, gives it to 98 million. He brings it in, gives it to his followers for 500 million. In a country where there's been so many robberies, in the government, in the House, we won't say any of this, and then you'll be screaming in there. So your consciences... they brought you here to cover up corruption, robberies... and your fingers... are up here to cover up these corruptions, these thefts. What kind of conscience is that? We came here after that...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0088par0687	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0082par0688	...when we come to talk, you start screaming. That won't happen, sir!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0088par0690	Look at you, look at you!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0089par0691	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0090par0692	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0089par0693	Mr. Gardendoor, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0090par0694	I want word to speak, there's teasing.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0089par0695	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, please...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0090par0700	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0091par0701	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0092par0702	Mr. President, you didn't ask why.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0091par0703	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0092par0704	Without giving him a reason...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0093par0705	Sir, you sit down. Look, you have a group of vice presidents, a group of vice presidents who have asked for your word. Mr. Oğan, I mean...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0094par0708	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0095par0709	Guys...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0093par0710	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0095par0711	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0096par0712	Sir, but it's important...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0095par0713	I beg you to be patient with your listening, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0096par0714	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0715	Wait a minute... I promised, I'll give you my word, just a second. I'll give you two minutes, one second, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0098par0718	Dear friends, sometimes people...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0099par0719	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Group Deputy...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0720	Just a second... I gave my word, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0098par0721	Please respect Mr. Akif, I've made a promise and I'm speaking.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0722	Mr. Hamzacebi, now, if you'll excuse me, I promised. Sit down, I'll listen to you later.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0100par0723	Sir, there's a reason I'm getting up right now. Whenever I get up from here and ask for a word of taunting, Mr. Gardendoor is strongly objecting to my speech. Now, sir, you promised him, even though he didn't want a word because of the bullying. I wonder why you promised.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0725	What do you mean he doesn't want to talk?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0101par0726	Mr. Akif, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0727	He got up and wanted a word. What do you mean he doesn't want to talk?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0101par0728	Deputy Director of the Group, Deputy Director of the Group, I suggest you be kind.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0729	He got up and asked for a word, Mr. Hamzacebi, don't do the same thing.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0102par0731	I'm going to ask for a promise.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0732	Please, have a seat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0103par0734	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0104par0735	Mr. President, he needs to start over.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0097par0736	Please...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0103par0737	My dear friends, there are moments when you don't want to have those moments. When you're unhappy, it's when you're in the middle. I'm having a moment like that right now. I had to answer a person I didn't want to answer. I don't want to answer, because if I do, it means that I don't respect the people that I really need to answer. Why am I answering? To declare it. We all know that Kamer, who was just talking here, always comes in here and disturbs the peace of this House, acts disrespectfully, does politics on gossip, plays with honor, plays with our dignity, and it becomes untenable to us. I hereby declare you known, and return to you everything you have told us. Yes, you are! Yes, you're disrespectful! Yes, you're an insulting person, and you don't fit this bench! I'll tell you again and again, we'll tell you. Don't think we're taking the fort. I'm just saying what you're saying once more, and I repeat, you're a disrespectful and despicable person. Please come out! Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0105par0740	What do you mean, get out? Is that a thing? Well, bring the police, then. What do you mean, get out?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0106par0741	Mr. Hamzacebi, please. Please, without further ado, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0107par0744	Who is it? Someone's giving me a hard time.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0106par0745	No, no. No one's talking. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0107par0748	Mr. President, Mr. Kamer Young will, of course, come out here and use his right from the Civil Code, due to the earlier sentences, but my earlier objection was: I think that the Speaker of Parliament must make a promise to him when the members of the group demand that they do not show any material; I argue that he should stand up here and speak. I've said this many times on this bench, but in the watches of Mr. Gardenscapli, in a way that I can't describe to him, he has made a meaningless appeal to my demands of words, in a meaningless way.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0108par0749	It doesn't make sense to you. It means a lot to us.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0107par0750	▪ What article did you give it according to? Mr. President, I can't... I just wanted to remind him of that. Mr. Gardendoor said, "I just want a word." He didn't want to be bullied because he didn't want to be bullied. Mr. Kamer, in the earlier speech of the Young One... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Listen, dear friends. You're not listening. I'm not talking about the previous conversation. His speech on the stand earlier was a criticism speech. Before that, he used an unfortunate word. Against that word, Mr. Secretary gave a rather heavy response. We left him there, we left him there. Mr. Kamer Young just left, spoke, said something else. Now Mr. Bahçakılı wanted to respond to Mr. Kamer Young. Those sentences he used, the words, they weren't good. It did not suit the atmosphere of the House in this session today. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0109par0755	Thank you, Mr...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0110par0756	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0111par0757	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0110par0758	Mr. Group Vice President said it was pointless for me to speak, so I'd like to respond, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0112par0759	Well... please, don't make it a second thing, in a minute...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0110par0762	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'm not going to defend myself. You and I will decide whether my speech makes sense or makes sense. I don't understand why another group vice president would make such an assessment. Why can't I understand? Before Mr. Group Vice President calls my speech meaningful or meaningless, if there's at least a minimum relationship with other members of the group, which is appropriate for a group of vice presidents, then we won't have to give him that kind of definition, and he won't feel the need to do it. I'm only asking you to establish a social relationship with the minimum respect for the work of this House. Beyond that, I have the authority to describe the adjective meaning of your conversations under the discipline that I've taken to myself. I also want to tell you that if you say that Kamer Young is not insulting, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, I am telling you that lawmakers of your group are lawmakers who put corruption on their conscience. Please decide that. I'm telling you this here: the MPs in the CHP Group have put their consciences at ease with corruption. Is it an insult or not? Make up your mind.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0113par0766	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0114par0767	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0113par0768	There's a very clear taunt, sir, and I want you to promise me that. He made a statement accusing us of corruption.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0115par0769	I asked a question. Because Kamer Young asked us this question, and we answered it, and he protected it. So I asked him the same question, with the language of the young man. I made an irony, meaning he had to answer.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0114par0770	Here you go. In a minute, you'll be...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0116par0773	Look, it's not working. I didn't even answer you. I was going to tell you, but I felt the need to come up here because you teased our group.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0117par0774	I didn't tease you, I asked you a question.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0116par0775	Your party, your government, is so intertwined that the word "corruption" is not a word you can use.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0118par0776	Get out of here! Get out of here! Look what he's done!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0116par0777	Your government has made corruption a way of life.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0119par0778	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0116par0779	You're a party that feeds on corruption, a government.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0120par0780	That's for people to decide, people!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0116par0781	You answer them. Look, the Lighthouse case, the first trial in Istanbul, has just been held. You have a government that walks at the speed of a turtle, that shares the corruption of a century, and it's not working for him. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0121par0784	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0122par0785	Mr. President, we're not fighting or fighting here. I would suggest to Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, that we are not children, that we should not use this microphone as a defeat. I'm returning the exact words they made on this microphone to themselves. We're white, I don't know theirs.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0121par0787	Thank you. Your words have been taken.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0123par0788	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0121par0789	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0123par0790	The Gardendoorman just said to me: "He is a poor man, he does not suit this bench. I want to talk about bullying here. It's heavier than that... sir, he's using a very heavy word.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0124par0791	He keeps telling us the same thing, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0121par0792	Mr. Young, you've said the same thing, but please come in and I won't go any further. Tell me what you have to say in a minute. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Guys, calm down. Please, don't make me pick on you again.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0125par0798	Now, Mr. President, you give him a minute, you give him two minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0121par0799	I gave them a minute.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0125par0800	I mean, no.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0121par0801	You said an explanation. A word...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0125par0802	Now, the gardener just said: I'm very restless here. Of course he'll be restless. When I speak of your corruption, your plunder, you get restless.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0126par0803	Do you have a document?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0125par0804	Secondly, I'm a seven-time congressman in a county like Tunceli. So I'm the best fit on this bench.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0127par0806	Come on, guys.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0125par0807	Come on, whoever's got the power inside you...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0127par0808	Guys, come on.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0125par0809	...walk amongst the people in battle. Who has a reputation in public, one. Two: You are such a party... that our President-General said to Erdoğan with a very noble and noble attitude: "Yahu, if you take care of terror, I'll give you a loan." He understood that money. I'm as rich as Karun, I don't need your money, I don't need your credit, I don't need your credit."
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0127par0812	Now, have mercy!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0125par0813	That's your understanding. You're pushing the hand you've been offered to help solve the country's problems so backwards. I don't know what else to tell you. Of course, that's where the president's trying to keep me from talking. That's not the way to do it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0127par0817	We didn't make any effort, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0128par0818	Bravo! Bravo! You look good in CHP! Bravo! Bravo, Kamer Young! You look good in Congress!
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0127par0824	Congressmans, the words on Article 1 have been completed, no questions answered. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions, no answers. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I submit to the open vote of the Court of Ministers of the Council of Guvernors for the ratification of the Central Agreement of the International Financing Institution: ▪ Number of votes used: 211 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill has been adopted and legalized. In the previous open vote, lawmakers announced the outcome in the open vote of Bill 350, with 1 abstention. It's not an abstention of one vote, it's invalid, we're correcting it. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. For your information. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 11th place in the 2000th rank, where we are in line with the Preparing, Intervention and Co-operation Protocol on the Exposure With Historical Dangerous and Harmable Matters. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with 55 rows. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Reşat Right, MP of Tokat, who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0129par0859	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the Law bill and the Foreign Commission Report that we are eligible to participate in the Anti-Transgression, Intervention and Co-operation Protocol of the 2000 Historical and Harmful Matters Protocol. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I remember our police officer Genghis Engizek, who was killed in front of Mardin Hospital at around 7:00 p.m. last night. I ask for God's mercy, my condolences to his family. My condolences to the Turkish nation. I strongly condemn the PKK terror organization. Three PKK terrorist organization militants have combed through this heroic officer of ours, our heroic officer standing guard in front of the hospital's emergency room, and they've been martyred, and I strongly inform them. Congressmans, the rapidly increasing world population, unscheduled industrialisation and unsanitary urbanization, nuclear trials, regional wars, efficiency use of agricultural medicines, artificial fertilizers and increasing, detergent, are increasingly causing environmental problems to emerge as a result of environmental pollution. The natural result is that the contaminated air, water, and soil have reached the extent that will negatively affect the life of the living. In addition to pollution of air and land, dangerous and harmful substances also bring many environmental problems into the river, lakes, and seas. Ships are used in the seas, especially in oil transport. Thousands of tons of oil products are being poured into the sea as a result of shipwrecks, causing massive contamination. Therefore, carrying oil through pipelines should be supported throughout the world, not by tankers. The approach to maintaining environmental and ecological balance in the face of serious environmental problems that threaten our living areas must become more and more important every day. Today, 85 percent of our land is in danger of erosion, 54 percent of our forests. Problems such as climate change, pollution of water resources and desertification of soil show the urgency of implementing this approach. As an important dimension of our natural habitats, our forests and land have suffered significant damage as well as the effects of industrialization, as well as water, wind, and other natural factors. While unplanned industrialization is the main factor in the emergence of these losses, the other and perhaps most important reason is the destruction of forests, a true nature fighter. (x) 55 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Congressmans, dangerous waste is also poured into streams, lakes and seas. The waste thrown into the sea and streams is not only causing the fish to die, but causing great damage to the human body through water used in drinking and irrigation. In our country today, many industrial companies don't have waste treatment facilities, and there are times when they don't run facilities because of costs. For example, in the Valley of Greenyrmach, we occasionally encounter a large number of fish deaths in the river crossing. In addition, the soil is seen to be blackened by irrigation, and the creatures are destroyed. Even though we've brought these things up over and over again, I'm afraid they haven't reached the conclusion, and we're running into the same painting over and over again. However, our research has found that some factories along the river have not run waste treatment facilities from time to time or even dumped waste into the river. It is known that there are yeast factories in the Valley of Greenery. Although it has been seen that the dumping of Mayan factories there has been a very serious challenge, it is interesting that the measures are not taken. The Ministry of Environment must be very careful and fully control these events. Contaminated environmental contamination requires severe punishments, which must be carried out. Today, in our country, HES is a fashion called hydropower plants on small-scale streams. We see the establishment of HESEs that hit almost every mile of every stream. For example, Erzincan from Amasya, we find HES plants at every mile in the Valley of Greenermak, reaching toward the Silver House. The establishment of so many plants brings with it many problems. The river is almost completely destroyed. Riverwater is in the canals, people's water is in the hands of the private sector. We don't have much to say to big dams, hydropower plants. But how can the poor farmer, the peasant, water his field, use the water that destroys the region's microclim effect, which will be sold with money in the years to come? There's a huge opposition to small - scale HES (e.g., farmers' organisations) and the people, especially, and people don't want them. As a result, environmental problems generally destroy the natural nature of the environment in which humans live. This destruction is faster in areas where life is denser and slower in areas of life and settlement. This corrupted natural life has a negative effect on the lives of all living creatures on the environment. The most important reasons for environmental pollution can be listed as: rapid population growth, unplanned urbanization, unplanned industrialization, excessive use of natural resources. The urban environmental problem, which we will consider at the beginning of environmental problems, arises as a result of the housing and housing problem, which is essential to human needs, being solved through squatting and concreteization. So in many parts of Anatolia, in Tokat, in Sivas, in Yozgat, people migrate to great cities, leaving their villages or regions. There's a great migration. Especially in Anatolia, people who are interested in agriculture give up agriculture, so they go to big cities, and in those big cities, they face a lot of problems as a result of wrong urbanization, unplanned urbanization. So, one of the major causes of that pollution is that this immigration problem must be resolved, but it's interesting that the migration is increasing, increasing, and the villages are empty every day. In our country, especially in large cities, air pollution has grown to large proportions due to poor fuel use. In recent years, the prevalence of natural gas use has resulted in declines in air pollution, but especially in industrial pollution. However, in many towns and cities there is poor coal and air pollution. The use of inferior coal must be prevented and those areas must be protected. There must be urgent measures. The lack of organised industrial areas, which are organized and have all kinds of infrastructure, is causing a large share of industry in environmental problems. The use of irregular and excessive drugs in agricultural areas is causing soil pollution problems to arise. Land pollution must be dealt with as an environmental problem, and in this way, some measures must be addressed immediately. The number of dangerous waste produced in Turkey is uncertain and there is no study of the nature of chemicals and waste produced and used in industry. Inventory work must be done. In recent years, however, documents have been created, but they are very inadequate. Today, however, there are many devices in our country that are not used in every household - television, refrigerator, computer, cell phone, or electricity. And every house has dozens of expired batteries. As the Ministry of Environment, they must be collected and protected from harmful influences. In addition, many machines and tools that have not been used in many of the small industrial and organised industries have been left unguarded in nature. By the effects of rain and snow, nature is polluting itself, polluting itself. The Ministry of Environment must find an emergency solution to this, at least that which is not used must be collected and transferred to various places or transferred. Members of parliament, water supply has also been dwindling, and 20 years ago, 4,000 cubic metres per person fell, while 1,400 cubic metres of water fell today. Turkey has begun to take its place permanently in poor countries. In this sense and also in the water, urgent measures must be taken and carried out. Biodiversity in our country is threatened by soil decay in various ways and the beginning of natural resources. The protected area has only a 1% ratio to all areas, which we have to say is very few. As a result of erosion, 500 million tons of fertile land per year is lost. Each year, 80-100,000 acres of forest burn down, while 57,000 acres of forest are also destroyed because of fields and settlements. An active environmental control system must be created. Future generations must be brought up with good environmental training. In order to resolve environmental problems, the number of NGOs must be increased, civil society organisations and public organisations must conduct joint work. This is especially important today when global warming has increased, especially in what we call greenhouse gases. Very serious measures must also be taken regarding greenhouse gases. After all, there's a lot of words to be said about the environment, but I'd like to finish my words here. Any investment in the environment concerns the future of our nation, our country, our country. I wish for a healthy day in the hope of a environmentally sensitive society, and I hope that this law will be good.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0130par0879	Thank you very much, Mr. Right. Members of parliament, on behalf of their members, Bkent Turan, İstanbul MP. Mr. Turan... No. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP... I don't have that either. Since there are no further demands, we have two friends who have entered the system for questions and answers. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0131par0885	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we understand your sensitivity and kindness towards Syrian asylum seekers. Do you intend to show this sensitive attitude for our own citizens? Look, do you know that the vehicles of hundreds of our citizens, especially in different cities and near the border, have been stolen and taken to Syria by these Syrian dissidents, their doors ripped off, their seats ripped off, and their seats used in the war? News has been broadcast on TV for days, and our citizens have suffered a serious loss in this sense. Unfortunately, because the borders have been turned upside down, such difficulties are still going on, and every day but every day, dozens of our citizens complain about it, their vehicles are stolen, their vehicles are taken to Syria, and these vehicles are clearly detected in Syria. How do you plan to proceed with this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0132par0889	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0133par0891	Mr. President, citizens who reside in Gölbaşı district Eymir TOKI residences have been able to go to work in Kızılay or Ulus district at once every day using EGO's buses, while these buses have been removed by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's decree dated December 10, 2012 and have been implemented by a metrobus. These metrobuses are gathering in certain places, stopping at very distant distances, preventing people from going to Kızılay or Nation at once, and our citizens living in Lakehead Eymir TOKI housing are able to get to Kızılay or Ulus. Thus, our people have suffered a serious loss in a large population of TOKI dwellings. It's very important, it's a delicate issue, and our people are showing a great impression. We demand that you warn the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor about this, and that the victims be resolved.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0132par0892	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0134par0894	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the fact that some lawmakers are not in the room asking for a word on behalf of their own shows us that there is a purpose to shut down the line of conversation. I don't think that's very ethical. I offer it with respect.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0135par0897	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0136par0899	Mr. President, thank you. So, yesterday, a police officer was on guard at Mardin province and died of an outside attack. Today in lice, a soldier was killed by another police raid. I call them God rest their souls. So I expect the government to be a little more interested in these matters, and I offer respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0137par0902	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0138par0904	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, after the 2002 elections, a research commission was set up by the Turkish Grand National Assembly to investigate pollution in the Ergene basin. This research commission came in, conducted investigations in the Thracian region, and as far as I know, it prepared the report and submitted it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What measures do your government intend to take regarding pollution in the Thrace basin, and what measures have you taken so far? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0139par0907	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0140par0909	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish our martyrs, for this occasion, God's mercy, for all our martyrs, for their relatives, for our nation's patience, for our nation's sake. All of this, of course, is the same pain we all have in common. Hopefully, these are the processes that we shouldn't be dealing with in the future, where we have to work together to do so. On the one hand, our security forces will make every effort to do so, and as the government, we are making every effort we can. These are, of course, the common pains of all of us, as I say. Mr. Eryılmaz had a question that he had brought up some incidents of peace due to Syrian refugees. Now, we need to clearly separate the situation in Syria, the situation in Syria, and the problems caused by some of the refugees who did wrong here.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0141par0913	There's no objection to that.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0140par0914	We, as a country, will continue to give our Syrian brothers all kinds of support, all kinds of help, but just as we approach those who have done wrong among our own citizens, those who have committed crimes, if we have to approach them, we must no doubt take all measures against those who have committed crimes among the refugees. We can't have a different point of view, but again, this is a historical process. In this process, our solidarity with the Syrian people, our making every sacrifice to these problems, in the future, hopefully, will strengthen the unity and brotherhood of these people in a much stronger way.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0141par0915	You need to stop our citizens from being victimized, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0140par0916	Because of the individuals who have infiltrated, entered, or wronged those refugees, we can't expect to have a negative view of the refugees, as the fleas did not burn the quilt.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0141par0917	200 vehicles have been stolen and no control at the border. You need to take precautions on that.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0140par0918	Against that, of course, our security forces, our management of the property there, are certainly considering the necessary measures. It's a question about the teenage basin. We have a really important basin in the Thracian region. It's a very dense area of industrialization, so it's a dense area of pollution. We've been working as governments on this for a long time. As a matter of fact, you know, we've come up with a new action plan, provided that we take on a lot of environmental investments that local governments actually need to do as governments. He's been in our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and now we're conducting these studies within our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. We strive to create environmentally appropriate conditions in that region, especially with elements such as the construction of decontamination facilities, the more effective control of water poured into the basin, and the reform work of the OSB. On the other hand, we've announced a program called SUKAP. We're giving 50 percent grants to poor municipalities, if less than 25,000 people, and the rest in the form of affordable loans, and we're trying to create a better environmental standard in this region with programs like this. Here, I would like to stress in particular that our government is very sensitive and that the central administration is working towards this region beyond its normal duties, and that there is support. Mr. Gök has expressed a problem with the EGO, the municipality, the local administration. Sure, traffic's a big deal. As the Central Government, we gave serious support to the subways in Ankara, you know. 2.6 billion, if I remember correctly, we support subway investments from central administration, and our investments continue. And the subway is also an app for relaxing traffic. If there's been some kind of glitch in it, I can pass it on to local authorities like you. Of course, since I don't have the specifics yet, I don't think it's appropriate for me to make a final assessment right now. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0142par0923	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0143par0925	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Mr. Refik Eryılmaz is speaking to the attention of your government. As a Hatayli, as a member of parliament, there is the Vice Prime Minister here, as Minister, you are present and we offer a point to our House. After what really happened in Syria, our borders have turned to stone, not under control. Many vehicles are being taken to Syria, where stolen vehicles across Turkey are being torn apart. Make a precautionary measure of it. The second issue is that oil from Syria has reached the extreme stage of animal trafficking because the borders cannot be controlled again. The manufacturer of Hatay, Adana, Mersin, is deeply troubled in this sense. It's a case. We demand that you take precautions. If not, I agree with what Mr. Eroglu said to express a problem to you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0144par0928	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0145par0930	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's the Plain of the Heart in Balıkesir. This is really an important plain in Turkey that grows the very famous products of Turkey with its agricultural potential. It is known as Balıkesir, a province that feeds Balıkesir, which is grown by rice and is in a sense fed by Balıkesir, and Balıkesir is known as our county that feeds Turkey. Now, although the Plain of the Heart is a natural conservation area, there are such dangerous and toxic wastes of the Hearted Tea, that every time we go there, our citizens tell us that the fish are dead, even the turtles are dying, that our peasants are watering the region, that our peasants are suffering from skin cancer and other things. I've expressed it here many times, this suffering, this suffering of our citizens. Is your government considering taking precautions on this matter? There's no more territory left.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0146par0934	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0147par0936	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, right now they're in the provinces doing their legislatures, their programs. But as this program is being done, one thing in particular is that we see more and more and more investments in places where the AKP is voting, and more foster children are being treated as other places. There really needs to be a study on this, one. Second: I'm also the supervisor of the Silver House. We're getting reports there that a gold company has ripped out the graveyards and forced people to move them and not carry them. I'd like you to do a study on that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0148par0940	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Sky, come again.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0149par0942	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to bring up a bus problem again. Ankara is important because it's a city we live in. We have over 10,000 citizens living in the Lakehead residences that I just mentioned, and they're very victimized. Another problem occurred the other day. EGO buses travel between Ankara Esenboğa Airport and Kızılay and ASTI, and while it is possible to move it to $3.5 lira, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality privatised the line the previous day and handed it over to its own company Belkofor ten years. Belko will hand it over to another company with a tender or another savings. So, Mr. Melih, I understand the duration of the mission, but we can't possibly understand the logic of the privatisation of this transport between Esenboğa Airport and Esenboğa Airport for a ten-year period without knowing who's going to be there until the elections a year later. It's a short period... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you intend to warn the mayor about this?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0150par0946	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0151par0948	Mr. President, we have a limit of over 900 kilometers -- as you know -- regarding Syrian lawmakers. We're making every effort to protect our borders, border security, but in the long run, we need more modern systems that are facing border security, and we need the Ministry of National Defense, and we have long-standing studies in our Ministry of Interior. There are some studies we call integrated Border Management. There is the use of different technologies; hopefully in the middle, in the long term, there will be different technologies. But right now, of course, we're doing everything we can, but no matter what you do, it's possible that in such an extraordinary situation, there's an unwanted set of events happening. It's our job to minimize it, minimize it, and of course I agree with your advice. On the other hand, it's about Balıkesir Tea, which, of course, has to analyze each environmental problem within itself, analyze its resources. Normally, many of these environmental problems are issues that require the investment of our local governments, which require intervention. As I've just stated, we've done a very important work in what we call SDUPAP. In fact, this program may not be well-known, in a sense, in a way the municipality is the local government version. For the past three years, we've transferred about 500 million from our budget to the County Bank of Turkey's $1.5 billion in the last three years. With its own source, the Bank of Province has been able to get rid of it, and it supports our limited municipalities in the form of grants. In terms of the limit of debt, we also support municipal investments, regardless of those limits. Around here, we need to create solutions, especially with projects that local governments, of course, will develop. We, the central administration, provide these supports when we have no mission. Mr. Light had a question about private management investments. We've put private government shares, you know, on the condition of population and level of development after the reforms we've done with these local governments. Thus, we allocate resources to our relatively backward regions based on objective criteria, based on population and level of development. There, there is no special practice for any private administration, and from our tax revenues, they get their share of our private administrations, according to these criteria. If I remember correctly, the area is a criteria for private administrations. We collect this with a set of criteria, including population, level of development and area. Of course, economically more developed areas have additional resources, perhaps a difference from there. But for the first time in this period, we brought growth as an element. This wasn't there before, it was only done by the population. We have added a positive, plus a value to the relatively underdeveloped areas, by bringing in the criteria for improvement and linking part of the share to that criteria. Mr. Gök asked about the EGO again, about the local government. Of course, there's no way we can direct local parliaments and local presidents on these matters. Local governments have an autonomy for such services. I suppose you'll respect that autonomy. Right or wrong, I'm not arguing with him. They make and execute their own decisions within the framework of their own duties and powers made by law. If they're wrong, the citizen sees it, gives it the right answer, appreciates it if they're doing it right. Now, I can't comment on the details -- like I said -- on decisions I don't know -- but I think if you pass these problems on to the local executives, parliaments, as you've told me, they'll probably make detailed assessments of their best technical staff. Here, of course, you appreciate that a minister should not have a duty in this sense to the presidents or to the Parliament. We have to respect the autonomy of local governments in this sense, the autonomy of service. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0152par0958	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sour wanted a word. We have one minute, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0153par0961	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary -- in fact, it's not his responsibility, but -- I felt the need to ask for information on behalf of the government. There was a Mehmetçik School opened six or seven years ago in Mesudiye district of the army. Thanks to that school, about 50 percent of the children who graduated from Mesudiye County, who graduated from high school, had the chance to study at the university. It's closed this year. There's a great deal of disappointment in the region. We don't know what his motive is, and we don't know if it's based on a reasonable reason. I wonder if Mr. Secretary could enlighten us on behalf of the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0154par0964	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Minister, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0155par0966	It's very, very specific, but I don't have any information at the moment. So, I don't want to comment too much, but I got a note of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0154par0968	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, now the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. 2000 ACTIVITY TO COMPLAY WITH DANGEROUS ADVENTURES, CONTINUES TO CONTINUE OUR CONTROCTION AND PROTOCTION TO CONTROCITION It is fitting that we join the Intervention and Co-operation Protocol for Precaution Against Dangerous and Harmful Matters. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytug Thrower. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0156par0977	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, it's a very good deal that we've been eligible to participate in the Preparation, Intervention and Co-operation Protocol with Dangerous and Harmful Matters. So we signed this, and we didn't have any opposition to the commission. Knowing this agreement, I'll try to explain to you how you contaminated Mersin with dangerous and harmful materials and how the people of Mersin attacked you. Dear friends, I say from here that the AKP government has a grudge against Mersin, as if it had completely ignored Mersin. Let me briefly explain why: There is a story of a nuclear plant being built in the settlement of Akkuyu, west of Mersin. This story of nuclear power plant construction dates back 35 years. All the governments, right governments, left governments who have been coming for thirty-five years have stepped back, realizing that the people who live here do not want this nuclear power plant. The AKP government, however, seems very determined to build a nuclear plant for Akkuyu, which is almost a piece of heaven in order to punish Mersin. He made his deals, looks like he did the groundwork. All the people who live there know that the ground isn't suitable, and they say that the money that's going to be spent here is going to be a lot more than that. Now, in the west, we have a beach town called Kazanlı, which is east of Mersin, east of Mersin. In Kazanlı, the AKP soon decided to build a sulfuric acid factory. Look, my friends, Kazanlı is a coastal town, where people live and live on fishing and agriculture. If you try to build a sulfuric acid factory here, if the acid rains here tomorrow, the lungs of the children who live here burn, how are you going to tell who, how are you signing this deal? Look, it's not over yet, how you soiled Mersin. On the one hand, you're polluting Mersin, you're polluting a lot of places, but today I'm just going to speak of Mersin -- you're getting up, and you're signing a bill on international, dangerous, harmful contamination. Look, it's not over, Mersin. A chromium factory was built in the Mersin Kazanlı region, which is the waste of this chrome factory, chrome (+6), and you continue to store chrome (+6) waste, which is extremely carcinogenous and harmful, and you seriously endanger the people here. I wish it were over... look, we have a neighborhood called the Blackwall in Mersin, near Kazanlı. In the Blackwall, the Mersinians know, it's a fishing neighborhood, and people live off fishing and agriculture again, and you pull in oil tanks from a few miles across the sea and pump oil into silos. One day, oil gushed from the field of a family living in the Black Wall. And the citizen was glad, and we were glad. What the hell is going on? Next thing we know, there's a pipe blowing through there, and the whole garden's gone. So I'd like to say that Mersin is seriously contaminated by the AKP government from east to west. We've said it many times, we've said it dozens of times, and we've said it with press conferences. You didn't listen to us, the citizens reacted severely, and they rose up. Very recently, our citizens in Kazanlı's town, who recently worked as greenhouses under cover because of this sulfuric acid, stood up and took a walk, saying that they would be seriously damaged by it, farmers. All his pictures, all his footage, it's in the media. None of them had guns, none of them were terrorists, none of them had clubs, none of them even held a stone. These people made a press statement and wanted to walk to spread their sorrows. By order of the AKP government, these farmers were sprayed with gas, water was squeezed. I was there, and I got my share of it. Now, I've made it clear to you how the AKP government contaminated Mersin. My dear friends, if the people who signed this agreement act with honor, they are obliged to end the dream of the nuclear power plant in Mersin, and their adventure at once. Because, with this agreement, I don't want anything contaminated by dangerous and harmful substances in any way. Well, come on, you didn't want to, so something happened this time we'll be prepared and we'll intervene. I, now, ask the government of the AKP: there is a nuclear power plant called Metsamor, within the border of Armenia in the East. This nuclear power plant has already completed its life. As a result of consultations, many departments have been shut down, one or two departments are still functioning. Everyone, the eyes of the entire world, will explode at this nuclear plant in Armenia; the time bomb, the clock, it's not clear how much it was built, it's going to explode. What provinces are there? We have pain, we have Kars County, we have Iğdır Province. Now, when you had all this information, did you or did you not make any preparations under this law? Do you or do you not have plans to evacuate our 2 million people in this neighborhood when there's a nuclear power plant disaster in the vicinity of Mount Pain? I'd like to ask the Minister to make this very clear. Or are people here given any iodine tablets for cancer or not? Similarly, if any explosion occurs at the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, where you are so stubbornly defending, if the Ecemis fault line tickles and destroys the nuclear plant there, do you or do you not have a plan to evacuate for the people here? Now you tell me. You build nuclear plants in the West, you run sulfuric acid, chromium (+6) factories in the east, and then you get up and you side with it. So I ask you, what diet is this, what sauerkraut? On the one hand, you're telling me you're not going to dirty God, and you're building a nuclear power plant. So we've told you about the nuclear power plant, both in the Foreign Affairs Commission and in the press or on this stand over and over again. We said there shouldn't have to be a nuclear accident to cause damage to the nuclear power plant. In a study in Germany, see, in a study in Germany, there are no reactor accidents, there are no explosions, just that there are 2.2 times more chance of leukemia in children living within a 5km radius around the nuclear plant. I see that there are many scientists in this House, I know. I thought science was gonna light our way. Here's science, here's a study. Enter this, you can find it on the Internet, in the PubMed. Scientists have shown that leukemia is 2.2 times higher in this area. Look, I'm not talking about the explosions in Three Island, Fukushima, Chernobyl. None of this was intended, not desired, but an accident. It could have been an accident, I understand, but you have to learn from it. Let's be smart, learn from the plagues of others, it doesn't have to be us. Look, Japan, he's out, he's saying he's going to shut down all the nuclear power plants, and then he back down, and now he's getting ready to shut down again. Look, Germany shut down all its nuclear power plants because it signed deals like this, held its signature honorably. Now, I would like to ask the AKP's government to honor their signature and to end the adventure of the nuclear plant and the sulfuric acid factory in Mersin. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0157par0993	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. There's no further demands. I'll promise our friends who hacked into the system for answers. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0158par0997	Mr. Secretary, on December 27, 2012, when I arrived at Ankara Esenboğa Airport, I met a very busy crowd in the VIP lounge. I've learned that these guards are going from the VIP hall to Urbana for a trip to the Prime Minister's office. My question is, is any police officer taking advantage of the VIP app at the airport? What is the legal basis for taking advantage of the V.I.P. practice at the airport?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0157par0999	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0159par1001	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just asked you, and I'd like to share another incident like this with you: do you know that today, in our regions on the Syrian border, almost the authorities of the government have been stripped of their powers? Armed groups make their own rules there. Look, I want to give you another example: there was a charity campaign in Turkey to help with the needs of Syrian people on the Syrian border, and we support it. Did you know that the food that was collected here was taken over by the armed groups there before reaching the Syrian needs, and that they were sold back to the border areas for a bargain? Look, I'm just saying the name of the medicine from Reyhan on the border -- a citizen called. There is a claim that the sugars produced in Iconium have been taken to so-called Syrian-needed citizens. They want to sell me 50 sacks at a bargain price... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You can't avoid it, it's just an example.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0160par1007	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0161par1009	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the buildings belonging to TELEKOM are for sale from their owner with large posters. Is it appropriate to sell them with a square meter under it, or not? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0162par1012	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0163par1014	Thank you. Mr. Minister, two major obstacles to Turkey's sustainable growth and sustainable development. One of them is our low savings rate, and the other is our low level of financial literacy. On these two things...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0164par1016	And then there's the AKP.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0163par1017	Yes, it reminds me of our Congressman here, and there's also the AKP. But I'm going to ask you for an answer on the first two articles. What's your Ministry's work on solving these two problems? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0165par1019	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0166par1021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, not in the form of a question, but at the point of helping... Our Adana is a very troubled, very chaotic, very quarrelsome place that hasn't been handled well; its management is not good. So, now, in Adana, Sarıçam district of Sarıçam, Sarıçam is being asked to bring 18,000 people from Syria to be placed and prepared. Before this, we were told that we could be brought to places outside of Adana. The government is powerful, it can drain this country's electricity and water from the ground. So he can carry his electricity artificially. Can't they just leave these Syrians out of it? That's what I wanted to tell our minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0167par1025	Thank you. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0168par1027	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister through you. The area in Turup district of Tripoli-Arkak is a solid waste storage facility, just two or three miles from the road, and is not met by a response by citizens. Our Minister of Environment and Urbanism had also studied it, said it wouldn't be done later, and reflected in the press. What's the latest? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0169par1030	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0170par1032	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, the question of Mr. Erdemir is, since it is the direct issue of our ministry, I would like to start with him, with your permission: Savings is a very important issue for our country, because investments are a resource of savings. When we look at Turkey in the last 15 to 20 years of perspective, we see an increase in savings rates for the public. While the public has been in a more open situation in the past, especially in the last decade, we've seen a significant increase in public savings rates with the changes we've made in this sense. Well, that's very flattering, really. Is there still no work to be done? Of course, you have to do better. On the other hand, we see a trend in reducing the savings of the private sector's households at the same time. As the Ministry of Development, we, together with the World Bank, actually analyzed this issue in detail, and for the first time in Turkey, we did a comprehensive study of these savings, and we shared it with the public. In 2012, we have a savings rate of around 14 percent. So we're using the savings of the outside world in large quantities. As a developing country, it's not unusual to use the savings of the outside world at some point, so we're not in a position to export savings to the world. We need to grow fast, we need infrastructure, we need to pull the savings of the world at a certain rate -- you can also translate that into the current deficit -- it's normal to give the current account at a rate. You shouldn't wonder about that. What's important is the dosage of this, and we're trying to get it to a certain level of sustainability, and that's what we're trying to do. We need to look at the savings in two dimensions. One, there's the supply dimension. One: we need to present more savings instruments to the markets. Second: We need to make available savings tools more attractive to existing instruments, such as the individual pension system. We're trying to do that, too. On the one hand, we activate new instruments, like rent certificates, and we try to make existing instruments more effective. This is the supply size of the business. And then there's the demand dimension. There's a lot of work to be done here, too. Financial reading -- you've just highlighted -- is a really important issue. We need to develop this understanding of savings and more awareness for our firms, perhaps even more than basic education for our people, to evaluate savings in a more conscious way. On the other hand, of course, I'd like to underline this about savings. When we look at structural elements, when we look at demographic development, we expect Turkey's austerity rates will tend to increase. In our mid-term programme, we expect that this will increase in the longer-term, around 16 percent of what we predicted for 2015. As your income increases, we expect an increase in savings rates, especially as our women's participation in the labour force increases. Of course, we need to support this trend more. In fact, we're at these structural bottoms, and we're moving up and down, and we're putting our supporting policies in a multidimensional way. In our latest Central Time Program, we put savings in a very central place, and we're predicting a variety of measures in this direction, and we're going to continue to do this step by step, but it's not easy to change a structural value in very short time, so we're going to continue to be very sensitive about it in a medium-term, long-term perspective that needs to be tackled, and we're going to focus on it as the Ministry of Development, and we're going to do a lot, and we're going to do a lot of analysis, and we're going to continue to be careful about it in the next period. Mr. Gök asked about the legitimate VIPs. In fact, I think it's a good idea to answer those things in writing, because it's legal, because there have been questions about legislation. Again, some incidents concerning Syria were spoken of. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, there's an extraordinary situation there, there's a civil war, unfortunately there's a void of authority within Syria. It's not because of us. The irregularities of the inner structure there, of course, the extraordinary situation in Syria, the irregularities of civil war, the lack of authority. We must all wish that, hopefully, as soon as possible, there will be a change of regime. We need to wish that there will be a structure that embraces all the people of Syria, that protects Syria's unity, that represents the people of Syria with all its parts. This is the most radical solution, of course... since this is the source of the matter, we need to wish it to come to an immediate conclusion. What we do, of course, is we take our security measures at the border. For that, our security forces, our property management, of course, are taking precautions, but we also need to predict that whatever measures you take when there is a major fire, there will be some irregularities. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0171par1043	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, talks on Article 1 have been completed. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the first article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Articles, Mr Mehmet Shandir, Mersin... Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0172par1050	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. Mersin MP Aytüğ Atcı, I want to participate in a few sentences regarding the contamination of Mersin. Dear lawmakers, we are here to discuss a law against oil pollution adopted in 1990 and to be prepared for Dangerous and Harmful Matters adopted in 2000, where the Protocol for Intervention and Co-operation is legalized, and we will soon accept it. It's very important, to me it's valuable, it's a contract that needs to be addressed, it's a protocol. I hereby present to you all the attention of pollution in all the seas of our Turkey, pollution in all the production areas, pollution in agriculture, but in particular, I must offer you Mersin. Mersin -- you know, amongst you, we have valuable Mersin MPs -- is Turkey's apple of the eye. With 200km of beach, sea and sea, it's really a very important potential for tourism in terms of our country. It's a very important, valuable area in terms of growth that we can offer to the world's tourism market, which we can compete in. Unfortunately, we don't appreciate it here. With the decisions you've made during your reign, we're wasting this opportunity, which is so valuable to our country, to the government, and to the country. I'd like to announce this on behalf of the Mersinians to you valued lawmakers. Dear friends, including the Gazipaşa (Gazipaşa) of Antalya is a shoreline of about 450km. The mountains start right away... so you can go skiing in ten minutes, then you can go to sea in ten minutes. You're poisoning such valuable geography, unfortunately, to Turkey with your stubbornness of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant. The people of Mersin also experienced this in the 1970s. As if Turkey had nowhere else to go, you brought the Silifke SECKA Factory and set it up in the Stoverland, and we delayed Mersin's attack on tourism for 30 years. Although Antalya, Izmir, Muğla, have reached far distances in tourism, this SECKA factory, founded in Silifke, unfortunately, has blocked tourism in Mersin. Now you're trying to give the Mersins the same fate again. The Akkuyu nuclear power plant will produce such a result. Our Turkey needs energy, and this energy must also be gained from nuclear power plants as one of the various channels. We don't object to that. Besides, if Turkey is going to be a big country, the way to be this big country is a little bit of this nuclear technology, the knowledge of that. As the National Movement Party, we strongly oppose the construction of the Akkuyu nuclear plant in Mersin Büçükceli. However, in order for Turkey to have nuclear power, we also say it's true that nuclear power plants are being built, but in today's world, unfortunately, despite the negatives of nuclear plants -- despite all measures -- in Japan, Germany, in many parts of the world -- are now giving up nuclear power and opening up nuclear plants in Turkey, for tourism, to the nuclear plant, which is much more valuable than nuclear power. Another thing, again, is that the apple of agriculture, like Mersin, is polluting the plains of Mersin at the age of the vegetable and fruit warehouse of Turkey with these industrial wastes. As we have finished Thrace, we are now ending the plain of Tarsus, the plain of Mersin, and the factories of Çukurova. There's oil pollution. Now, the sulfuric acid factory is being built in Mersin, where we put a bullet in our own foot in the age of vegetables and fruit, an important source of exports. So, my dear friends, on the occasion of the meeting of this law, on behalf of the Mersinites, I would like you to reconsider this nuclear power plant decision in Akkuyu, Mersin-Gülnar-Gülceli, on behalf of the future generations, to ask you to do good for the law.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0173par1059	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. There's no further demands. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Light? No. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0174par1064	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: In many parts of Asia Minor, especially the province of Tokat, there is a growing migration to major cities and developed areas. As a result of the migration, the land is empty, and villages and cities are empty. As the Ministry of Development and the Government, I want to know if you have a plan, a macro plan, at the point where the migration stops, even at the point when the migration stops. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0175par1067	Thank you, Mr. Right. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0176par1069	Mr. President, I spent the weekend with our citizens in the village of Lanler and Özyurt, Haymana, Bumaz, Balçukhisar and Kerpic. It's pretty much the same problem. I consider it my duty to deliver these problems to you. In all our villages, there are serious problems such as sewers, water, roads, and electricity, and our villagers have a demand to extend a loan that will partially comfort them. All of our villagers face a very serious burden of debt and are under the threat of banks. There are some very serious victims. Does your authority plan to take measures that may help our villagers to be partially relieved? What are your immediate plans to do about it?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0175par1071	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Östen...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0177par1073	Yes, as MP of Mersin, I'd like to give you an update on the Akkuyu plant, which Mr. Shandır. As you all know, the agreement on the construction of a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu is the third generation nuclear power plant, which is intended to be built in Akkuyu, the third generation of nuclear power plant, as we call it, not at the time of the government of the deceased Bkent Ecevit, and not by the signature of the government of Mr. Bkent Ecevit, but rather by the third nuclear plant that Japan has done in its own body, which is capable of doing the least damage to people and the environment. Other than that, he said many things about the breakdown of Mersin. I don't agree with any of this because, Mersin... at this point, I disagree with our government...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0178par1077	Thank you, Mr. Knuckle. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0179par1079	Minister, again one of the major risks in Turkey's sustainable growth and development is Turkey's private sector debt. In Turkey's foreign debt supply, we now know that the lion's share is the private sector. But I think we can't fully analyze the risk of the private sector's external debt and the vulnerability it creates. Have you looked into the structure of Turkey's private sector foreign debt, its deadline, its distribution according to the firms, the distribution of currency rates? What kind of vulnerability do you see here, and can it create a crisis in the economy in the coming period?
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0178par1080	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0180par1082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's true what our Mersin MP said, the nuclear power plant was signed during the late Mr. Bulent Ecevit, but the late Bkent Ecevit and all the other prime ministers who came after him gave up the plant by listening to the public. I ask that the AKP government show the same sensitivity. Also, I thank him very much, that he admitted that he had done harm by saying that he had done the least damage. Yes, when Metzamor was founded, it was the least damaging, and now it's the most damaging. The least damaging Akkuyu will be Akkuyu, who has done the most damage in twenty years and thirty years. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0181par1086	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0182par1088	Mr. President, first of all, I'm curious about your procedure, and I'm about to make a commitment to the matter just now. According to our Civil Code, questions are directed to the government and the government answers the questions. Is it customary for lawmakers to answer questions? I want you to answer that. About the nuclear power plant, I'll be speaking my mind in a moment in a suitable international agreement.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0183par1091	Thank you. The MPs, of course, we can't determine the shape of their questions when they ask questions, Mr. Altay. Therefore, we must make a promise to anyone who wants a word.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0182par1093	You need to intervene.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0183par1094	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0184par1095	Thank you, Mr. President. The issue of immigration is really important, and it concerns both our major cities and the whole of Turkey. As the Ministry of Development, we think that the general policy is particularly important in this area, so it's very important that you work in the local area, increase employment, build attraction centers in relatively backward areas, and keep the population here. Of course, it may not be easy to achieve this 100%, but we're making an effort. That's what we've been trying to do in recent years with some very important institutional instruments. One of them is our regional programs. One of the main objectives of programs such as GAP, DAP, KOP, DOCAP, actually, is to reduce this migration. And when you look at the numbers, you see that it's dwindling relatively, so it's going on and on, but there's a relatively little decline in the past. It's actually important for our big cities because you solve the problem at its source. If you don't solve it there, that population will come and cause other problems in major cities. So we prioritized areas in our investment funds, in public investment funds, especially below average. When you look at it, we've done more than four times the increase in the DAP region over ten years; we've done another five times the increase in the DOKAP region; we've done an increase in investment funds around 6 times the KOP region; we've also done an increase in the GAP region. So, in our total investment funds, the share of these relatively underdeveloped areas was around 20 per cent ten years ago, while today it is about 35 per cent. It's an important element. On the other hand, with our incentive policies, we encourage private sector investments in these areas again. Here we use what we call the Socioeconomic Development Index as a criteria. The areas where the migration is high, you can appreciate that they're relatively underdeveloped. We also provide exclusive support for private sector investments around here. In our last incentive system, we've listed these areas in six areas, and we've adjusted the regional size of our incentive system accordingly. On the other hand, we're trying to get local dynamics back into action with a new set of structures like development agencies. Because we believe that not only do we solve things from the center, but local actors have to enter the process -- local governments, business, civil society -- but we need to establish a separate vision for each of our regions and analyze the relative advantages of the place and develop a regional strategy through it. So we're always telling our agencies that these are not just money-giving institutions, but information-making institutions, with local actors, with all the participating mechanisms, looking for new ways out of those areas. I, in particular last year, set this as a primary priority in all of our regions, and I asked all of our secretaries to do this: more analysis, more information. It's the same in the region, like a human being, where a better self-knowledge can improve itself; the better you get, the better you get, the better you get, the better you get strategies. We also have various studies in that direction, so we can't go into too many details now. Mr. Sky asked about villages: roads, water, sewer problems. We've run a very important program here, such as CYDES. So far, we've divided 7.9 billion dollar sources into these things, including road and drinking water, and there's been a really big breakthrough in the countryside. We're doing this again in 2013. Besides, in the Metropolitan City Law, you know, the whole area is now part of the major cities. Ankara is one of them. In the future, I believe our major cities will be able to gather resources, resources, resources in a pool, to provide a better service to this rural area and to our former rural areas. We've already created new financial resources for the capital cities, which will be useful in that sense. Mr. Erdemir asked about your private sector debt. This, of course, is a macroeconomic surveillance...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0185par1103	Madam Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0184par1104	Okay, next time...
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0185par1105	I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0186par1108	Engin Altay, personally.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0185par1109	In the name of the subject, Engin Altay. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0187par1112	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we approve the laws on the compliance of international agreements made by the government or previous governments. But here, instead of the government, a respected member of our ruling party, our esteemed MP, has responded in his own way to his reservations about the nuclear plant planned to be built in Mersin. But there's one thing our congressman should remember or should have a little study, and he said that this project was launched during the Ecevit period. Maybe my congressman doesn't know about those days. When an oil crisis broke out in the 70s, it was true that the future of the world was saved around the world, as if attacking these nuclear plants -- as if they were attacking the golden mine, as if they had found gold. But very soon after the severe consequences of nuclear power plants, especially the first generation of nuclear plants at that time, from Japan to Germany, from America to China, countries all over the world abandoned third generation nuclear power plants in energy policies, the first, second, and MP. The ones that were built were stopped, the ones that were planned, the ones that were projected were put on the shelf. There's no way to understand the government's lack of policy over this nuclear plant policy. So what we're thinking about is what Germany is stopping or not using, it's wrong, it's harmful, it's dangerous for the future of the world, it's dangerous for the environment and humanity. I don't know what the government intends to do about it by taking a piece of junk that it calls "the future of Turkey." Let me tell you something, lawmakers: In today's terms, there is no problem with Turkey's energy if there is a prevention of our current energy capacity, potential, missing fugitives in production, transmission and distribution. Imported natural gas power plants... I've told this Parliament several times, that those who created the irrationality of producing electricity through natural gas in Turkey and those who brought it to life have betrayed the country. Your minister at the time said Mr. Engin was telling the truth. The government, which has become irrational in the sense of producing electricity, is now doing the same thing: instead of Turkey's 46 imported coal-based thermal power plant projects. And that, as the government has agreed, is to build a thermal power plant based on imported coal, just as those with the guaranteed natural gas agreements betray the country. That's how it's supposed to be known. The government needs to come and explain to the lawmakers and to the great nation what it is to build this coal-based thermal power plant from here. In this sense, if the government is going to do something about energy... on the last 112 projects, the 12th day of 2012, the 12th day of the Prime Minister, where I am, as the Boyabat Dam opened, I am also celebrating the private sector... as well as the private sector. I was there, at that ceremony. Look, we're on the side of everything that's done right. Let's do 10 more Boyabat Dams like the Boyabat Dam; encourage the private sector, let's get it done, but if you go with this thermal head, with this nuclear head, you'll be doing a very heavy harm to Turkey. You put yourself and your descendants after you under a heavy burden. It's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a mistake. The government must give up this nuclear adventure and this thermal nonsense immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0188par1119	Thank you, Mr. Altay. There's no need to say more on the matter. There's no demand from our friends for questions and answers. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, as a result of a clear vote on the 2000 Official Law Bill for Preparing, Intervention and Co-operation Protocol on Dangerous and Harmful Matters: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya In this way, the bill has been passed and passed. Now, in the 12th place, we will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in place of 12th place, where we are in line with the 1978 Protocol on the International Convention on Life Safety at the Sea in 1974. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 130 rows. Mr. Ali Serindağ of Gaziantep, who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill. Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0189par1145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Party on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Constitutional Legislative Bill that we are eligible to participate in the 1978 Protocol of the Can Police International Convention on the Sea of 1974. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the country's co-operation in various areas, of course, contributes to the solution to problems in that area. Therefore, we think it would be appropriate for the approval of the International Convention on the Lifeguard in the Sea. But we must not neglect the safety of life on land while we maintain life at sea. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 130 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Now, Congressmans, I'd like to bring you all up to speed. Two days ago, I asked Mr. Secretary of State as a question, Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports in the order of the government, the question, of course, was of interest to the Ministry of Health, and he said he would tell the Minister of Health. I don't know if you did or didn't, but I know the problem hasn't been solved yet, and I know that the same problem is still going on. Now, valued lawmakers, health care is a very important service, health care is irreparable. Therefore, we believe in the importance of health care, and we believe that you do, too. However, now, as one of the largest hospitals in Turkey, I note that the Ankara Numune Hospital, one of Turkey's largest hospitals, is not currently operating in this hospital because of the absence of endovascular surgical materials, which is not available, in this area, cannot go to surgical treatments related to this area, where patients are there, but are unable to intervene because of lack of materials. According to our information, companies don't approve of the price given, they don't think it's enough. He's out of our league, but we'd like to make sure that these materials are provided and that this intervention is done as soon as possible for our patients who are waiting for the intervention. I'll leave it to all of you. Look, I told you two days ago, no one stood on it, the same problem continues. The same problem may be going on in many of our hospitals, but I've only received information about Ankara Numune Hospital because we had a patient there because we've been through it. Dear MPs, all Turkey must be careful about this. I'd like to point out where the AKP's government has brought health care and what kind of consequences our people face. Dear lawmakers, I've just said at the beginning of my words that countries can co-operate in different areas. One of them is terrorism, one of the most important issues. You know, terror is now an international quality. Therefore, the cooperation of countries is crucial in preventing terrorism. Now, the important thing is, first of all, it's about cooperation with the neighbors, so all countries have to cooperate, but first you have to cooperate with the neighbors. However, during the AKP period, unfortunately, such co-operation with our neighbors has been eliminated. See, just before the current events began in Syria, a number of agreements were signed between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Syrian government to prevent terrorism, but none of these agreements were brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, even -- you will remember -- were brought back in a recess, because the problems that Syria and Turkey are facing again have been withdrawn because the problems that Syria and Turkey are facing have been able to co-operate in the field of terrorism. You know as well as I do that outside events have a certain effect on domestic events, and our relations with other countries have affected the domestic terrorism. He's been in the press from time to time. Now, it is our duty, of course, to offer humanitarian assistance to the esteemed MPs, the asylum seekers in our country. Nobody says anything about it, we don't say anything about it, even support it, it's what we call it. If anyone has taken refuge in your country, you must help them. This isn't the first time. You know, many of the people who were there came to Turkey after the persecution of our relatives in Bulgaria, and they were welcomed to various places in Turkey. You know, there's an immigrant guesthouse in Gaziosmanpaşa in the 40s. The Bulgarians, the Kosovo people, the Bosnians, they were all invited there, and the Turkish people offered them all their resources. However, no country has ever had to interfere with the internal affairs of another country, so it has not set such a stage, has not prepared such an environment. The Republic of Turkey did not prepare that environment; others prepared it, and the government of the Republic of Turkey extended its hand to the people who came from there. Syria isn't like that. Now, it's in the press, and it hasn't been denied properly. Does Turkey provide all kinds of logistical support for opposition groups in Syria? No one's denying it, they're providing it. There are serious allegations that education is being provided. There are even serious rumors that opposition groups in Syria are being armed through Turkey. My dear friends, all of this has made our relations with Syria tense, and relations with Syria will surely affect the terrorist incidents inside. Similar problems are with Iran, similar problems with Iraq. We've abandoned the Iraqi Central Government, and we're establishing all relations with Regional Management. But what was the basic principle of the government of the Republic of Turkey in the beginning? In the beginning, the basic principle was to cooperate with the Central Government. So in short, it is very important to think about the national interests of the Republic of Turkey in international relations. Now, what do we say? Sir, that's where we say we're going to bring democracy. Of course, Turkey wants democracy in its neighbours, in neighbouring countries, in neighbouring countries, in the absolute sense. We want it in our country as well as in our country, and we want democracy to work in full. But can any of us, my dear friends, say that now, in Turkey, democracy is implemented by all its institutions, by all its rules? If it were possible, the Lighthouse corruption wouldn't have come to this. Look, now, dear friends, doesn't that make you feel guilty? The Lighthouse trial on corruption only started three years later. The prosecutors who did the investigation were dismissed, tried, judged by them, they were cleared, but those who committed or alleged corruption of the Lighthouse are now on trial. Doesn't that upset your conscience, dear lawmakers? Doesn't that remind you that something has to be done? Well, the prosecutors who did the investigation were investigated, cleared. And those who depose them, who subject them to this kind of procedure, will they have no responsibility? Shall We not charge them with aught? Aren't we going to hold them responsible for these proceedings? Look, you guys don't have to be offended at all. You were offended when a congressman mentioned corruption earlier. I'd like to bring to your attention some matters concerning the Lighthouse, which most of you probably know about, you know, but I still feel the need to say it. See, in Turkey, the State would need a positive opinion in order for a association to be granted the status of a community that works for the benefit of the public, so to be considered one. The Lighthouse Association has announced that they want to work for the public interest, that they want to move on to such a status, which the State Department has denied. For the second time, he made the same request, and the court rejected it again. So, what did you do? If that's what the State Department did... you said, you have removed the State's authority. What did you do? You've brought the Lighthouse to the status of a community that works for the public. What did you do after that? You have brought the Lighthouse to the status of all Turkey's help, without permission, without asking permission. That's the Lighthouse, that's the Lighthouse. You can't make a complete bee out of it, so you can't separate yourself from all of it. That's what happened. Shouldn't we say that? My dear friends, this is what happened, and I believe that many of you have a conscience. I absolutely believe that, I absolutely believe that, but it's not enough to have a conscience, we all have to say it. My dear friends, what did the court say now in Germany, in Germany, when the trial was closed and the people convicted and the judge there? The ones responsible said in Turkey. They've been tried, convicted, sir, they've served their time -- I think part of the sentence's over, so I guess -- but we're just starting to judge here. It should make us think of something, make us feel guilty. It's not our money; it's people's money, citizen's money. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to bring to your attention, again, something relevant to this matter. Now, in your reign, the Public Contraction Act has been passed. Do you think or do you know -- and you know 80 percent -- how many times has the Public Contraction Law been changed? Look, there have been over 20 direct changes in the Public Contraction Law, with indirect changes, more than 30. Well, if a law is being changed so much, why are you? Why are my dear friends changing so much? You're making a judgment against the Public Contraction Act on every incident, why? Well, aren't we going to say that? My dear friends, there have just been talks about the Preparing, Intervention and Co-operation Protocol with Dangerous and Harmful Matters, and therefore the environmental problem has been voiced. I've asked the Minister a question about the pollution in the Ergene basin. Now, Mr. Secretary, the truth is that when your government was founded, it established a Parliamentary research commission on pollution in the Ergene basin. I know that part of my friends who are now members of this parliamentary research commission is currently serving in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This commission came in, did the necessary reviews, and we learned that that's when Turkey filed the report and gave it to the Grand National Assembly. I was stationed there at the time, so I know about this day and night. However, what has been done since then in Ergene was that only -- in 2003 or 2004, I don't remember the full year at the moment -- could be 2003 -- was that the bed of Ergene River had to be cleaned a little bit. Other than that, nothing was done there. Mr. Secretary, here's what we're doing. This is what we're doing. Now, of course, Mr. Secretary has changed, Mr. Bozdağ has arrived. Nothing has been done there, Mr. Secretary, nothing has been done. Now, Mr. Secretary says that, sir, local governments have responsibility. So just because the local authorities are responsible, doesn't that mean the government won't be able to handle the pollution there? That's the first one. Second of all, it's not really like that. Local governments may have a partial responsibility there, but it's the irregular industrialization policy there that's responsible. The people there know that, and so do the officers in the government's relevant units. Now, the Ergene River is born within the Centipede, a clear water, but when it goes to the sea, it becomes one of the dirtiest waters in the world. You know, the waters of the Ergene River are now not used in agricultural irrigation. What are they doing? In the most mandatory cases, they water it from the Centipede Dam, dilute it, and that's the only way it can be watered down or watered down. That's where the teenage basin came in. The water reserve in the teenager's basin is half of the water reserve in the GAP region, see, half of it. It used to come out at 10 meters, 15 meters, and now it's up at 100-150 meters. The groundwater is contaminated. You can clean the surface water soon, but you can't clean the underground water so quickly. So we did this, we did this. Sir, it's being done. Here, we've organized a plan of action. There's got to be a way out of this kind of thing. All Turkey has to do with this -- not only in Ergene. -- what needs to be done must be acted quickly. You've been in power for over ten years. From now on, sir, we'll do this, we'll do this. You have no right to say, you have no luxury. You don't have that luxury. You've been running Turkey for ten years. My dear friends, now, in Gaziantep, the Gaziantep -- again, on the basis of a question -- the Gaziantep farmer, at the moment, can't do water farming in most places. You know why he can't? It's because the price of energy is too high. Energy prices can't do it because of the height. Anyone who can water is also facing execution. Why? Because he can't pay for his energy. So we need to find a solution to this problem as soon as possible. On the one hand, we're going to build the village. We're saying, "We can't provide the means for them to produce, we can't provide the environment." Therefore, the government must quickly address the farmer's problems. Look, I have friends here in Gaziantep, and they know it. Last year, the red-shelled Nut Pistachio was $12, this year $8. Entrance prices have gone up, but product prices are dropping. The same thing happened in grape age, which can only be sold this year for 40 to 45 cents, when the Islamic family is sold for 120 cents. Why? Because in the past years, it could be exported, sent to Syria, or sent to other Arab countries. Since they couldn't export the grapes this year, they were sold for 40 or 45 cents. Our friends in the district know that, so there's no secret about it. Therefore, the farmer's problems need to be resolved as soon as possible. Snow is not sold for last year's price, but it's going at half its price, but entry prices have increased by 30 to 40 percent. Well, of course we're going to bring them up, Congressman, and you're going to listen, and you're going to look for solutions. My dear friends, Turkey has very important problems, Turkey has very serious problems. These problems must be dealt with without any other thought, absolutely need to be dealt with. While the ministers are answering the questions, of course, Mr. Secretary may not know all the questions asked to him, which must be met naturally, because Mr. Vice Prime Minister of Bozdağ may not know the questions to be asked in every field, but we would like to say that questions should be taken seriously, and if they can't be answered at the time, they should be addressed to their interests, and the questions of lawmakers should be answered seriously, including written question proposals. I just told you, my dear friends - I told you two days ago - it's urgent. Right now, there's no endovascular surgical supplies at the Numune Hospital, patients can't be operated on, we've been saying that for two days, but no one's responding to that, my dear friends, no one's responding. So, what's the citizen gonna do? Where will the citizen go? Mr. Secretary, please, take care of this matter. We've been talking about it for days. You can call Ankara Numune Hospital. Everyone knows about this problem, but, sir, the problem is being solved. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this and all the problems that concern our country and our citizens, the citizens, the nation have chosen us. So let's all, look, let's all work together to solve these problems, solve these problems. If you don't solve the problems, my dear friends, say: "We can't solve them." Then you can say, "Allah has taken care of us." You say, "We will take your place." I thank you, all of you, and I thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0190par1176	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Congressmans, no further demands, no friends in the system. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPRODUCATION OF CONTINUES OF CANNITY IN THE SEA OF 1974 INTERVIEWED IN PROTOCOLN 1978 ADADDE 1- (1) was adopted on February 17, 1978, and it was appropriate for us to join the 1978 Protocol of Relations to the International Convention on the Health of the Sea. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1, Ankara MP Levent Gök. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0191par1185	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. I'd like to share an important matter with you, dear lawmakers. Perhaps, in the future, when you decide to settle down in Ankara during or after parliament, I would like to share with you an important danger that awaits all of you and a problem that concerns you very closely. Tomorrow, January 18, 2013, is an important turning point in the privatisation process of Ankara's PresidentGAZ. After the transfer of natural gas to PresidentGAZ, one of the most important sources of revenues from Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, which the Privatisation Administration has tendered, it is the last day for tomorrow's bids, lawmakers. I'd like to discuss something so important that, if you'd like, we can share with you the aspects or aspects of my conversation that you disagree with later, but I'd like to make a point that I would like to share with you. Mr. President, after Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's air pollution in Ankara between the 1980s and 1990s, the formula they found to free Ankara from air pollution has been to bring natural gas to Ankara and promote it. So with the use of natural gas, air pollution was largely prevented in Ankara, and the incentive of our citizens for natural gas has now reached a size of 1,41,000 subscribers. I'd like to tell you that 500 thousand more subscribers are waiting. As a result, natural gas became the only option for fuel in Ankara, and all apartments, all houses, have largely completed natural gas transformations. Naturally, the only option in the government's incentive is that natural gas is adopted and used by all and used by all, and everyone, in the sense that the price of natural gas will be protected for the benefit of the public in the process of determining the least, and the price will be determined in the interest of the public. However, when we arrived in 2007 -- and I'm not tired of telling you about Melih Gökçek, and you're not tired of saving him -- when Ankara Metropolitan Municipality was blocked in three or even one of the subways, your government established a company called EGOGAZ, both to save Melih Gökçek, and to fund Ankara's subway, in 2007, to separate the natural gas from EGO. This company, at the time, would be privatized within two years and would only be privatized by 80 percent. The privatisation company was also conditioned to set a price for ten years. Ankara is a province that uses the most expensive gas in Turkey at 5.5 cents, but even so, a ten-year protection was preserved in that law. In this process, my dear friends, three times the purpose of the transfer of funds to the subway has been introduced to privatisation in order to ensure the substantial amount of natural gas debt to the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality is not paid. If this place is privatized, we will make $3 billion. The tender has not been held in all three tenders, and it has come to this. During the two-year period of coming to this day, the President of the Privatisation Administration has been appointed President of the Privatisation Administration for the privatisation process of the capital city because it failed to complete privatisation. In this process, the esteemed lawmakers, as you know, handed over the construction of the political power subways to the Ministry of Transport in 2011 on the congestion of Ankara subways, and assumed a central government of a $3 billion obligation. Thus, the subways that Melih Gravity began but did not finish were also assumed by power. The cost to your power is $3 billion. Now, the first item of the Natural Gas Market Law -- when we looked at the requirements -- was to pay off debts to BOTASH, my dear friends. Yesterday, the General Manager of the Republic of Turkey issued a statement saying that in 2011, the President of the United States made 48.7m euros in profit, and that the loan to BOTAŞ was paid on the institutional tax in Turkey in the 47th place, 262nd place in Ankara. As you look at the basis of the law, my dear friends, since the debt to BOTASH, which is the first element of the law, has been paid and the decision to privatise the presidential government to fund the construction of subways that form the second element, and if the government has claimed responsibility for the construction of the subways, then there is no legal basis for the privatisation of the capital city's privatisation. Now, in July, a change in the bag law brought a much different topic before Ankara residents. Under the amendment to this bill, an additional amendment to the 2007 Gas Market Law was introduced, and Ankara's fixed fee, which was preserved for ten years, was reduced to eight years. Therefore, the company that will be privatised while the Ankarans are under protection for a decade -- after receiving it -- will not be able to touch the price for ten years -- has been reduced to eight years, while the Ankarans have received a full two-year period of economically valuable deputies from Ankara's pocket. Also, this company has been authorized to set the price. Now the high-value lawmakers expect very important problems with the presidential tender, which will be made tomorrow's final bid. The privatisation of Turkey's second largest gas company has no legal grounds for the privatisation of 1,41,000 subscribers and more 500,000 subscribers. Since the problem with BOTASH is resolved and the construction of the subways has been taken over by the government, the privatisation of the president is of no use. Melih kyzçek is today, there is no tomorrow. Let's assume we're privatizing it. What's the privatisation agency gonna do with this money? She will give it to him, and he will use it anywhere. Can such an important income be denied by the mayor who will take charge of Ankara when she has finished her term? Guys, I'm talking about 1 million, 411,000 subscribers, and I'm talking about a profitable organization. That doesn't make any sense, Mr. Secretary. It is necessary to intervene and to stop privatisation. If this is not done, Ankaraans will be left at the mercy of the company which will receive natural gas after eight years of privatisation. Ankara will be an uninhabitable city. It is my responsibility as an Ankara MP to warn all our MPs and all my citizens from here. Since I know, I'd rather share things with you. Such a close threat awaits the Ankarans, but my dear friends, you can appreciate that this has got to be a point. Look, you save, you take the subways, Melih Gökçek still doesn't stop, and the other day, he took the authority from the Metropolitan Municipality for 250 million lira loans, as well as for taking ASKI (EGO) hostage, so he took the authority to mortgage both EGO's revenues and ASKI's revenues. So, my dear friends, is it still possible to defend a mayor who owes you $5 billion in debt, even though debts to BOTASH have been paid in such a way that I told you about the development of the subway? Again, I've just stated, in one minute of questions, that's not enough, the bus line between Esenboği and Kızılay is being privatized. Now, buses are being privatized, on the one hand they're getting powers from the municipality for new loans, while the construction of the subway has been handed over to the government. You've put your backs into the government. That's how everyone makes mayor, valued lawmakers. Am I right? If I'm wrong, please let one of you say you're wrong. So Ankarans are involved in a process without knowing what to expect in eight years. This process is important, this privatisation must be stopped. We, the Republican People's Party, have already taken the bag of legislation to the Constitutional Court, but if the privatisation is carried out, we will also go to the State to cancel the privatisation, and I respectfully salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0192par1202	Thank you, Mr. Sky. No further demands on the matter, no friends entering the system. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes to the technical supplements of the protocol. Free Special on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, Manisa MP. Mr. Private, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0193par1210	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I, very importantly, want to draw everyone's attention to something that is very painful to my conscience, that, every day, when I learn a little bit more, I feel a little more sorry, and that the High Assembly must know about it. There is a case under the name "Serbian espionage and blackmail case" in İzmir. In fact, the first of them had been seen in Istanbul. A lot of people have been charged with incredible crimes, but when the case is over, there's not a single person who's ever been charged with espionage charges that constitute the name of the case. When you look back, one person in the Turkish army has been sentenced to discharge for espionage charges so far. However, 350 people and 350 defendants have been charged with espionage in the case in İzmir. 56 of them are under arrest in the military prison of the Aegean Army. I came across an amazing painting on behalf of the Republican People's Party Prison Review Commission. It's the opinion of every member of parliament on their own conscience that, in fact, if you have any doubts about it, you can go and consult with the Ministry of Justice with the appropriate permission. We know that several lawmakers have visited the defendants in various cases. You have to listen to the stories of the people there. The people there have been waiting for an indictment for eight months. Again, the charge against them is military espionage, blackmail and prostitution. First of all, put yourself in the place of the people's mother, father, wife, child, please. And in the case, it's called "restraint" -- we know more as "secretity," the right term -- there's a restraining order; there's no evidence, there's no indictment. People have been embarrassed by their parents and neighbors, unable to look at their wives' faces, waiting eight months for an indictment. They're all saying we're open with everything, but let's get these lunatics out there. Let's discuss them. They don't see the evidence. On top of that, a number of publishing places, every couple of months -- last week -- no matter what makes sense, over and over again -- have been making these ugly claims for eight months, while everyone's been waiting for the prosecutor's indictment. Here, the very distinguished officers of the Turkish army are accused of incredible things. But, if you look at who's there, let me tell you, what they have in common is that none of them have any claim against them in the Ergenekon case or the Sledgehammer case. So, think of this case, a universal cluster, a case that accuses a successful officer of many young people who don't claim to be Ergenekon and Sledgehammer. We're talking 350 people, not one person has ever faced any charges. In them, we have all the naval base commanders, commodores, frigate commanders, three to five years ahead of their friends in the Air Force, three F-16 fleet commanders who will compete for the Air Force Command in the future. Chief Medical Officer of Diyarbakır Military Hospital, GATA İstanbul and Ankara's most successful scientists, critical officers of the Battle Command MEBS Presidency, especially officers and petty officers in the service of promotions and transfers. The officer who committed a prostitution operation on the Sabarona ship, who uncovered that scum, is now there on the charge of military espionage. The commander in charge of the National Ship Project, the commander in charge of the National Torpedo Project, is here. Obviously, look, if there is an elite, respected, successful officer in the army, if it is not in Ergenekon and Balyoz, then Izmir is also under arrest. The common attributes of these personnel, from every force, rank, class and expertise, were to be highly successful in their field, many of them expected promotions in the past High Army. They all have strip badges from their own Joint Chiefs, General Staff, Chiefs of Staff, all of whom have been promoted forward, and they're all on critical duty. They're all there and they're covered in mud like this. They want to use their rights to be exonerated as soon as possible. Let me tell you a few common features of the impression that we received from the staff at the end of our visit: they are currently suspended from the very critical tasks they are currently on with personnel, with this case and arrest measure. They've been suspended from their current position and authority. The staff on such a successful and critical mission can't do their duty right now and can't help the army and the country. In the operation of these individuals, images were taken from the most critical computers of their troops, the armed forces. So the most important, critical images of the military are now elsewhere. In the case of the giant espionage case of 350 officers arrested, there will be no doubt of their modern, hardworking, patriotic loyalty in all units, the taking of the Ataturkist officers immediately gives a threat to all the other members of all the troops. There's no one we can't reach anymore, so watch your step. Someone says. Someone is designing the tomorrows of the armed forces by cutting off those who will come to the most important tasks in the future. Now, I want to give you a specific example, but first, a few more features: none of these people have ever seen each other before, these gangs and each of these people have their credit cards filled with debt. But, for example, if someone resigns, they can get a very high salary at any airline they want. Another commander, if he leaves, tens of thousands of dollars of wages are in the corner when he's a distant sea captain. One of them, a Turkish scientist, you know, has found a cure for schizophrenia, a scientist who's made us all proud, who's broken the heart of the world in schizophrenia. American pharmaceutical companies offered him a billion-dollar deal, not a million. This discovery should remain in Turkey, where some pharmaceutical companies in Turkey have all invested and offered to share this discovery, which would have a very high income. If the Turkish firms build a consortium, I'll share it. I'll continue my work at GATA. This schizophrenia will change the fate of the world. The common denominator is that they're all over their credit card debt. Let's set up a research commission, see if there's a rich man in them, if they're facing such important offers. But I'd like to get your attention on this whole schizophrenia thing. Schizophrenia -- there are pharmacists among us, physicians -- is the world's most expensive disease and a disease without permanent treatment. This is a striking example of the disease. For example, the journal Nature One says that the invention of a single schizophrenic drug creates a $5 billion market change in the world. The interesting method in treating the government of the United States of America is that it is vulnerable to pharmaceutical companies. It is not different in Turkey, because since the 1970s, we believe in Dopa, because we believe in Dopa. So there's a way that we've chosen V, which doesn't cure disease, which is very expensive medicines and world markets, they're paying $100 billion for schizophrenia markets, but now, we've gone the other way, and maybe someone already knew that way, if Agmatin Hypothesy and arrested professor colonel were arrested, then three days later, in the world's most elite schizophrenic convention, it's actually the agmatism, and maybe we can treat these patients permanently in a couple of months, not 100 billion dollars per patient month. Instead of 500 liras, he was going to explain that he could recover in a couple of sessions with a simple drug worth 10-15 lira. Now, the whole world is wondering what's going to happen to this scientist, but somebody knows, so we have to walk on the agmate, not dopamine. And this scientist is in there now! TÜBITAK has recovered its contribution to its research, the research has stopped, the scientist is standing there. I'm sure American pharmaceutical companies are most pleased with this job, but this scientist stops and makes headlines about this prostitution, blackmail, whatever. He's a newspaper that has a bond of heart to the United States, a newspaper that has very important connections from the United States, and I bring this to the attention of the High Assembly. This could be a lot more serious than we thought. That's our problem.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0194par1220	Mr. Special, thank you. There's no further demands on the matter. We don't have any friends in the system. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. There's no demand for word on matter. No entry for QA. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. No one's in the system for a QA. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the open vote on whether we are eligible to join the 1978 Protocol on the International Convention of the Can Police at the Sea in 1974: ▪ Number of votes used: 194 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 13th place, in line with the International Charter on Safe Containers. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 131 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICAL CONTINUES CONTINUES CONTINUE THAT WE AGREE TO CONTINUE TO CONTINUE It was fitting that we join the International Convention on Containers 1- (1). There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to Article 1. MADDE 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the technical provisions of this Charter. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 131 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 3 ▪ This goes into effect in the history of Law publication. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you one minute to open the bill, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call an open vote on our participation in the International Convention on Safety Containers: ▪ Number of votes used: 191 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill is legal, good luck and good luck. Members of parliament, we will begin talks with the Court of State and Foreign Affairs Report, which are now ranked 14th, in accordance with the decision on the adoption of the International Contractal Changes in the Education, Documentation, and Trade Standards of the 1978 Shipmen. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 132 rows. There's no demand for words on all of them. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 132 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The development of the ship's people in 1978 has been determined to ensure that we are not allowed to participate in the public rights of the United States on the grounds of the development of the United States of Germany and the development of the United States. MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was adopted on May 22, 1991, and it was appropriate for us to join the decision on the adoption of the International Convention on the Education, Documentation of Shipmans and Shift Standards. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the technical provisions of the Convention 2- (1). There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire law is subject to an open vote. I submit the vote to your votes on the electronic device, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote with the electronic device, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I submit to the clear vote of the Dair Law Charter, that it is appropriate for us to agree on the decision on the Education, Documentation of Shipmen and Acceptance of International Contractal Changes on Shift Standards: ▪ Number of Votes Used: 208 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill is legal, good luck and good luck. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 15th place, for the adoption of the 1979 International Convention on Search and Rescue Relations in the Sea. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with 135 rows. He doesn't want a word on the whole bill. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. A review of the law on the fact that we've been found in the same way that we've been able to make a difference in our relationship to the United States of Marine Search and Rescue in 1979. MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was adopted on May 18, 1998, and it was fitting that we join the resolution on the Acceptance of Changes in the International Convention on Search and Rescue in the Sea of 1979. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the technical provisions of this contract. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There will be a vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] (x) 135 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Congressmans, I present the conclusion of the open vote on whether it is appropriate for us to agree to accept amendments to the 1979 Search and Rescue International Convention: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will now begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Danish Kingdom and the 16th. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed by 61 rows of numbers. Necati Özensoy has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill. Mr. Özensoy, please.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0195par1368	Mr. President, I have received a pledge of agreement between the Turkish Republic's government and the Danish Kingdom to co-operate in the field of energy. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, this is a deal that I find important, and it's really appropriate and important. Because cooperation in the field of energy includes a text of an agreement to co-operate in both environment and renewable energy. By recognizing the common interests shared by the parties for the clean and sustainable environment; by considering the strategic role of renewable energy in the current global challenges and needs of development; by wishing for mutual co-operation in the production and use of renewable energy; by maintaining the importance of providing renewable energy solutions, which are compatible with the need for economic growth, and the urgency of finding affordable and long-term solutions; by maintaining a common framework for co-operation and co-operation of these understandings in the areas of the production and use of renewable energy energy; by continuing to state the idea of co-operation of energy issues. So when we look at the energy policies in Turkey and where we're coming from, we have to, of course, look at the geographical conditions of Turkey as well as some investments are being made. Because, when we look at our seas, we don't have the seaside energy investments, we don't have tourism, we don't have deserts, we don't have barren land. So if there's going to be an investment on these fertile terrains and tourism-profitable shores, we have to pay attention to the environment and to the destruction of nature. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 61 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Look, Denmark's set a target for itself. It has the world's best technology in the field of wind energy, one of the renewable energy types, and in 2050, it also has its goal to meet all energy from these renewable energy sources and winds, and it also works on that, and it also has technology. Now, when we look at investments in that sense, of course, there's a need to invest in meeting Turkey's energy needs, but there are challenges in building hydropower plants, at times in the region, in people of that region, rightfully, that the irrigation water is going out of their hands, or that nature in the region is going to be destroyed. But I think it would be in a sense right to take minimal measures when these investments are being made, or actually analyze the difference between whether those projects will destroy nature in that sense or whether that project is being built there and the destruction of nature. And for that, I think we need more scientific, more advanced technologies. Ben, are you opposed to the use of domestic resources, or to the use of renewable resources? Never, as the National Movement Party, we are not opposed to the use of domestic and renewable resources. However, in some areas, in some areas, we see that the real investment there is not for the good of the country, but for the benefit of the people of that region, we have made it clear and clear that our words are not taken into account. As an example of these, Mr. Secretary of State, who came up with a question about the thermal power plant in the Bursa Keles Koz tree area again, at the very first moment, before the tender was raised, said: I brought up the investment here or the tender here because of the desire to build a thousand megawatt thermal power plant here. Ask me if you like. Now, I, of course, know pretty much all of these organized industry heads he was talking about, so I asked the board. The man at the head of that delegation said: "We have not asked him for a thousand megawatts, but 600 megawatts, but we have located a place not in the province of Keles, but in the region of Konya, where we have a demand." They answered. So, Mr. Secretary, perhaps because it was a delegation from Bursa, he thought it was appropriate, but as a result, it did not result in an organisation of OSB (OSB) in Bursa. Again, there's a certain firm in the Ministry of Energy, whose name is mixed up in a number of things, particularly a company with a troubled name for coal, and then the same company bought Seyitömer. Now, I'd like to express the Minister's approaches to this environment from here, from the transcripts. I told Mr. Secretary here that in the past, the project was tendered in 2006, but was cancelled because there was no CED report in 2007. Mr. Secretary says, "We will not make these investments, but with the environment, not with the CED, but with the environment." Again, let's do them with the environment, not against the environment, but with the environment. Of course we have to do it right. It says. It's called a referendum, etc., and it's not going to be invested in Keles, despite the environment, it's not going to be made into a coal plant by polluting the environment, says the Minister. I'm reading these from the transcripts here. Here I say: 'The tiles are being torn out, the villages are being evacuated.' Here, Mr. Minister says again and again, by burning the environment, by destroying it, by destroying it, we are not going to build a plant there. After this talk, thank you, Mr. Minister has shown real sensitivity, he said: let's form a delegation with friends; here come the bureaucrats, and here come the friends who are members of the region, and this field, as you call it, if the environment is truly going to be destroyed, if there is no good for the Kelesians, let's give up this tender. We went to that area, where the villagers were interviewed. Believe me, the referendums were held several times, and the villagers said they didn't want the plant there by 98 percent, because the reason is it doesn't matter if the thermal plant was built there; see, there were nine villages in the Koz tree area, with the thermal plant being built. Why is it being emptied? It's being emptied for 32 million tons of coal. So, the available reserve there is only 32 million tons. Look, there's a 4 billion-ton reserve in the Afshin-Elbia area. So, this reserve is almost 120-130 times the reserve in Keles' Koz tree area. So, therefore, the development of those plants in these areas is 120-130 times smaller than the construction of a thermal plant that will evacuate all villages... and come see the area where those villages are -- I've told you so many times -- the best cherries in the world are growing, my friends. Look! You will not find in the market what grows in it, nor will any of you eat from it, but if you go to it, you will eat from it. Because the reason is that all the cherries go to export. So, one of the reasons why, in fact, the cherries in that village, in that area, have quality is because of the benefits of the chemical acid from that coal, which is also true. Look, I don't have a bigger picture of this, but let me show you this: this area, a whole green area, a valley, a valley called Koz Tree Valley. This area will be completely emptied and blackened for 32 million tons of coal. This is a completely open business. So, all the cherry trees here, 120,000 cherry trees are going to be removed, and 60,000 walnut trees are going to be removed, and so is the name of the Koz tree, which, you know, is called the walnut, which means the leverage comes from the walnut. The reason why there's a Koz tree area is because our people first grew a walnut, there's 60,000 walnut trees, and there's 120,000 in a place with a cherry tree and some of the world's best quality products, where we're going to convert 32 million tons of reserves into cash, which, wherever you count it today, when you put the cost of subtracting there, put the income of the cherry and the walnut next to it, believe the public interests there are the cherry and the walnuts there. Because, as I've been saying, we're not going to get much out of that 32 million tons of coal. Look, I'll give you one example: Turkey's Coal Company's annual profits are around 450 million and its annual sales capacity is around 35 million tons. So we've converted the coal here into public interests. The whole amount you're going to say is going to contribute only to about 400 million when we put it side by side compared to here. The plant here will work for 30 years. I mean, for 30 years, the villagers here are already condemned, so there's no way they can come back because they're going to be evacuated in an uncertain way where else they're going to live. Therefore, if we really want to make decent investments in Turkey to address energy problems, we need to think about the future of the people of that region. Look, I'll tell you something else: the people of that area know, and the MPs of the surrounding provinces know; the Keles region, especially the region, is where the history of the seven hundred years has been since the Ottoman era. The people in those villages have been living for seven hundred years, where history, culture, where their ancestors, their grandfathers, have been living since Osman Gazi came to that region. So, without further ado, I would like to express to all of you that even though this project here has been auctioned off, it is wrong, that it must be reviewed once again.
tbmm-2013-01-17sit01spe0196par1385	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. He doesn't want a word on the whole bill. I hereby submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE PRODUCTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND DANIARIAN KINGDOM ACTIVITY TO CONTINUE IN ENERGY ACTIVITY MADDE 1- (1) was signed in Copenhagen on August 6, 2008, and "The adoption of Agreement for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Denmark was appropriate. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I present the conclusion of the open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Denmark for Co-operation in the field of energy. ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill has been adopted and legalized. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Members of parliament, we will begin talks by the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 17th place, to prevent Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking and Approvement of Protocol related to Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 50 rows. He doesn't want a word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AUDIENCE REPUBLICATION WITH THE OPTIMATION OF ENGLISH COMMUNITY IN AVUSTRIA COMMUNITY PROGRESSED IN THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTIONS OF THE PROTECTIONS MADDE 1- (1) was approved on April 28, 2010 in Ankara. There is no demand of word on Article 1. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. (x) 50 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, I submit the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Australia to prevent Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking and ratification of Protocol related to Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used: 214 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (January 22nd 2013) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
