tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 95th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Congressmans, Mr. President has honored our great House of Honor by taking its place in the audience box. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Members of parliament, according to our agenda, in accordance with the decision made in the 93rd Union of the General Assembly, dated 17/4/2013, we move to talks to celebrate the 93rd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day. Honored MPs, today we celebrate the 93rd anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hereby remember the heroic MPs of our First Assembly, all of our martyrs and veterans, with mercy, gratitude and gratitude, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the leader of our national struggle. Our country, founded by lawmakers gathered here 90 or three years ago, is growing stronger and stronger every day. In the harsh conditions of the period, the spirit shown by lawmakers who came here in love of their homeland is always a guide for us in our struggle for independence. In the harsh conditions of the period, the heroic members of the first coven, who stood up to the enemy with great patriotism and their ideal and excitement, have made a memorable place in our nation's hearts. April 23, 1920, this historic day is a happy and truly happy day that we have announced to the world that the future and the future of the nation will be fulfilled only by the determination and determination of the nation. The sovereignty flag of an occupied state has been raised today. Our Assembly is opened today with sacrifices, prayers, and tears that have been cut down in the humble building of the nation. On that day, Sinop MP Sheriff, as the oldest member of this Grand Assembly, and with the help of God, I declare to the world that our nation has begun to take full independence and govern its existence. In the future, the most important step has been taken on the road to the republic and democracy. Our coven has created a modern state with its institutions and institutions from the ruins of the empire. This great nation first gathered its Parliament, put forth its will, led the national struggle in great tribulations and tribulations; with this struggle against invaders and invaders, it broke down the imperialist game, which was intended to be played and implemented, and stopped its final crusade. The Turkish nation has found a way to protect its presence and unity. So this parliament is the veteran parliament, the glorious parliament, the coven that established our final and eternal state, the solution of our nation and our republic, but also the founding parliament. The will of the assembly is the will of the nation; everyone must know it this way, to understand it this way, to apply the will that he has set forth as law or decision. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has always served as the leading figure in the march and solution of the Turkish nation's problems, in the consciousness and zeal of its historical responsibility in 90 years from that day. The history of our Parliament, which has taken power and power from the nation, is also the history of our government. Honorable MPs are the name of the future and future of April 23rd. The aim of April 23rd is freedom and independence; its goal is to create a advanced, modern, developed, democratic country. As lawmakers, we are obliged to keep the spirit, purpose, and goal of April 23rd alive, to keep their achievements alive. Basically, the power of the republic and democracy comes from here, taking life water from the will of the nation. Therefore, the superiority of the national will cannot be passed on to us and cannot be abandoned. We now understand much better and thank those who have given us these values after the progress of the Republic, democracy, and the spirit of April 23rd, in our region and in the world. Congressmans, life is moving forward, but you can tell by looking back. We have to learn from the past to build our future, such a responsibility is on our shoulders, so it is our duty to strengthen national sovereignty, to improve our country, and to place the Republic of Turkey in the most powerful place in modern states. As lawmakers, this ideal is a debt to our necks. Turkey will continue its unity and unity forever by deepening its brotherhood in order to achieve this great goal. Because in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in the Middle East, in Yemen, and in Fizan, in the battle of sovereignty and independence, we gave blood, we gave life, we shed tears, our pain, our sadness, our joy, our joy, in the end. When we became one, we became big and alive. Let us not forget that strength is in unity, and unity is in unity. We will reject separation and discrimination, defend unity and brotherhood, keep the faith that there is mercy in unity, strengthen our heart bridges, and fight to make hearts, as Jonah said. This is the essence of the culture we've built in this land for a thousand years and of our wonderful civilization. We will overcome every problem our country faces with this spirit and faith. Our history will always shine light on us, light our way. We will not give up the ideals of the founding will, the excitement of a powerful country. Ninety-three years ago, the nation that stood up from here will continue to exist in the most powerful way, and no one must doubt it. Honourable MPs, we can't just talk about problems and politics. It's our primary duty to solve problems, our reason for being. Non-resolved politics makes itself debatable. The necessity of politics, which can't predict problems and solutions that will arise not only in the present problems, but in the future, is the most important problem. The world is changing rapidly. In every aspect of life, from politics to economics, foreign relations, production relationships, to technological developments, there's a deep, deep change. Turkey is not outside of this change and cannot stay out of it. We have historical, cultural, political experience to understand this change and transformation correctly, to do what is necessary. We have great potential. It is our duty to make this potential dynamic and to use it well. We cannot leave Turkey behind the modern world and the troubled civilization, which is another task, the will of the great Ataturk. Our country has many problems. There's bound to be problems where there's people and society. Making solutions to problems is the reason for politics. Science and reason present the method of solution, democracy prepares the grounds for it. There's no problem we can't handle, no solutions we can't find, without destroying the floor of discussion and dialogue, talking, discussing it civilizedly. The minutes and arguments of the First Assembly, the style, the spirit and the climate that dominates those arguments, must teach us a lot. Today, it is clear that we need this climate, peace, embrace, common sense, and sensitivity. We must first meet this need in Turkey's Grand National Assembly and present examples of respect for our nation. It is our responsibility to maintain the dignity and function of this sacred roof because the word "Meclis" means "the future," and we've been trying to guide the future of the nation for 90 years. For a good future, we have a subject, a problem, and a mission, which is to build a new constitution. We have been told for years by all the communities where the existing Constitution is now too narrow for us. In a more democratic, egalitarian and more liberal constitution, a new social contract that has put the individual, society, state relationship on a healthy basis is the top demand and expectation of our nation for our common future. This demand is a necessity as of today, we have to see it, we can't delay it, we can't neglect it. We can't make it an object of new accusations. Let us not forget that the duty of the House is not to make a wish, but to fulfill this most important longing and expectation of the nation. In other words, it's a matter of law enforcement. We work late at night every week and make laws. We're trying to find a solution to our country's problems, by making laws, by changing what exists according to the needs of the day. It's not enough to make a law. The important thing is to interpret and implement them in accordance with the lawmaker's will. It's obvious that we're having some difficulties at this point. Particularly the differences in practice and the victims that they have uncovered are our most important problem today. We're re-employing new laws, new packages, or putting society into new expectations. What we expect as the legislature is that we clearly reveal our will well, that the practices are done according to it, that the sacrifices are resolved. Such expectations are not to be met by new legal regulations, but by libertarians, according to the 90th article of the Constitution, and by the spirit of international contracts under which we have signed them. That's what modern law requires. On the contrary, practices bring up many problems that we find difficult to overcome, such as political, social, security, representation, long imprisonment, long trial. Dear MPs, today is also Children's Day. As chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I am proud to live in a country that declared April 23rd as a Children's Day. Just as today is better than yesterday, tomorrow will be better than today. Today's children will do it. I believe that the level of our children raised more democratic, more independent individuals will be beyond our imaginations, as long as we leave them a more democratic and manageable country. With these thoughts and wishes, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of our beloved nation, our children. Members of parliament, I will now pledge ten minutes to the leaders of the group of political party groups represented by Turkey's Grand National Assembly, according to the decision made. I present the order: Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Parliament Group, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Chairman of the People's Party and Chairman of the People's Party for Cumhuriyet People's Party, İstanbul MP Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, Chairman of the National Movement Party and Chairman of Parliament Group Osmaniye MP Mr Şeşli, Chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr Selahtin Demirtaş, instead of Siirt MP Mr Gültan Kışanak. The first statement belongs to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of Parliament Group. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0002par0031	Mr. President, our Honorable President, the esteemed MPs, salute your delegation with love and respect, celebrate the 93rd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Turkey and all the children of the world, with my sincerest feelings for National Sovereignty and Children's Day. The first chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Gazi Mustafa Kemal. I remember once again with mercy and gratitude all the MPs in the first legislature to move and run our Liberation War. On behalf of our country and nation, all of our parliamentarians, who have served for the nation from April 23, 1920 to now under the rule of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, thank you. I wish you health and pleasure for those who are alive. I pray for the mercy of God to those who have tempted the Hereafter. Mr. President, the highly valued MPs were opened on Friday (April 23, 1920) in Ankara, following Friday's prayer at the Haci Bayram Veli Mosque. The mebus gathered around the same common purpose as all the colors, all the differences from all over Turkey, held their first meeting in Parliament in a deep awe and a great excitement. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to show you a few photographs that have been published for the very first time in the past few days because of this meaningful day here. In this photograph, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, his comrades and Miss Latife are chatting with the children just before the founding of our republic, and it is of great importance that our children show their place in the organization. That's why I've been tasked with bringing this photo and showing it. Another photo... and another group of children in the years of the Liberation War are waiting for Gazi Mustafa Kemal, but this painting is of great importance to show us where we came from when we looked at the children's clothing, the barefoot paintings. Yes, this is the day our Parliament opened, and again, the children who were waiting to meet Gazi Mustafa Kemal, and the next delegation, with the banner, are waiting for that blessed moment in front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, it is possible to make it very clear that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been opened with children and most of all for children. Our battle for salvation was given to the children. The Republic was most declared for children on October 29, 1923. See, the valued MPs, Turkey, reached April 23, 1920, and October 29, 1923 under very difficult circumstances. Starting from the Balkan wars, hundreds of thousands of Mehmets had been raised to martyrdom in the Moor, in Çanakkale, in Hejaz, in the Canal, in the Caucasus front. A significant portion of our fallen soldiers were married and had children. There's no doubt that those Mehmets, shot clean in the forehead, lying there, saw the rose garden they were going to enter, the angels smiling at them, as much as they could not smell their children in their villages, in their homes, and they smiled. It was the glory they left behind the children who had made Mehmetçik such a hero, with their faith in their breasts. They willingly died for their homeland, they fought heroically for their flag, but most of all, for their children, they went to war as if they were going to a wedding for all the children of Turkey, as if they had a lover. Throughout history, all our martyrs, martyrs of the Salvation War, martyrs of the Republic, martyrs of terror, for the independence of the land, for the glory of the moon-star flag, for the eternal reading of the persecuted Muhammad in this land, but most of all for their children, for our children, they gave up their undecided lives. Yes, like on April 23, 1920, today the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is more for children than anything and anyone else, for our children. Our whole goal, our whole goal, our entire effort, is to build a more prosperous, more peaceful, stronger Turkey for our children before ourselves. Mr. President, we don't have the power to change the past, but we have the power to shape the future. We have no power to restore their fathers to orphaned children, but we have the will to prevent more children from becoming orphans. We have a lot of savings, experience, opportunity to keep our children from living, and our grandchildren from living. Our martyrs put their lives on the line for the children without hesitation. So, this Parliament, which is celebrated as the anniversary of the institution, has to set up a new and new horizon for the children of Turkey, especially for the children of Turkey. This Parliament must have the promise of Turkey today to tell its children, its goal to show them, its hope to give them. Children of this beautiful country, believe me, they deserve the best of everything. The children of this country deserve the best quality, the most common, the most modern education. The children of this beautiful country, their cities, their safe streets, their peaceful homes, deserve more than enough. All of Turkey's children deserve a country that they will grow up in prosperity and stability and grow up in solidarity and brotherhood. Believe me, all the children of this country deserve to grow up with their parents, to sit at the table with their parents and brothers every night, to embrace their fathers every evening. Children of this land, each one of whom is a martyr's son, each of whom is a martyr's grandson, deserve to live with honor, pride, honor, pride, pride, pride, pride, pride of his country, his country, his flag, his nation's greatness. On April 23, 1920, the first Parliament established national sovereignty and gave it to the children as a gift. In all colors, the First Assembly created a single picture of Turkey with all its differences, giving children a new nation, a strengthened brotherhood with it. We grew up in problems, but we owe it to our children to trust a Turkey that has solved their problems or settled their solutions. We grew up with the constitutions of intervention, but we owe it to our children to deliver a democratic, participant, liberal, embracer of the constitution, and to this Congress. We grew up with suffering, we grew up with tears in the blackened lives of terror, burning furnaces, but now it's up to all of us to give our children a country to live in trust, to live as brothers, not with each other, to embrace each other. Mr. President, a dear lawmakers, a mother of martyrs in Denizli, recently says to his visitors, "I wish this process had begun six months ago, but if my Vedat had not been a martyr, we can't bring back the martyr Vedat, but know this, we can stop other good-byes, other saplings from falling into the ground without time. Dear brothers, whether we're left alone or alone, we'll continue this struggle to build a brighter Turkey so that the new Vedats don't become martyrs. We will continue to preserve and praise our unity, our unity, our brotherhood, like our martyrs, without hurting the spirit of our martyrs, without offending the mothers of martyrs. With the spirit of April 23, 1920, with that understanding, we will continue to move forward with that brotherhood. I thank you, all our heroes, martyrs and veterans, including Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, all our politicians who served in this House. To celebrate the feast of all our children, all the children of the world, to salute your grand delegation, I thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0003par0051	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, in turn, it belongs to Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, president of the Republican People's Party and Parliamentary Group. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0004par0055	Mr. President, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, my fellow citizens who watch us at the head of television, Mustafa Kemal Pasha, on 24 April 1920, takes the stand at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and gives a speech. A phrase he used in that speech reminds us of what the original mission of the Grand Assembly was to form on April 23rd. Mustafa Kemal Paşa says: It is a basic principle to accept that the national will concentrated directly on the parliament has seized the fate of the land. • The heavy burden, which Turkey has not refused to carry on the shoulders of the Grand National Assembly, lies in this sentence: to seize the contract of the city. There is no other legislature in the nation's legislatures on earth that has so much control over the fate of the nation. Because the authority used by this House was born from a spirit that was not limited to written judgments, but from a fire of will. With this spirit, the Parliament is an institution that has dominated all political institutions, changed the existing system from beginning to end, which has been completely successful by working in every field and not avoiding sacrifice because the spirit of that institution was Kuvaimilliya. Everyone should know that on 23 April 1920, the mission to seize the fate of the country appointed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is still on the shoulders of this Grand Assembly with its full weight on 23 April 2013. Honourable lawmakers, we must remember that this glorious Assembly, which crowns the struggle to cease to exist, is a Parliament with personality and identity. This Parliament is a military parliament because it has given us the War of Salvation. This Parliament is the founding parliament because it has established the state of the Republic of Turkey. This Parliament is liberal, this Parliament is nationalist, and without a doubt, this Parliament is a revolutionary parliament. The glory of this House is great, its honor is great, of course, its titles are many, but there is one concept that we owe all the other qualities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the quality that exists in its own corporate chemistry. If not, it's called law. This Parliament owes its existence to the people and to the law. In this context, we have to know and understand the Anatolian and Rumeli Defense Law Associations, which were founded at the beginning of the liberation. Dear friends, this High Assembly has no right to violate its law, it has no right to hand over its own responsibility, it has no right to cross its limits, it has no right to argue with its own law, because it is the law that is broken, it is the right and the law of the people. Once again, I invite everyone to reconsider by putting their hand on your conscience, bringing to your mind the noble heroes of the founding assembly. Isn't it natural to lose the reputation of a council of eight members who've been put in jail as illegitimate and out of law? How many of these friends of ours spent in prison is this April 23rd, and how long will their rights continue to be declared? Dear lawmakers, wouldn't it undermine the dignity of a Parliament that has been officially stripped of its budget control authority? Is it possible that, when there is no extraordinary situation, that a legislature, which has been officially authorized by the decrees of the law, could be an interpreter to the collective conscience of the nation? We must understand April 23, 1920. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have no right to alienate ourselves. On April 23, 1920, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey gained the broadest legitimacy within the law. The main way to deal with our problems on April 23, 2013 is to solve problems by staying within the law. We celebrate together on a April 23rd day, National Sovereignty and Children's Day. This holiday is the feast of world peace, of world children. This holiday is a long journey to the future of peace and the festival of the future. This festival is the name of light, a burning hope for the children of Anatolia, especially the poor children, orphans and orphans, to cling to life. This holiday is the holiday of the self-absorbed nation. That's why April 23, 1920 is both in the mind and in the language and in the heart. No one has the strength or the courage to erase it, just like the Republic of Turkey, like the T.C. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0005par0065	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. In turn, it belongs to Mr. State Gardeny, chairman of the National Movement Party and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Gardenie.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0006par0069	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are celebrating the 93rd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today, and we are excited once again to understand the meaning and importance of this sacred nation's trust. At the beginning of my speech, I salute your honorary committee and my fellow saints watching us on the screens with love and respect. I honor and admire the honorable members of the First Assembly, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and all our beloved martyrs and all the heroes of the national struggle, all of whom I ask for God's mercy. Dear MPs, the opening of the Grand National Assembly on a Friday (April 23, 1920) in a stone building in the Nation is the most important link, the most important move in the last two centuries of events. This great step has taken its place in our history as a new generation, a blessed beginning, and a solid will for the Turkish nation. In order to grasp the meaning of the opening of the Grand National Assembly, to understand intentions and goals, we must first examine and describe the events until the arrival of April 23, 1920. As it is known, the Turkish nation has been exhausted and exhausted from decades of war and struggle, suffering catastrophic loss of human and soil. For hundreds of years, the geography of our land, ruled by justice and mercy, has been lost one by one. From the beginning of the 1900s, the imperial conspiracy, which became more aggressive and violent, collapsed on our empire like a nightmare, sharing our national assets with secret agreements and dividing between them. Unfortunately, it's almost fate to step down, withdraw a little bit more, compromise a little more after every topic that's been described as a problem, as a problem. Just like today, the freedom of democracy, the freedom, the freedom, the peace, and the words of the colonial mind were among the propaganda weapons it adopted yesterday to stir and divide us, and, ultimately, for our nation, the loss was known and made final. In the last century of the Imperial era, the acts of independence, which thrived with provocation and provocation, have been periodically scattered all over us, slowly spreading all over us. Especially in the 19th century, the Ottoman Empire was at the center of global interest accounts, cruel purposes, and bloody reckoning. The unsatisfactory circles of the Turkish nation have constantly put us into trial, crippled our ideal to live together, and staged a play-by-play to take away our homeland. In the Balkans, in the Middle East, in North Africa, heavy traumas, painful defeats, and heartbreaking retreats are nothing more than a natural consequence of these issues that I'm trying to express. Again, ethnic-based provocations, such as today, have opened doors to riots, revolts and breakups that will lead to separation and dissolution. At first, the main language demands, the proposals to solve virtual problems, such as self-government demands, eventually left us with defeat and bent our necks. The bottom of this is, of course, the so-called intellectual mentality of Western fans who can't read the scale of improvements, who ignore national identity and national existence, who seek a solution and exit rather than national roots. Those who seek a solution in this inertia and in my indoctrination have invaded the Balkans, those who are looking for a solution have flocked to the Holy Land, and those who make a fuss about peace have set up their bloody plots all around us. Bloody gears of imperialism, which are constantly active under the historic Sharq issue, have demonstrated the unconscionability of our national resources, our integration, our determination to live, to grind, and ultimately swallow. About a century ago, look at the destruction in the Balkans, look at the solutions in North Africa, take a sincere bow to the collapse in the Middle East, and unfortunately you will always be able to see these truths. For this reason, learning from history, taking advantage of experiences, and not repeating the same mistakes once again is invaluable to all of us, especially those with political responsibility. In addition to these historical truths that I'm trying to explain, the honorable MPs stole the yeast of the Grand National Assembly and planted its columns for as long as it took from the First World War of 1914 to the occupation of Istanbul on March 16, 1920. After the Mondros Truce Agreement, our beloved homeland was invaded and invaded, and the Turkish nation was forced to live in total darkness. It's a disgrace, and it's a disgrace, that the delegation that returned from the Mondros, gave the good news that the independence of the state had been completely liberated, that it had worked out much better than expected, as if it had been done among the equal. According to this delegation, Istanbul will not have a single enemy soldier, nor will it be occupied, as it is thought. However, it soon became clear how the enemy's boots reached all over Asia Minor, and how our independence crumbled. They were always wrong to see even the bottom of their feet, but at the same time, infertile and shallow minds, far from the truth, without insight, to announce that everything would be beautiful, that peace and peace would come, and that our nation's rights would be conquered. The nobility and high virtues that constitute the conditions of the Grand National Assembly have always been visionary, cautious, and unrelenting because they do not look at matters from a narrow scale, from a driven logic, and have not left their fate -- thankfully -- remained a stain on the fate of the Turkish nation. Gazi Mustafa Kemal and the founding heroes showed complete loyalty to the sovereignty of our beloved nation and laid the foundations of the Republic of Turkey on 23 April 1920. Despite the depressing conditions of the occupation, the Grand National Assembly was born like the sun of hope in the stone building of Ulalin, a great creation of our great nation, which had no choice but to live independently. On April 23, 1920, nationalist heroes, who were only strong from the nation, excited by the presence of the nation and reluctant to keep the nation alive, were organized, rapidly growing, and patiently working, creating this unsubstantiated nation's work. It was presented at the opening of the House, where the national struggle was based above all on legitimacy and the will of the nation. We know that the first Parliament is a democratic platform, a place of prayer, and a unique epic myth, of believing in the Turkish nation behind it, and ultimately making the nation believe in salvation. The Grand National Assembly is a masterpiece of the nationalist idea that, in a time when it was thought to be over, it was a masterpiece of the nationalist idea that was hidden within our noble nation and inspired it to defend the country. Participation in the First Assembly, pluralism and democratic spirit are the hallmarks and masterpieces of a nationality glow that subjectes the nation. This national participation and national representation anxiety will be the basis of our national sovereignty, national will and democratic culture, which will find shape and meaning in our republic in later years. Our national struggle has achieved success primarily under the leadership and leadership of the Grand National Assembly, with deep commitment to the independence of the Turkish nation. With this dignity, our great coven, the winner of wars, the savior of the land, the crown of our heads, and our national jewel. Our Grand National Assembly, with special care and merit, is the mind and heart of the national struggle that continues until the country is completely free from occupation and the Turkish nation is independent. And for that reason, he has earned his full title as a veteran. Sadly, ninety-three years after the establishment of our Parliament, our national unity is being tried to break down, destroy our national identity. A thousand years of deep brotherhood law, which we should very carefully quash, is wanted to be wasted in the hands of ethnic opportunists. One thing we must never forget as we commemorate the sacred anniversary of the First Assembly is that the national trusts, blood, and lives that our founders, heroes, and our noble ancestors, have left to us, will not be abandoned or compromised in any way. The indivisible integrity of our country, the unitary structure of our state, the honor, dignity and unity of the Turkish nation are from the red lines of the Veteran Assembly and will not be violated. No one should misinterpret the First Assembly, and no one should reverse some of the statements that nationalist heroes use in their term. The national consciousness needed today, the nationalist perspective, still stands in the blessed memory of the Grand National Assembly and its magnificent works. If any of them are having second thoughts, they must go to the nation and do the accounting of the past honestly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, April 23rd, are also celebrated as Children's Day. From here, he celebrates the holiday of all our children, and I wish them all a happy, peaceful, and successful life together with their families. Let it not be forgotten that every child will come, every child is the hope of the Turkish nation. With these thoughts, I reminisce with gratitude and mercy of our beloved martyrs, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who entrusted us with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which we were proud to have under his roof ninety-three years ago. As I stop speaking, I salute you once again, with love and respect, our fellow saints on the screen.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0007par0083	Thank you, Mr. Gardenie. The chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, is Mr. Gültan Kışanak, a member of the Siirt MP.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0008par0085	The co-chair, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0007par0086	That's because they're speaking for the group. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0009par0089	Mr. President, Mr. President, honored MPs, honored guests and dear children, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of my own behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party. In his 90th year, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of all our children and the peoples of Turkey. The first Parliament established 90 years ago was founded on pluralism, and there was no one left without the concept of fucking us. The peoples of ancient Asia Minor and Mesopotamia united fate for a common future, an equal and free life. In Erzurum Congress, in the Sivas Congress, in the Amasian Protocols and in the Grand National Assembly established on April 23, 1920, and in the Constitution of 1921, it is possible to see this understanding. While political unity was defined in the 1921 Constitution, no ethnicity was highlighted, and representatives of the Assembly of the Great Nation took part in parliament with their own identities. The Founder's Assembly has granted broad autonomy to self-government-owned provinces, so that, with all the differences of citizens, they are able to join the administration. The Constitution of 1921 was based on decentralisation, pluralism, and the principles of justice in representation. Sadly, three years later, this spirit was injured by the Constitution of 1924. While there was an opportunity to create a pluralistic, democraticization and human rights history before the new republic, the concept of us was reduced to a single 1924 Constitution and this opportunity was squandered by the republic's history, the history of great suffering, traumas, conflicts, riots, and massacres. The monotheistic mindset and state structure, like a straight shirt, took over the entire community. The common future goal, based on principles of equality, freedom and autonomy, has been damaged. Monotheism and denial also brought assimilation and destruction. There were massacres in Zilan, and in Dersim, and in Sivas, and in the Indian. The coups, the deep state structures, the antidemocratic practices, the gangizations followed one another. There have been inhumane tortures in Mamak. In Metris, in Diyarbakir. The Republic's meeting with democracy has been prevented. A dark understanding tried to take over our future. So much so that even the concepts of citizens, supposedly citizens, have been used. The Republic does not have semantics, it has equal citizens; it is forgotten even the most basic principle. This dark understanding, which delivered the Suphis to the waves of the Black Sea, did not even tolerate the ideas of Saidi Kurdi, who brought Sheikh Saidi, Seyit Reza, and Deniz Gezmiş, to the gallows, and gave this country a great accounting of conscience, and of conscience. It wasn't just the human body that was burned in Madimak, but the songs of the brotherhood that we were burning and longing for. Dear MPs, respected citizens of Turkey, Democrats from all those who resisted these policies have fought a great struggle for humanity. In particular, Kurdish people waged a relentless democracy and a struggle against denial, oppression and assimilation policies. The monotheistic, authoritarian, couptarian mentality has been bankrupted in the struggle of democracy, exclusion, exclusion, and humanity, and, of course, the free tomorrows will be built on these challenges. Where we come from, history offers us new opportunities. Containment in the founding of the Republic sheds light on the creation of a new future with all our colors. In this country, it is time to build a democratic republic where all the destroyed identities will live together with the law of equality. Dear MPs, respected citizens of Turkey, each of us has a historic mission in this Parliament. This mission is to build democracy and peace. The right to peace is sacred, democracy is indispensable. We can build an honorable peace by taking democratic steps that will be the basis of an equal, free and common country. Surely we don't all have to be the same, but all of us can live together, build a future in a democratic environment, within the law of equality, by respecting one another's beliefs, identity, values. First of all, we have the responsibility of removing all obstacles to democracy and building a new constitution. A democratic and liberal constitution based on pluralism will be able to combine all colors in the society, meet under a roof. All political parties, institutions and citizens with this historical responsibility cannot avoid the task of building a democratic constitution that can build the democratic republic. Dear people of Turkey, there is no doubt that we can move the new process to a stage where democratic rights are recognised and guaranteed, through a democratic, political struggle that we can all take together. It will be law of equality for a democratic country. Turks, Kurds, Arabs, Lazces, Lazians, Süryans, Armenians, Greeks, and all the peoples whose name we can't count here; all the religious and beliefs of this country's greatest values; all the political wealth of this country; the women, workers who walk ahead of the struggle for freedom and equality, who rebuild life every day with their hands; the children and young ones whose hope is always shining in their eyes; we can live together in an equal and free future under this rainbow. We got wet together in the rain, and we can all meet the sun. Dear lawmakers, this Parliament faces a historic responsibility today, which welcomes its 93rd year as a prisoner. We're in the tragedy of talking about democratisation in a parliament whose representation is in captivity, building a democratic constitution. This council and its valued members, considered a high duty, must be rid of this hump of democratization. The right of representation of our lawmakers, elected by the people's will and represented by the existing antidemocratic laws, must be restored, and must be ensured that they begin their duties in parliament as soon as possible. Dear children, this day of the opening of the House is also a gift to you, to all the children of the world. Blessed are all the children today, all the children of the world. I give greetings and love to all the children. But, unfortunately, we can't truly enjoy the joy of being the only country in the world that has given children a holiday today. The cold hands on the streets till midnight are our children's hands. Our children who work hard and forget the true color of their skin. The children whose future was taken from you in prisons are our children. Children who were forced to get married at an early age and lost their dreams are our children. Ceylan Önkol, Enis Ata, Uður Kaymaz, Serhat Eser, Serhat Encu, Mazlum Akay, and the 600 children who lost their lives because of the neglect of the state or the intentional attitude of the security forces. They lost their lives because of the bombs that exploded while playing. At times, they were slaughtered in the presence of the target. Among them are those who were entrusted with bullets greater than their age, and among them are those who went to heaven with mules to carry their dreams. In front of all of them, I bow down with respect for the memories, and I say let a sense of governance and a sense of democracy come to this country that will no longer slaughter our children. Dear people, dear lawmakers, on this day we feel we all owe these children an apology. Today, under this roof, we must democratize the republic and give our children happy tomorrows where the glow in their eyes is not extinguished, their hopes are real. We now have the responsibility to make the Republic fit for the children's pure heart. This world is not an inheritance from our ancestors, but the trust of our children. We must be worthy of this trust by maintaining social peace. I salute all of you in the hope that our children will have a free future in which they can live in peace.
tbmm-2013-04-23sit01spe0010par0103	[[Standing ovations from BDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Winteranak. Congressmans, today's talks on the importance and meaning have been completed. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (April 24th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
