tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can answer these talks, the government's response time is 20 minutes. The first off-the-book statement is from Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar, who asked to be mentioned as an accident at the Zonguldak Kozlu Company mine on January 7, 2013. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I salute you with love and respect. As we all know, last Monday, a mining accident occurred in my constituency, Zonguldak. There was an explosion at Kozlu House as a result of the release of methane gas and the meeting of methane with coal. As a result of this explosion, that stone coal that we dug with the dig, with the hilt, the stone coal, which was like stone, turned to ice, and it was sprayed. It's called "degaj" in the mining industry, precious MPs, our beloved nation. And this hand, the sad incident, is that, unfortunately, we lost eight brothers, took out five of our miners' bodies on Monday afternoons, buried them on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and three of our brothers were removed from the stove on Fridays and Saturdays. This accident occurred at Kozlu House in January of Turkey's Stone Coal Association in code minus 630. One of our brothers was injured, he was in intensive care, and now, thank God, he's all right. Again, four of our miners were slightly injured, and they're fine. I pray for God's mercy to our fallen miners, to our mine martyrs, and to their grieving relatives, that this will be the end, I hope, so that God will never show us such an accident again. We were there at the time, our friends in opposition, our friends in power, our friends in law, we were at the scene. Our governor, our union managers, TTK executives and our Minister of Labor, our Minister of Energy, have arrived at the scene. Right now, technical, administrative and forensic investigations are under way. Here, workers of the subburdening company have been exposed to this accident. The senior contractor, TTK, is a private firm owned by the subburdening company. This is the company of the wife of a member of our opposition party. This MP is a member of an opposition party here who has spoken several times about a work accident. I'd like to express that we both want to hear from our Zonguldak, who came out here and expressed his views. I'm sure he'll also have a message of condolences and condolence to our Zonguldak, our fellow workers. In our Zonguldak, you know, since 1830, we've had around 5,000 mining martyrs since the discovery of the coal mine. In 92, we lost 263 brothers in Kozlu. Two years ago, we lost 30 brothers in Karadon. In 83, we lost 103 brothers at Armutçuk. Every house in Zonguldak must have a citizen who died of mine disease, or a martyr who died in the mines, as a result of the accidents. We have relatives in our family who have died of mine disease. There has been talk of problems with subcontractorization. Hopefully, our Labour Minister has explained that in the coming days, a draft law with the General Assembly will be able to compromise all parties in the coming days. We aim to eliminate this subcontractor system, hopefully, in the mining sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk to you about a generalization. A recently broadcast of the TTK administration -- reflected in the press -- has been published. A statement on the fact that business accidents took place due to the fact that workers were unable to employ themselves, or that the workers who owed money would be terminated if they didn't pay their debts within a year. I find that absolutely unacceptable and critical. This is certainly an application that will demoralize our fellow workers and motivate them. And I don't want the administration to give it up right now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to put it this way. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the hope that this accident will be the last, I salute your grand delegation once again. Once again, I pray for God's mercy to the miners who lost their lives.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. The second out-of-date statement is from Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça, who wants to talk about the fisheries industry and the fisheries' problems. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of fisheries and fishermen in our country. I salute your high council. Today is the birth anniversary of the great poet Nazim Hikmet. So I'd like to start with a beautiful poem of his: From Far Asia, who came at four paces As a mare's head to the Mediterranean This country is ours! The wrists are covered in blood, the teeth are tied, the feet are bare. And this earth, like a silk carpet, This hell, this heaven is ours! Don't let the hand doors open again, Destroy the human being's worship. This invitation is ours! Living like a tree is one and free And like a forest, like a brother This longing is ours! This is where I honor the great poet, Nazim Hikmet. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My fellow lawmakers, I salute the strawberry workers of our fisheries, whose bread comes not from stone but from water in the Mediterranean, in the Black Sea, in the Black Sea, in the Black Sea, in the Black Sea, in the Black Sea, in the Black Sea, in the Mediterranean. Our fishermen are unhappy, just as they are in the agriculture and livestock industry in 2013. Our country, surrounded by three seas, has an 8.333km coastline, and unfortunately, we can't use 25 million hectares efficiently. Look, according to Fishing, Information and Statistics Service's 30/11/2012, our total production of water products in Turkey is 653,000 tonnes. The 2012 target was also targeted at 750 thousand tons. According to TÜİK 2011 data, we have 38,000 people working in this area, and we have a permit for hunting at 16,558. Despite its high value in exporting in the water products sector, unfortunately, Turkey has not reached its desired goals in this area. Our consumption per capita is still very low and is about six and a half kilograms. In this sector, which has such great potential and volume, its contribution to non-aggressive annual revenues is only four percent. Look, our fishermen today were treated as stepchildren in Balıkesir, southern Marmara, Erdek, Versayaka, and Çakil, in the village of Şahinburgaz, Bandirma, Marmara, and Asha Island, in our region, in the ten-year power of the AKP. Our dear friend just warned me. I'd like to ask you, Minister of State in charge of the EU, why don't you give them the money from the European Union funds to our fishermen in Turkey? (CHP turns) Mahmut Tanal has just expressed himself. I'm asking you again, you don't give it to our fishermen like you don't give it to us in agriculture. Look, today our fishermen are suffering a great deal of damage due to lack of plans. Turkey's fishing policy, unfortunately, is done with four years of construction, and the fish's length should be changed according to years, while four years of planning are being made, which victimises our fishermen. Our fishermen want to find a ministry of their own, but today in this important sector, our fishermen can't see a foreign ministry, they want to establish a ministry. Again, because of great saliva and pollution in the sea, in the deep sea, in the hunt, our fishermen were caught in the Sea of Marmara, not by fish, but by saliva. The situation of our fishermen in the Marmara Sea must be arranged privately. And our fishermen have SGK problems, none of them have SGK bonuses. The sea depth net and hunting of the Marmara Sea, which is 60 feet [18 m] in the sea, has been raised to 24 meters [24 m], and the practice of these bans without giving our fishermen a choice, to our fishermen in the Sea of Marmara, to our fishermen in the Sea, to leave your boats in the tax office, and to leave them to the banks. From here, my brother Ahmet Mountaindeniz, a fisherman in Bandırma Misakje village, asks, "You're bringing us to the EU criteria." Do you observe EU criteria when giving them to us? Therefore, our fishermen have a lot of problems, but I would like to call out to you from here: "Look, if you cross the seas, the revenge of the sea will be very painful. Those who think that they are safe on land will be destroyed by the tsunami of the sea. He says, "Listen to the voice of the fishermen, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0005par0058	Thank you, Mr. Havut. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Demir Çelik, a member of the Mush MP who wants to talk about the problems of municipalities' share in the County Bank. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0006par0063	Mr. President, I salute you, my esteemed fellow lawmakers. Mr. President, today is January 15, 2013, the day when, as with many public institutions and corporations, municipalities will pay their wages, to the merchant man, to the shopkeeper, to pay their debt. However, it seems that when around a thousand of our municipalities take into account the shares sent to them today from the Bank of Provinces, they have no chance to pay the employee's salary or to pay the tradesman's debt. About 80,000 workers, as of today, are similar to December, and will not be able to receive their salary again. Not only do we condemn them to insufficient economic conditions, but we see the right to deprive ourselves of wages, but our municipalities owe to the public, to the tradesman, to the laborer, to the employee. This is not acceptable when considering the criteria sought in the European Convention on Autonomity, nor is it acceptable to meet the legitimate conditions of human beings at a human and conscientious point. Mr. President, as if this economic strait of municipalities is not enough, thousands of municipalities in Turkey, including the provinces of Haqkari, Van, Bitlis, Ağrı, Kars, Ardahan, Erzurum, Bingol, Dersim, Mush, are unable to produce services due to the harsh and harsh winter conditions last year. They can't shovel their snow, they can't clean their streets, they can't carry snows that are thousands of feet high on the side of the streets and streets that he cleans. With one side the economic strait, the failure of the business machine park with the other, has been enthralling for years, but we keep ourselves away from the legitimate demands of our people and citizens once again -- that Parliament, which is the address for developing solutions, will solve this problem. This is not fit for the legislature of the House. First of all, I would like to point out that in order to overcome this strait, the government and the Parliament must form a decision to determine these needs, at least in order to meet these needs, without the passing of the day, by the quick hand, by the following proposals, by the General Assembly: First, our municipalities' debt to the public must be wiped out, and 40 per cent cutbacks in the Bank of Province as public debt must be stopped. Second, the shares sent to municipalities from the Bank of Provinces, from the general budget must be increased by more than 10 per cent. The third is that the conditions for autonomy in Europe should be removed from our country's conditions, the conditions for autonomy, the conditions for autonomy should be brought down to the General Assembly at once, to our local administrations, to our municipalities, administrative autonomy, and administrative autonomy, and to be carried out by local governments with political autonomy, so that the service can be carried out by the nearest unit and the most human-oriented, the human-oriented, the human-minded, the human-minded, and the quality. None of us has the right to deprive or victimize our citizens of this need, this quality of service. From this frame, I say to all the mayors, let there be a past. I say, "We are ready to carry out our duty in order for this sacrifice to be resolved," and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0007par0072	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Now, I'm going to promise our friends who are entering the system one minute at a time. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0008par0077	Mr. President, thank you. While I have found Mr. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs here, there is a huge reaction to the number of drills in villages and towns in cities such as Burdur, Conium, Afyonkarahisar, Antalya, Ankara. Bets are placed at 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, or even 6,000 liras per counter price. As a government, do you intend to remove this application? Two: Besides, our working brothers and sisters who work in irrigation forces don't know what will happen to them... that they've been taken to the pool by the latest law. What do you think of our working brothers and sisters working in these irrigation units? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0009par0081	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0010par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. All of you will remember that 11 police officers were beaten in Istanbul's Fatih province in June in the middle of the road. A second shock came from the prosecutors following the trial of Ahmet Kocay, who had been beaten to death, on charges of resisting police action and defamation. Seven months later, the investigation was incomplete. It was a shock that all concerned prosecutors who intended to complete the case were relieved of their duties and assigned to other tasks. The case will now be passed to the 4th prosecutor, and there is no telling how much longer the time will be extended. In the same way, the case of the three people lost in custody 20 years ago could not be prepared, so the statute of limitations is at stake. The Republic we know is one of the orphans. The only profession group in front of his adjective is the prosecutor's office, because they are officers of the Prime Minister, the Minister, the police, the governor who should be able to account for it. Today, the picture in the middle is pathetic. I wanted to go public with this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0011par0088	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0012par0091	Mr. President, thank you. Due to the New Year's, Professor Mehmet Haberal, Mustafa Balbay, İlker Başbüğa, Engin Alana, Fatih Hilmiogluna, Tuncay Özkana, East Perincek, Hurşit Tolon, Hasan Iğşıt, Dursun Çiçek, and the new year cards we sent to Dursun were returned due to lack of address. They're known to all, they're affable people. Prisoners and prisoners are entitled to receive letters, letters under Article 68 of the Penalty and Security Protection Act. There is also freedom of communication under Article 22 of the Constitution. As an MP, and to the inmates inside... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they committed an abuse of duty due to the return of the sent cards. What kind of procedure will be made about these officers? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0013par0097	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0014par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs is here. So I'd like to ask you a question about something that concerns him, or rather, I'd like to bring something up. Minister, there is a Ramsar Convention where Turks sided in 1993. We're in favor of this contract for the protection of national wetlands. Now, our National Waterfield Commission, which belongs to your Ministry, held two meetings this year, one on July 24th, one on December 27th, this year. At the meeting on 24th of July, my scholar, Cırklareli, was referred to as the Ramsar area in Needledada, the longitude forests, and the Ramsar area was agreed to become the Ramsar area, but at the second meeting on December 27th, the logoz forests, these flood forests, were not assessed by the National Supplies Field Commission, the Nemrut crater lake was not assessed. Why is that? So there's a nuclear power plant project on the government's agenda about Needleda, and that's what affected the Ministry and this National Waterfield Commission? The jungles of the longos in Pinada...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0015par0104	Mr. Dibek, thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0016par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite all warnings from the Gaziantep Chamber of Architects, there were collapses at Gaziantep Castle, where no one by any chance was killed or injured. Mr. President, why haven't the necessary measures been taken, even though it was reported six months ago by the Gaziantep Chamber of Architects about the collapse? Is there any study of the cause of the collapse and if there are any problems? We wish the AKP's power to honor the views of professional rooms. I'd also like to ask Mr. Secretary that Gaziantep can't be irrigated because of the height of energy prices. So, do you intend to give a discount on energy prices so that the Gaziantep farmer can water it? Can you make it possible for our farmer to produce? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0017par0112	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0018par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, a murder has been committed in Artvin Province, Arhavi district, Kamilet Valley, while the zoning plan has not yet been approved. Minister, I want you to see that valley, it's a wonderful paradise. As of yesterday, as of today's work will begin, late last night, the company that bought the project, unfortunately, put the machinery in there, and as of this morning, the people, the people, the nation faced it. There's a bleeding wound here, the people of Kamilet Valley are in revolt, Mr. Minister. So, you need to see that geography, that valley, and you need your instructions to prevent this rape in the valley of heaven. It's always possible for sad things to happen there. All the locals, all Arhavi, are waiting for you to call this murder, which is intended to be done in Kamilet Valley. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0019par0118	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0020par0121	Mr. President, this weekend I visited Tekirdağ F 1 Tekirdağ F 2, Edirne E Type E, Edirne Type F, Silivri and Copperville Prisons. We'll bring up the prison problems there later. However, I promised to announce their screams to the execution guard, who were imprisoned there like prisoners, at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The guards say we don't own it, we, like the gendarme, wear uniforms like the police, but there's no use to us. We work on holidays, official holidays, New Year's, no overtime, they say. Being retired is what they call an execution guard and a government official, and they can't retire. They say our wages are down to one-third. On average, they never get overtime when they're working 48 or 50 hours a week. They have no right to join the union. Unfortunately, every time we go, we're embarrassed, the shirts the death guard is wearing are from the sheets. They changed their new clothes, and now when they threw them in the hot water, when they washed them... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...fanilas are two sizes shorter.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0019par0124	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0021par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say hello to the Afyonites while our fellowman, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, is at peace. Opium farmer says there's no way he's going to take advantage of the underground waters. He certainly has requests from all sides of Turkey. A measurement device is required to use underground waters or to sign a commitment. It's very difficult to put a measuring device in a well of underground water that he built, about 2,000, 3,000, 5,000 liras. The farmer is already devastated by economic policies. And so much expense. He's facing a cease-and-desist threat. What will the farmer do if his license is revoked, if he can't get water out of his own well? Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if he'd make a statement to the opium farmer about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0022par0131	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0023par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, questions and problems have been forwarded to you today. Perhaps it's a coincidence that you're here today. Five of the pumps that connect the rainwaters of all the plains of Karataş, Adana, and then pump into the sea are malfunctioning. That's under the authority of the irrigation unit, but it doesn't or doesn't. If you, as State Waterworks, could come up with a solution... because the fields were always under attack... and the last time I walked around, all the wheat was sadly dead. It's a problem that those pumps don't work. Also, our other friends have brought it up, but this matter of clocking the underground waters, I was there last week in the Hadrlı, Midik region of Adana -- our citizens, our farmers -- is causing a great deal of trouble. We'd appreciate it if you'd come up with a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0024par0138	Thank you, Mr Varli. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0025par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Some claims to the media that some of the houses belonging to Turkey's TELECOM have been sold or rented show that the institution has been increasingly emptied. I invite those involved and those responsible to be sensitive, saying that state resources and public interest should be looked after. On the other hand, serious disturbances have occurred between agricultural engineers and veterinary physicians employed under the TARGEL Project. I call upon the members of the government, particularly the Minister of Agriculture, to extend their rights and pay tribute to the government, in the matter of resolving the victims of non-assigned employees for a few days, which are excluded from the scope of Act 632.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0026par0144	Thank you, Mr. Light. Congressmans, we apologize to the other friends who entered the system first. We promise 10 people one minute, you know. Next time, try to get in early. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Congressmans, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu, oral questions in the agenda section 1, 19, 51, 52, 62, 65, 84, 94, 98, 106, 111, 118, 125, 168, 169, 173, 178, 179, 180, 181, 206, 214, 228, 243, 334, 389, 470, 471, 4772, 473, 474, 475, 476, 499, 502, 502, 527, 527, 596, 596, 696, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 697, 694, 694, 697, 694, 697, 697, 697, 697, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 697, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 697, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 697, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 697, 697, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, and 7, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694, 694 I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. Now, there are three motions to open a parliamentary investigation: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The negative results of some media shows are carefully monitored by sensitive people who are concerned about affecting and disrupting the family structure, the most fundamental element of the Turkish community, the core. The series, which corrupts society's social fabric and causes individuals to develop bad habits, is growing more and more, rather than diminishing as a result of the controversy. The Constitution is 98th in an effort to investigate and find solutions to the problems caused by media and the reality of the series, which threatens the structure of the Turkish community. In accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Turkish Council of the National Assembly, we would like to announce the opening of Parliamental research. [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Elizipt]] [[Lug]] [[Antalya]] [[Tripoli]] 8) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Manisa]] 10 Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Yozgat]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Kastamon]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Samsun]] The negative results of some media shows are carefully monitored by sensitive people who are concerned about affecting and disrupting the family structure, the most fundamental element of the Turkish community, the core. The impact of mass communication tools on human attitudes and behavior is a very powerful reality, especially today. The negative impact of some media dramas has shown that the blessing of having a family and having children in our society is being lost and that it is acceptable to have a common-law relationship. These sequences, which connect their viewers to the screen, are not subject to the necessary importance of marriage, privacy, loyalty. Unfortunately, images that are not suitable for Turkish family structure and life are on screens where educationally qualified films are virtually invisible. As a matter of fact, for young girls in school, there are sequences that allow them to walk away from the reality of life and live in a dusty world, legitimizing the reduction of friendships into even more sexual dimensions, and forcing young people to adopt a lifestyle in that direction. It is vital to the future of families and society that these publications are presented to the public's approval, in harmony with the values, expectations of society. Its duty to the media on the protection of family life is to be a instructive, enlightening guide, by fulfilling its own moral duty in the national morality, discipline and value line, which undermines the moral values of society, and leads to the destruction of its own features, avoids the publications that encourage violence, sexuality, alcohol abuse, and universal cultural values. It is clear today that there is a general dissatisfaction with television broadcasts in our country. No matter what view, no matter what political party, our country's people are uncomfortable with irresponsible television broadcasts. Television executives act on the tradition of this country, the language of its national and spiritual values, with a sense of broadcasting that ignores the mental health of our children and young people for the sake of ratings. Especially during the hours when children and housewives watch television, it is still tolerated by programs that are unqualified, inferior, personal lives, which have led to many people's deaths and attacks. It is not a coincidence that events in society have increased depending on the growth of these sequences. These series teach individuals the way to be led astray. As society's social fabric deteriorates, such shows continue to break ratings. In addition to these negatives, some directors and producers need to create and dictate productions for their own purposes by distorting the facts as part of their political thinking. The series that everyone cheats on is a family series where they don't get raped, and the mob shows are a representation of masculinity. If authorities do not bring a limit and measurement to the content of these television series, these sequences will be the root of society's decay. Television is the most effective tool of propaganda and influence today. If poison flows from there, poison, honey drops, honey affects the food of the soul of society. There are responsibilities for all children to keep young people in line. If the series eliminates public order, morality, those are the kinds of sequences that need to be eliminated or rearranged. As a result, we propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to investigate and find solutions to the problems caused by this media and show reality that threatens the structure of the Turkish community. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the problems of local media companies and their employees in Turkey, we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research on the grounds listed below, on the grounds of the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 10:01.2012 [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] 4) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Slap]] 8) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Yozgat]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mughle]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Lug]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Suleiman Nevzat Fears Not [[Isparta]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] Every day in our country has become the engine of the growing and different media, the writing and the visual media industry, the freedom of thought and expression, the development of our democracy, our very vocalism and our social structure. One important component of this sector is that we have thousands of people working with local broadcasters television, radio, newspapers, magazines and so on. Workers in media organizations have taken on a great role in serving the right freedom of information, considering the interests of society. As the ancients say, journalists are the eyes and ears of the people. The development of democracy has significant contributions to written and visual media. In lighting and warning a nation, the media itself is a force, a school, and a guide in providing its ideal food. In Turkey, more than 1,700 puts the origins of more than 1,700 local newspapers, published in 81 districts and hundreds of districts, and the local civilty newspapers, which began to be published by transitioning from the province's system to the province during the Ottoman period. The first example of this was the newspaper Tuna, which began to be published in Turkish-Bulgar in 1865. The practice has spread and since 1897, 29 newspapers have been published in Ottoman provinces outside Istanbul. Twenty-two of them are province newspapers. These newspapers, whose circulation did not exceed 500, were usually released weekly, contributing to the release of the Istanbul province, but some of them were shut down by the state for the spread of local media in Anatolia. Some of these newspapers, which lead and guide local media in Turkey, continue to publish today. However, when Law 212 was adopted years ago, it provides assurances and advantages for employees, while the number of journalists who have worked under the law for the past ten to fifteen years has been reduced. Today, most media workers, especially journalists, work under difficult conditions and low wages. This does not make a significant difference in both local and widespread media. In particular, there is injustice, imbalance, and even a chasm among the wages of people who work in high circulation, widespread media. In the same paper, it is a fact that journalists who receive astronomical wages and who make a hard living are in the majority. The Anadolu journalists of the great newspapers are not even able to pay for their expenses. Today, hundreds of local media organizations established to collect news, prepare news, and publish local, are struggling to survive and deal with significant economic challenges. The newspaper, radio and/or TV owners in economic distress, lack of sufficient credit for official ads, commercial ads and ads, the difficulty of supplying paper, which is the newspaper's raw material, and the government's lack of sufficient support for local media organs, the lack of training staff, technological incompetence, the lack of public acceptance of local media, news flow and presentation are not satisfactory, etc. They have significant problems in many different matters. On the other hand, staff around here also have serious problems. Most local media members work for low wages, unfortunately some do not even have social security. A parliamentary study is being opened to determine the measures that need to be taken by investigating the problems of local media outlets and their employees, which are briefed above. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105, which we have submitted as part of Articles 104 and 105. 11.01.2011 [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] [[40s.]] 9) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Artvin]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 13) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 23) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 24) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] The global crisis we're in is not just an economic crisis, but a structural crisis that affects every area. Governments and state institutions are the head of institutions and concepts that will be affected in such environments. The state is an institution of political embodyment, and if it works well, the people will be better served, and the people will have more confidence and commitment to their country. A radical change in bureaucracy and public structure is being observed at a time when the need for reform is at an extreme stage and global crisis conditions threaten the country. Following the government's mandate on May 3, 2011, 35 laws have been passed and the organization structures of all ministries have been changed, and even in some ministries, it has been used repeatedly. The most specific feature of the rule of law is that the state's classical review period is over, or rather, the control has taken a different form. So far, it's critical that the audit boards, which have become classical and have functions such as raising executives to the public, are actually terminated, but are not replaced. On the other hand, around 5,000 triple decrees have been issued since May 03, 2011, and 118,409 new positions have been created in the state; 3,876 investigative staffs have been formed. Meanwhile, there have been many similar career titles removed, staff complexities in the state structure, which have been considered a career title. KHK No. 666 has been redesigned and a new system has been introduced to regulations, such as senior month, base monthly, additional compensation, for years, such as pensions, but this has created a problem that has not yet been implemented and has created a significant dissatisfaction in the public. The state device, which is in need of serious reform and has not already worked well before, is even more corrupt after the decrees on the law, and the necessary reforms are not being made. With such a state mechanism and such understanding, it is not possible to bring better service to the public. For these reasons, it would be helpful to open a parliamentary investigation and to set up a research commission. Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On January 30, 3rd, 2013, hosted by the Philippines Senate and Anti-Corruption Parliamentary Global Organization 5. On the subject of the participation of Niğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, the Global Conference is presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990. All in favor...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0027par0330	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit01spe0026par0331	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0026par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal on the 19th Article of the Civil Charter was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... the proposal is not accepted. Members of parliament, now there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code; I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/978 It's 37 of my proposal for the Law to Change in Some Laws With Basic Investments and Employment Investigation. In accordance with the clause, I demand and demand that it be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. M. Akif Hamzacebi On the proposal, Istanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Mr. Hamzacebi, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0028par0016	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our proposal has been in effect since 2004, and the implementation period for the extension of Propulsion Law No. 5084, which expired on December 31, 2012, will be extended for three more years. The three-year term can be found a lot by the government, by the General Assembly, and we can also discuss that time if necessary, but our main goal is to ensure that the implementation of the Law of Instrument, which was completed by the end of 2012, is to ensure that the implementation of the implementation of the Act is implemented for a period of time. Even in the most liberal economies, valued lawmakers always intervene in the state economy, even in countries where the market economy is implemented with all its institutions. Government assistance and incentives are the most important of the government's means of interfering with the economy. There are incentives all over the country. There are regional incentives, general incentives. According to policies, both of these can be applied or applied separately, according to government-set objectives. When Law 5084 entered into force in 2004, it included 36 provinces. Later, after the demand or the recognition of various inequalitys by the government, the number of cities that have been covered has been increased from 36 to 49. The main three kinds of incentives were being implemented. First of all, employment incentives, including two incentives: the failure of the income tax freeze and the insurance premium would be paid by the employer's support by the treasury; the employee worker would not pay the employer's insurance premium. These are important incentives. Again, the second group included incentive energy support. The third group was the free allocation of assets to invest people, investors, treasured property. Energy support was removed over time, but other supports continued in various ways until the end of 2012. The main reason why we want it to continue is: yes, it will be said that the government has implemented another incentive in 2012. That's right, the government has broken down from regional incentives in 2012 and put into practice a package of incentives closer to general incentives, including regional incentives, but this package has not yet given what was expected of itself; that's the first reason why we've asked for extension of Law Article 5084. The second reason is that the economy is in the process of shrinking. Turkey's economy, which grew by 9.2 per cent in 2010 and 8.5 per cent in 2011, will now grow 3.2 per cent if it holds targets by the end of 2012, so the government has hit the brakes. The first quarter growth of 2012 was 3.4 per cent, while in the third quarter, this growth was reduced to 1.6 per cent. It's hard for businesses to survive when the brakes are on. Many of the provinces expect such an arrangement, and many of our provinces expect that this encouragement will be extended for a while longer, from Tripoli to Kahramanmarash, Malatya, Vana, Şanlıurfa, Adıyaman, and Adıyaman. This is an urgent matter. The incentive has created a particular job in the economy by the end of 2012, and let's face it, a total of 76,000 people have been employed at work, women's employment has made progress again. Now, to end this like a knife, to confront these businesses with problems, economic crises, is to cause them to close down, and to trigger unemployment. I give this to the General Assembly, and to your discretion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We can talk about the time again, but I salute all of you with love and respect, thinking it's good to extend it.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0029par0025	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On the motion, Mr. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP... Mr. Canalioğlu, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0030par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have made a commitment to the amendment of the Law with the Investigation of Investments and Employment and some Laws to be taken directly into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, as it is known, 766,672 people are benefiting from Propulsion Act 5084. Most 766,672 people will be unemployed if the incentive law is not implemented or extended. For example, there will be 43,769 workers working at my own constituency, Tripoli, who will be 10,310 put in their workplace at 2.018, 33,459, and 43,769 workers, including men. Therefore, on -31/12/12/2012 - Promotion Law 5084 must be extended. The following is: If this law is not extended or not introduced in a new form, businesses that employ over 10 workers will not benefit from the incentive reduction when they pay the Social Security Agency bonuses by the end of February. Because of the law, which has been extended twice, it is said that businesses rely on incentives and invest in them. Maybe it's true, maybe the owners didn't invest, but they did rely on incentives and took jobs and contributed to employment. And as a result of that, in our region, especially in our region, where the population has been reduced due to migration, unemployment, development rankings of our region are below 30 percent; and the fact that our national products have come to a standstill of tea, nuts, tobacco and animalism, and that investments such as the railway, shipyard, logistical center that our region has been waiting for have yet to know at what stage is in the region is causing chaos. And as you can see, teachers in the waiting process, waiting for appointment in February, water products engineers, veterinary engineers, agricultural engineers, and subcontractors waiting for the appointment under TARGEL are in great expectation. Dear lawmakers, 49 counties benefit from this incentive law, and in 49 counties, the AKP's, the ruling party's MP number is 132, dear friends. If 132 lawmakers do not extend this incentive law or make employers and workers comfortable in a new way, how will they go to the electoral zones? Now, my dear friends, I know you're not all listening, you're talking. This is similar to this: It is similar to that of Dursun and Basal. The foundation says Dursuna says: "Stop, my servant asks me for 30 liras every day." Dursun turned around and said: "What's Basin doing with this money?" I don't know, I'm not giving it to him. Now, we're bringing you suggestions, we're bringing you proposals, but you're ignoring them, and I don't know, I'm not. You're bringing them to the point. Dear friends, this is also similar to: You know, universities have been established all over our country, higher schools have been opened in our major counties, faculty has been opened, and the brave children of our Anatoliah have come here as students, to these universities. The number of restaurants grew here with him coming to college, and now when the students went to the restaurant, the system came in: less dry, less rice; as well as a pitcher of water and lots of cut water, sliced up, trying to feed them with bread in a basket, and we still have students today. However, I say that your understanding, if these things are not taken into account -- less democracy, less justice, less human rights, less freedoms, too much authority, too much government pressure, no incentives, comes into the understanding of friends, which, of course, the AKP power will collapse in the chest. Therefore, surely, I offer the attention of the High Assembly, and salute you with my love and respect, that this motion should be brought directly to the attention of the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0031par0041	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the part of the agenda. In the presentations section, I've been reading oral questions that Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, wants to answer together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Home Secretary. 19/07/2011 The painting of the statue of Ataturk in Cumhuriyet Square, which was made by Kars Governorate, is poured out, and the stones on the floor are poured out. This monument, where hundreds of people pass by each day, does not give a good image. 1) The paintings of the Ataturk statue in Kars Cumhuriyet Square are flowing, and the stones on the floor are falling off themselves. Is there going to be a re-organisation and environmental arrangement of the monument? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. 20/7/2011 All the canals in the canals that pass through Halitpaşa neighborhood, which belongs to the DSI in Kars, are a nest of germs. The DSI channels contain garbage instead of water. The result of inequity and lack of carelessness is that our countrymen complain that they can't use their water channels because of the insensitiveness of our producer who's waiting for water in the field. 1- When will the water channels that pass through Halitpaşa neighborhood, which belongs to the DSI, be cleared in Kars, and when will water be poured out of the canals? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 10/10/2011 1-What areas in the Düzce province does the Grand Emelen project cover? 2- How high will the water level be in the containment field? 3-How soon will construction work be completed and what's the schedule? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 10.10.2011 1- What are the name price, criteria, and amounts of the areas that remain within the Grandad project? 2-Battle is an earthquake zone. What measures are involved, considering the earthquake? 3-Battle is a nut area. Some of the land that remains in the area of the Grandmalen project is the land that individuals have used to produce nuts for 50 years, and it appears in the treasure. What's the legal status of these fields in the process of possession for those who use them? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forest and Water, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 10/10/2011 1. HOW do the HESECs established on the Seyhan River in the Adana region affect the inhabitants of the region? 2. How can locals benefit from the electricity produced? Can't you get cheap/lower electricity? 3. HOW do living creatures in waterbeds are affected by the removal of the waters of the hens through closed tunnels? 4. HOW and in what way do the HESECs influence wildlife? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forest and Water, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 10/10/2011 1. In Adana Province, forest fires have been increasing in recent years. What is the cause of these increases? 2. The local people are anxious about the safety of life and property through fires. How will the unrest of the locals be resolved? 3. What measures will you take as ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. 13/10/2011 What is the purpose of the loan of the 29,634 square metres of land located in the district of Serik, Antalya Province, in the Gebiz village of Ataturk, Turkey? For what purpose did the area, which is already covered in pine trees, have been rented for 29,634 square meters? Is there going to be any random installation on this land you're renting? If not, for what purpose did the landlords and corporations rent the land? What's this land you're renting for our government? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forest and Water, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 13/10/2011 1) It has been said by locals that bridges and vents are not healthy because of the Heshan River in the Adana region. What's the degree of truth? 2) What measures will you take as ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I wish to assure you that my following question will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. The question is: Amasya, in the provinces of Tokat, there is a study to rejuvenate forests. These studies were given to private firms on behalf of your Ministry. Are these studies being audited enough by your ministry? How much is the ministry paid for this service? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. Kütahya is a village in Simav district between Eğir village and Yemişli village in which there is a dispute between the two settlements; 1) There has been a dispute between the villages mentioned in 135, 159, 160, 163, 164, 165, 167, 168, 169, 170 and 172. Who are the cutouts that have been made in the lu forest compartments so far? 2) What is the reason for conflict in the areas mentioned in 2011? 3) What has been done by your ministry so far? 4) It is the 40th Law of the Forest of the Forested Territories. Can the dispute be resolved between the residents of Eğir village and Yemisli district in accordance with the Article 288 of your Ministry's Declaration? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu. 24/10/2011 1) There have been 3 or 4 forest fires in the province of Kozan, Adana. What is the cause of these increases? 2) The local people are anxious about the safety of lives and property by fires. How will the unrest of the locals be resolved? 3) What measures will you take as ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. Sewers flowing through the stream threaten public health because the Eshkinoz creek in Istanbul, Albanian village, Eunuchköy, Hospital and Station neighborhoods is not reformed. And because of the scum in the stream, there's always flies and pests. What measures will you take in the immediate restoration of this stream that threatens the health of the people of Eunuchköy and causes epidemics? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. Sewers flowing through the stream threaten public health because the Eshkinoz creek in Istanbul, Albanian village, Eunuchköy, Hospital and Station neighborhoods is not reformed. And because of the scum in the stream, there are always flies and harmful vermin. What measures will you take in the immediate restoration of this stream that threatens the health of the people of Eunuchköy and causes epidemics? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 1/11/2011 It has been 950 years since it was conquered by Sultan Alparslan of Kars Ani on 16 August 1064. The landscaping of the city must be done. From now on, cultural tourism will be very effective in our country, and for cultural tourism, all the world's governments are organizing new tours. 1) The city of Kars Ani will receive its share of cultural tours starting in the coming years. Is there going to be a landslide around the city of Ani for that? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu. 31/10/2011 In the centre of Ardahan Lakee, the lake is also contaminated by the smell of the stream, which has been poured out by dairyers in the stream along the road to the Lake, along with the lake's Hossain Gedik Elementary School and Lake's Garage. 1) Since the people who come to the health clinic for treatment are passing through Ardahan Lake district, the children, especially on the way to school, and the people in the garage, where hundreds of passengers are stopping by every day, are uncomfortable with this stench and the stench. Will this stream be reformed or covered? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 31/10/2011 Every year in the summer, the forests are incinerated. The slopes facing the Mediterranean were burning and burning for days. There are always fires in the Mediterranean, the Aegean, and the Mugla region. As long as we don't know the importance of the forest, the value of the green, it will continue to burn. 1) How many hectares have burned down in the last five years? What are the areas and provinces, the cause of the fires? 2) How much will be budgeted for putting out forest fires in the ministry's budget for the immediate extinguishing of the help of the fire from now on? 3) How many saplings have been planted in burning forest areas? When are we going to plant saplings in places that aren't planted? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. The Adatepe Dam, which continues to build on the River of the Sky, is said to have been slow-moving due to lack of funding. 1) Is there a shortage of funds for the continuing production of Adatepe Dam? If so, when are you planning on solving the grant problem? Do you have any work to do? 2) What year do you plan to open Adatepe Dam to the ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. Guided Watering Canal studies, which include the GAP, which will allow for the watering of 59,765 hectares when completed, appear to be slow progress. 1) When do you plan to open the Guided Watering Channel, which is expected to provide significant contributions to Heromarash agriculture? 2) How many kilometers has the canal construction been planned and how many kilometers have been completed so far? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. The Cetintepe Dam is expected to provide significant contributions to the watering problem of the Kahramanmarash farmer. 1) When do you plan to open the Cetintepe Dam by completing it? 2) How many hectares will serve when the dam on the Skysu River is completed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. In terms of increasing the agricultural production of Kahramanmarash (heromarash) and especially maintaining rural development, irrigation projects are of great importance. 1) Kale six I. Hello, Central Ceyhan Kartalkaya II. When do you plan to open the welcome, the Goofy, and the Menseminated Watering Projects? At what stage do the studies continue? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 24/11/2011 Yours truly. 1) Do you know the importance of the Seyhan Plain project to the Çukurova region and to our country? 2) If you know that you've been in power for nine years, why haven't you completed such an important project in this time? 3) What kind of work do you intend to do to finish the mentioned project? 4) When do you plan to finish the project in Çukurova? 5) When this project is completed, how much income will increase to the Çukurova region? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. 30/11/2011 In Ardahan Province, Lake Crazy dies every day. Besides being the largest living lake in Turkey, it is the third largest lake after Lake Van and Salt. For 30 years, the area had only spotted trout and mirrored carp in the Fugitive Mountains, following the local people's ban on hunting. In recent years, water has been drained from the Arpachay Dam, leaving the wrong fish eggs in the lake, and the streams flowing into the lake along with the mud, causing the lake to lack oxygen and die. 1) Ardahan has been the third of Turkey since centuries. The great lake gives life to the region. The land is the livelihood of our people. Urgent measures must be taken to prevent the lake's destruction. Will the mud be prevented from flowing through the lake at first, and will new measures be taken to increase the lake's oxygen? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. According to State Officers Act 657 of public institutions and institutions, the staff they employ is obliged to operate disabled by 3% of the entire staff of the relevant institution or organisation. 1) In 2011, what number of disabled staff employees were employed by your Ministry and Ministry institutions and organisations, according to Law No. 657, and with the number of disabled personnel that were supposed to be employed? 2) Under Law 657, does your ministry and your ministry have a disability deficit under the obligation to employ disabled personnel? If so, how much is the lack, and have the demands for the removal of this deficiency been forwarded to the State Staff President? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. Kahramanmarash Afşin County has many problems with pending investments. 1) Do you have any work on the Karakuz dam? When do you plan to open this dam, which is of great importance to the future of our county? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 28/12/2011 Ardahan is a province in which we can grow trees and qualify for the forest. In our province is Lake Crazy and Lake Aktaş. We need a better view of our lakes with trees around them. 1-When will there be a work to be done and a work to be done to plant the surrounding Lake of Crazy and Lake Aktaş, which lies within the borders of Ardahan Çirka district? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. As it is known, in the Simav earthquake, which occurred on 19/05/2011, the drinking water network in the district of Simav, Kütahya Province, has been severely damaged and inadequate. Simav County has asked about the renovation of the drinking water network; 1) Has there ever been any work done by your Ministry on renovating the drinking water networks that were damaged by the reported earthquake? 2) If it has been done, what concrete steps have been taken in the study? 3) What is the reason why the Simav County drinking water network has not been renovated so far? 4) Is the restoration of the water network that has become inevitable in our local district possible for the restoration of its 2012 programme? 5) How much funding has been set aside by your ministry for this purpose? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I wish to assure you that my following question will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Are the flood-guards and routes between the Slap-Turhal and the Green Mills finished? When do you plan to complete the missing? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. A 144-digit village in the city of Yozgat, located in the ongoing Musabeyli dam pond, has been nationalized by 34 digits of DSI and no transactions have been made for the remaining 110 digits. There has been no concrete development in the peasant's request to move to the thickness of the desert. Is there going to be a formalization process in the village for the present 110 digits? If it is to be done by which agency, when will it be done? Do you have a study in the village to move the peasant to the thickness of the desert after the demographic? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Our Yozgat province is an agricultural town, and most of its farmland cannot be watered. The Project We Believed was developed by the DSI General Directorate in our Yerköy district to partially water agricultural land, but so far there has been no development in the project. 1) Where are the works on the Yazgat district of Yerköy, Wandalli, Belkavak, Sulejmanlı villages in 1962, and on the construction of the Faithdik dam? 2) Is Yerköy part of your Ministry's 2012 investment programme? If he's on the program, how many years do you plan to finish this dam? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. At what stage is the construction of Yenice Dam, considered for drinking water in the District of Yozgat? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Reports are in local media about the construction of the Sonçuk dam god, which is supposed to be built in Yozgat Province, Kullıyan district. Has the tender date been set for the construction of the Son's dam, which is supposed to be held in Bosqualiyan district? When do you plan to finish the dam that was supposed to be built? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. When do you plan to complete the ongoing Musabeyli Dam to meet the need for drinking water in the province of Yozgat? Is the date for the service of Musabeyli Dam set? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. At what stage is the construction of the Hasbek Dam, thought to be built in the district of Sarıkaya, Yozgat Province? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. According to the 2010 KPSS report, there have been claims by your Ministry of Forest Engineers that many forest engineers have been victimised waiting to be appointed because their appointment has not yet been carried out; 1) What are the total numbers of forest engineers and their share of your total staff still in your Ministry? 2) How many forest engineers still have a 2010 KPSS document? 3) According to your ministry's 2010 KPSS results, how many engineers have been appointed? 4) How many engineers were planned to be taken according to the reported results? When will these purchases be made? 5) What is your ministry's 2012 program on this subject? How many forest engineers are considered to be employed in 2012? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 1) Where are the work on the Bahçik dam in Akdağmadeni district of Yozgat Province? 2) Is your Gardeny dam-making ministry on the 2012 investment programme? If he's on the program, how many years do you plan to finish this dam? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. My constituency is now largely worn out because the irrigation canals in Çukurova have been opened for many years. Today, the big canals we call the large, coating canals break out every day. Concrete irrigation ducts are broken, poured out, and unnecessary water has victimized our farmers, preventing our farmers from plowing, planting, turning the field into a lake of water. There must be a solution to renovating or repair the irrigation channels. 1) Do you have any work on renovating or repairing irrigation channels in our country and especially in the Çukurova region? 2) Do you provide tools or material assistance to irrigated or repaired these irrigation channels? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Victims are being inflicted by the DSI and the Ministry by removing the water prices from their hands through Law 6172. While water prices are being determined by people living in that area, who know the problems and problems of that area, there is a reasonable, logical conclusion that now the people who don't know the area will increase the losses. 1) Do you know about the problems in identifying water prices? 2) Will you have a study of the immediate solution to the problem? 3) Is there a solution to pay partial or instalment for our farmers who owe money to the irrigation troops? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Since the drainage channels in my constituency, Çukurova, have been opened for many years, it is now largely full. Some channels have been cleared, but some channels have not been cleaned for years. Since irrigation units have no power to clean these channels and have no infrastructure, state waterworks must be cleaned and served by farmers. 1) Do you agree that drainage channels in our country and especially in the Çukurova region are full and need to be cleaned? 2) Do you provide tools or material assistance to the Watering Corps to clean up these channels? 3) Is there a ministry's work to be done for this purpose? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. In response to the completion of the Seven Eye Dam in the Adana region, the irrigation systems have yet to reach a conclusion, despite their promises. By the ministry, but if this project was tendered, the irrigation systems should have been launched by now. If this project is to be completed in 2014, if it is to be brought to life, then the underground irrigation pipes and concrete canals will have to be invested in the region as soon as possible. 1) When will the watering system of the Seven Eye Dam become life? Ceyhan, Misis, Kozan, Imamoglu... when will these lands be watered, which are very Muslim, very good for every crop you sow? 2) When will the tender be held and when will it be completed on condition? How much funding has been earmarked by your Ministry for this purpose? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. As part of the 1000 Pond Project in 1,000 Days, run by the State Water Affairs General Directorate, 1) When will the planning and project tender be held? 2) The Niğde-center Bay Pond Project is said to have ruled that the Sheep Pond was not watered. Do you have any healing efforts for the continuation of the Sheep pond? What are you going to do? 3) The pond was completed at the Nüğde-Turkish Rivers and Watering Project. When will the construction of the Daring Watering Canal in the project be completed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. As part of the 1000 Pond Project in 1,000 Days, run by the State Water Affairs General Directorate, 1) When will construction tenders be held for Niğde Central Daggered Pond and Watering and Farm Free Pond and Watering Projects? 2) When will the planning and project of Bor Guide Pond and Watering be completed and when will the construction tender be held? 3) Under the study of the Niğde Province Pond and Water Water Projects, is the 1,000 Pond Project in 1,000 days starting at the end of the 1000th day, or will all of these projects be completed in 1,000 days? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 02/02/2012 The Council of Ministers' Decision 2011/2632 and the General Directorate of Meteorology have been restructured, and the directorship of 145 meteorological stations in the rural community has been shut down, including a total of 30 branch managers, eight district managers, and six branch managers each within each district directorate. According to information, meteorological personnel have been found to be concerned that the newly established directorates will not be assigned to non-commercial high school graduates. 1) What units will perform the duties of the closed station managers? Do you think this practice will succeed? 2) Is it true that there will be no appointment for those who have not graduated from meteorology and vocational high school? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 25/1/2012 For many generations, the Kura River has given life to Ardahan and Ardahanlı for many generations. It wants to move to another land. Why do these projects come to the lake, through Ardahan, through Ardahan, and out of Ardahan, to Artvin, without having had the HES dams built on the Ardahan River, which is the lifeblood of Ardahan? Let's take a look at the HES projects in other parts of Turkey. Electricity production of the Kura-Pod Energy Group project 892,27,000 kwh, Şahin Değ. And HES (Bitlis) 64.020.00 kwh, Gapdaroğlu Değ. HES (Bitlis) 74,000,000 kwh and similar projects are smaller than Kura Mass projects. 1) Can a plant be built in its own bed with its own capacity before the Ardahan Kura Mass Project moves in? It's a clear statement. If this project is done in Ardahan, Ardahan and Ardahan will rise, do you plan to build a plant and HES project on this route? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 7/2/2012 The Ardahan Province circuit road section and the roadside of the Tali village routes must be used for a long planting operation on the edges and on the side of the road. Creating windscreens to reduce the negative effects of drying winds will also have a positive impact on beekeeping activities in the Ardahan region, as well as on the agricultural areas on the side of the road. 1) Since Ardahan will reduce the effects of negative nature, such as roads and village roads that connect the counties, particularly the freeways, and trees around them, and in the beekeeping season, such as frosts and crannies, will be planted on the side of the road? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. During the construction of the Multial Dam in Tekirdağ, the village of Sharköy and Malkara has been displaced by farmers from their move and fields. The villages of Sharköy in the dam basin must also be used to water the villages of Sofuköy, Yayaaç, Yeniköy and Gölguk, and the villages of Malkara, Emirali, Ballı, Esendik, Çedere, Çınarlıdere. 1) Will you be working to help Tekirdağ, of the Multial Dam, take advantage of the watering activity in a way that includes more and more and more benefits from watering our farmers who have lost their income instead of watering their farms with an increase of efficiency per acre? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 10/02/2012 About 3,000 forest engineers took the KPSS test on 10/07/2010. In the meantime, there have been no appointment of forest engineers except for a few people. However, in 2006 and 2008, the number of forest engineers who took the KPSS test and were appointed was close to 1,000. 1) Is the number of forest engineers currently in your Ministry sufficient? 2) Is there a forest engineer who was recruited after 10/07/2010? What number is there? 3) Has the Ministry of Finance been applied for a staff of forest engineers? 4) On 10/07/10, will the appointment of forest engineers take the exam? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question is Forest and Water Affairs Minister Sn. I demand that Veysel Eroglu respond verbally. 15/02/2012 Antalya Kemer district, Ulupınar village, Çıralı 1. It is part of the area and the South Antalya Tourism area and is assigned to the unmovable Forest Sports Club 397 parcels of forest ownership. This region has been chosen twice as the best beach in the world without harming its natural nature and the local population. This area is a breeding ground for endangered sea turtles. Has it been investigated for any damage to the breeding area when its nature, green, and endangered sea turtles were built into the breeding ground? If so, what are the results of these studies? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 12/02/2012 1) How many tons of explosive materials will be used in the field of wildlife development near the thermal plant in the floodbrain? 2) How will animals and nature be affected by these studies? Who authorized road work using tons of explosives? 3) With this thermal plant operational, hundreds of tons of coal will be burned per hour. What about the thousands of tons of ash that will come out in a day because of these burns? 4) Are you aware of these studies as ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 14/02/2012 1) Where will water be used for cooling purposes at the thermal plant in the floodbrain? 2) Is the Skysu River threatened, which runs near the thermal plant and is one of the main sources of the Forkan Dam? 3) What heavy metals will blend into the water to cool the thermal plant, and where will the water be poured out with these heavy metals that pose a major threat to human life? 4) Are you aware of these studies as ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 15/02/2012 1) Do you know that our forests, which have been damaged by the continued landslide and landslides of HESECs in Adana and its counties, have been destroyed? 2) How will you proceed with these landslides? Do you plan to plant saplings instead of disappearing forests? 3) What kind of work will your ministry have on this matter? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 14/02/2012 1) How many thousands of tons of ash and hundreds of thousands of cubic metres of heavy metal from the thermal plant in the Floodbrain will affect the animals living in the wildlife development area in Dagger Creek, which is contaminated with heavy metals? 2) How will UNESCO tolerate such pollution? 3) What heavy metals will blend into the water to cool the thermal plant, and where will the water be poured out with these heavy metals that pose a major threat to human life? 4) Are you aware of these studies as ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. 1) Kastamon-Ankara Road, mile 20. When will the construction of the Broken Dam project, which is supposed to be built on Blackwater Tea, be launched? 2) How far along is the Oyrak Dam project, which is supposed to be held in the Oyrak position on the Kastamonu-Devrek road and in the arms? When is the project supposed to be finished? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. Since the meteorological measuring station is located within the settlement in our heromarash province, the measurements can't be made healthy. 1) Do you have a study in the western part of the city to set up an automated weather observatory? Are you going to work on that? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu. Yours truly. Our central district has the biggest problem with drinking water. The yellow-beautiful Group Drinking Water Project, which will supply 26 units in our central district, is not being implemented due to lack of resources. 1) When do you intend to solve the drinking water problem of our central county? Do you plan to send $4,000,000 worth of resources for the project? 2) In addition, 10,000,000 euros is needed for the adequate and networked water supply of problematic units throughout our province. Will you be working on that? Thank you. To answer verbal questions, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0032par0516	Mr. President, I have been promised to answer verbal questions. I salute you all. Sir, first, the answer to the main oral question motion asked by Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/37): The maintenance and repair project for the Ataturk statue in Kars Province, Cumhuriyet Square, was taken to the Investment Programme 2013 and completed maintenance and repair within the year. My answer to Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/108)'s main oral question motion is: The Kars trout Watering Facility, which was built and operated in 1973, is watered by 1,150 hectares of agricultural land, but over time, because of the expansion of the city centre, the irrigation channels remained in the settlement and were created by settlers to intervene in the canal, with home and animal waste connections. Due to this situation, the municipality of Kars has been notified in writing that sewers and wastes have negative impact on the environment and public health, that the sewer network line should be built and dumpsters should be placed in the area, and the issue is being monitored. In addition, the DSI Kars Regional Directorate does periodic root canal cleaning. İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkeskin (6/203) answers the main question motion: The villages of Düzce Province, Hamascık, Ninedeğrmen, Iğdır, Harmankaya, Esentepe, Grandmelen and Yeşiltepe are under absolute protection. The dam's maximum water dens are estimated to remain in the area of 18,615 in a 300-metre absolute protection band, with a set of 110 meters. Project Grandmalen, Great Istanbul II. The Merhale Drinking Water Project is planned in the fourth phase of the Melen system and will meet Istanbul's need for water by 2071. The first phase is run by our DSI General Directorate, with eleven separate business packages, consisting of Isale lines, promotional centers, the Bosbo tunnel, the drinking water treatment plant, the consolidated, tunnel and energy supply system. As part of the melen system, all jobs were completed, and on 12/12/2012, the time was taken into operation at twelve past twelve. The Melen Project was launched to be built in the second phase of the Melen Dam, which was planned to be built in the second phase of the Melen Project, and was intended to be completed in 2016. My answer to İstanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes (6/204 main)'s question motion is: The Grandmelen Project will be nationalised at approximately 1,715 hectares of land in the Melen Dam lake area. According to the 11th and 12th Articles of the Publicisation Act 2942 in determining the cost of publicisation: the value of the land, whether moving or the source, according to its position and conditions in the history of nationalization and the use of it as it is, is appreciated according to its net income; in the plots, according to the sale of precedents before the adoption day, and in the structures, according to the official unit prices and the cost of construction in the history of publicisation, and the cost of the construction. The Melen Dam project was carefully examined with seismic parameters, and by using these parameters, the recurrence of the dam body was designed to be designed not to collapse according to the possible maximum earthquake acceleration, which is 2.475 years old. Gene, under 2/B, the exact cost of nuts, building-on-the-strength deposits will be paid to the rightful owners. For this reason, the DSI General Directorate will first be held and sued by the Treasury and Forestry Directorate. The Treasury will be paid by the court, according to the ruling, that the land belongs to the people, who have the nuts on it, and the building on it. Since the property of the land belongs to the Treasury, the ground will not be paid for, but it will be paid for. My answer to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/236)'s main oral question motion is: In the feasibility study of HESEs, the planning of these projects to affect any settlement or, of course, life in the construction and business phases, if it is not technically possible, the planning of settlements and, of course, life is based on the least affected, and there is no negative situation for citizens who are working on agriculture. Electric energy produced in HES projects is not only for locals living in the area of HES. It is for the supply of electricity for the entire country. With the number of HES projects increasing, electricity production costs will decrease, and electricity prices will also decrease in parallel. In any HES project, all of the water in the creek bed is not allowed in the transmission tunnels. The water is left in the creek bed for the rest of your life. With HES projects established, there will be no negative situation for wildlife with living creatures living in waterbeds. My response to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/241)'s main oral question motion is that, given the statistics of forest fire in Adana province over the past five years, there has been no increase in number and amount of burning space, as opposed to previous years. The number of personnel assigned to the first responders in our Adana Forest Regional Directorate is about 1,500, and teams are equipped with increasing amounts of equipment and machine equipment each year. Forest fires are primarily covered by the safety of the people's lives and property, and the measures set out in the annual fire-action plans are taken by our organization. Anthalia MP Mr. Arif Bulut (6/295) has responded to the main oral question motion (6/295) of the forest area (6/295): The special wooding area of the Forest Law No. 6831 was assigned to Kemal Bashak (also) for forty-nine-nine years, including the area of broken forest, which is 10,415 square meters and 19,219 square meters in the forest, with a special measure of 29,634 square meters in the forest. Alan, there are only eight redwoods, which are covered with living cloths, which are made of machi species. According to the Woodworks Charter, it is not allowed to be built in private wooding grounds in forest areas. Therefore, it is not possible to build any random facilities in the field. For maintenance and protection only, one temporary hangar, warehouse, and field guard are allowed to be kept on all kinds of air conditions where employees can be sheltered, materials can be stored on soil or concrete floor, without foundation, prefabrik, disposable material, and after the allocation has ended, there will be no more than 40 square meters to be removed. My answer to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/320)'s main oral question motion is: The Ministry's opinion on bridges, vents and art structures must be taken under the rules of the law and is responsible for the structures conducted without consulting our opinion. So far, no issue has been faced with bridge and vent structures, and no complaint has been filed against the citizens regarding Adana. My response to Mr. Reshat True (6/324)'s main oral question motion is: Private companies have not been given jobs in the enlargement work. In the year 2011 and 2012, 374 hectares of youth work were made for forest villagers and paid $416,388 for the work. In 2011-2012, the Amasian Forest Regional Management Directorate paid $145,774 for the development of 117.6 hectares to the forest villagers. The audits are conducted by technical staff of the Amasian Forest Regional Directorate and the relevant forest management departments. My response to Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Izwar (6/343)'s oral question motion was made in 2005 by the Yeshlı district and Yeshli Agricultural Development Co-op. In addition, Sections 135, 159 and 160 were provided by the European Agricultural Development Co-opperative in the production work that was to be done during 2012. Productions in sections 168, 169, 170 and 172 were performed in 2005, according to populations and distances between Eğir and Yeğirian agricultural development co-ops. The production of compartments 163, 164, 165 and 167 has not been built in the last 20 years because they claim that both settlements are within their common borders. Parts 163, 164, 165 and 167 have been disputed because they claim to remain within the borders of their property and do not accept the existing borders. The director of the Kütahya Forest Regional Director, Executive and Marketing Branch Director of Simav Forest Management Director, Simav Forest Management Director and Manager of the Director of the Forest Management, was examined at the site of the deployment and launched at 28/4/2011 at the site and the Vice President and Vice President of the Farm Development of the Eğir Village, in this frame, were to go to the site with the President of Agriculture Development and Vice President and Vice President of the Forest, and to explore conflicting divisions in the fields and to resolve the production business of the Simav Forest Manager and co-ops if the Law is solved by co-opts, if the Law of Agricultureal Development and the Law remains unrestributed by the Law of Forestry, in the same way as its productions in the area, in the area, in the area of the area and in the area, in the area of the area, in the area of the area of the area, in the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the Eğir's Village Village, in which is 1688, 1688, 1688. The production of the lu-sections is indicated to be the subject of the tevziat. A total of 8,532 cubic metres in the four compartments, the amount of stamp on the obelisk body volume, when the population and distance are distributed with respect to the population and distance, drops the amount of 6,127 cubic metres to the Yemisli village, 2.405 cubic metres to the Eğir village. There's never been a cooperative or a peasant demanding a job. If there is a job request, the production work, as well as the rights of both cooperatives, will be signed with conditions. The 40th article of Forest Law 6831 is referred to as the Law on the Occupation of the Forest and Article 288, the production of the forest work is primarily referred to as the development of forest villages in the workplace and to the villagers working in the forestworks around the workplace, and to the workers' distances at their workplace and to the labor forces. In this case, 135, 159 and 160 of these compartments. Productions in the lu-sections have been assigned to the Yemisian Agricultural Development Co-op because of its stay within the border of the Yeşli region. The disputes in the work of the divided sections, the 40th article of the Law of the Forest, and the construction work of Article 288, according to the provisions of the production work in conflicting places, can be done if the residents of the village of Eğir and Yeshli agree. If it is not accepted, the production work in these compartments will be carried out as an obelisk sale. My response to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/354)'s main verbal question motion will be: When the Kozan Forestry Management Office assesses forest fires so far, it will be seen that there has been no increase in recent years, as there has been no increase. The number of personnel assigned to the first responders is approximately 1,500. The teams are equipped with an increasing amount of equipment, machine equipment, each year. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu (6/370) answers to the main oral question motion of the municipality's 6/370): In the third chapter of Metropolitan Municipality Law No. 5216, titled Mission, Authority and Responsibilities, building, and operating other facilities for this reason, ا Metropolitan City, district and first-level municipalities' duties, and the first-level municipalities' duties and obligations under the subtitles of the first-level municipalities, the duty, authority and obligations of the major city municipalities and (r) have been listed in order to carry out the service of water and sewer services, setting up and other facilities for this; in the end of the development of the development of the city's water; in order to prepare for large disasters and other facilities. (i.e.e.e.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g. However, after the flood of 9/9/2009, on 6/10/2009, our DSI General Directorate, İstanbul Water and Canalization Administration -İSİ - and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality officials' meeting in AKOM have decided to be responsible for the rehabilitation, cleaning and operating of Eshkinoz Creek. According to Eshkinoz Deresi's Law on Human Health and the nature of the necessary measures to be taken, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality Law on Water and Sewerization Administration No. 5216 and it is under the jurisdiction of İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality and İSKİ. According to Environmental Law 2872, the duties of İstanbul Directorate of Environment and Urbanism are out of our Ministry's jurisdiction. In this regard, both sewage and waste water treatment are carried out by the ISI. Mr. Suleiman Çelebi had the same question. Since I answered that, I repeat the same answer. My response to Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/497)'s main oral question motion is: The identification and study of appropriate areas in Ani, Kars Province, has been launched, and there have been attempts to obtain permission from relevant institutions to conduct a deforestation study, as a large part of the area is within historical and ancient sites. Planting was completed at the end of 2012 on a road route divided 30km between Kars Central and Ani City. My response to Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/499)'s oral question motion is not the source of the bet, but the archer's arc. The archer's arch gets its water supply from the Medieval Creek, which has been reformed by our DSI General Directorate. Apart from the violent periods, the water, usually controlledly backed, is used for the evacuation of sewage waste from the lake district, and is at risk for the health of the locals. Attempts have been made in this regard, and the municipality has been informed that it must be reformed by the municipality of Lake. It has been recommended to have a caped outlet for the control of the water behind it. My response to Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/511)'s main oral question motion is: In the past five years, 51,811 hectares of forest have been damaged in the fires in our country between 2008 and 12 years. The estimated budget for fighting forest fires in 2013 is 600m euros. The burning areas have been wooded within the year, and 130 million seedlings have been planted in areas damaged by the fire, as well as in seeding. My answer to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/520)'s main question motion is: The ongoing Adatepe Dam has no financial problems and the body and its full battle has been completed. Work continues on the dipsavac and relay pathways. The construction of the dam has been ordered by me to complete and retain water this year, followed. My response to Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's oral motion (6/523) by Heromarash: DSI General Directorate continues to build the first part of the construction date, although the completion date is 14/12/2013, which hopefully continues intensively to be completed by the end of this May. He doesn't have a grant problem. The main channel length in the tender is approximately 38 kilometers [38 km] of the construction of section 1. So far, the physics of the work is 80 percent, and the rest will be finished by the end of May. My response to Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's (6/524) main verbal question motion: The main storage system for the Adıyaman Skysu Car Project in the first phase of the Göksu Tea is completed as the co-op project for Cetintepe Dam, which was planned on its main arm. This is a really important project. On 25/12/2012, bids for the tender have been received, and the tender process continues, with the project's planning report predicting construction of dams and facilities within six years. It's the biggest dam in the region. The Adıyaman Göksu Carnation Project, which is part of the GAP projects, will be provided with the Cetintepe Dam, which is planned for phase one, and will provide the watering of 70.968 hectares in the region. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/525) is the deputy of Kahramanmarash. The Merhale Project was completed in 2011 to water 7.734 hectares of the Afşin Plain in southern Elbistan district of Kahramanmarash Province. Central Ceyhan Kartalkaya II. The Merhale Project was aimed at watering 10,983 hectares outside Narlı and Kahramarash plains, which had been built on Aksu Tea in previous years and in operation. With the supply of sunday and chirping pumps, the watering of 4.934 hectares will be provided, which was tendered on 25/12/98, and 14 per cent physical. The irrigation construction was scheduled to be completed in 2015. The Yavalı Project is intended to water 1,680 hectares of land. The project's water source -- you know, we've finished -- is in the business, and the project of watering the Ayvalite Dam has been tendered and continued on 12/7/2008. The project was completed at the end of 2012, and the construction tender will be held on 8 February 2013. And that's really great news for Heromarash. Middle Ceyhan Menzelet II. The 144 million kilowatts per year, in full development of the average irrigation, and the production of 248 million kilowatts of energy in Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep, Hatay Province, a total of 95.750 hectares per year, were targeted at the power plant, which it obtained with 74 million cubic metres of water to store on Ceyhan River in the city of Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep, Hatay Province. The project was planned to be completed on 4/12/2013, according to its contract, when the 27,095 hectares in the province of Kahramanmarash were launched in 1998, with the construction of the first part of the Guided watering section, which was 9.368 hectares in the province of Kahramanmarash. It is the 2014 Central Ceyhan Kartabakaya II of the Yavallı Project. Mehale Project 2016, Central Ceyhan Menzelet II. The Haile Project was also planned to be completed in 2018. My answer to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/577)'s main verbal question motion is: Çukurova is one of the most important plains of our country and the world's agricultural production potential. The watering of the plain was started in the past years, and in 1956, after the adoption of Seyhan Dam (Seyhan Dam) was established, ASO was opened to water 133,431 hectares of land in the Plain of Lower Seyhan (Seyhan). South of the plain, near the sea, there are more problems with saltiness and drainage, Lower Seyhan Plain IV. In 1995 and 1996, construction activities in the field were held as 38,015 hectares, with contracts in 7YP1, 8YP1, 5TP1, 8YP2, 7YP2, 7YP2. By 1995-03, the physics of the projects was 18 per cent, and between 2003 and 2011, it was opened to water 15,185 hectares, and construction was completed on the main channel. The 8YP2 irrigation field was opened on 12/12/2012. The 7YP2 irrigation site, which is under construction, is now under way. The section will be completed in 2013. 7YP1 irrigation field II. The section construction of the irrigation network was held on January 12, 2012, and will be completed in 2014. 8YP1 irrigation field II. The section was built on 20 January 2012. The Lower Seyhan Plain Projects will be completed in 2014 and the remaining 22,830 hectares will be opened to water. When the project is completed, the farmers' net annual income will be $180 million, annual income. In response to the motion of Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/603) of the main verbal question (6/603), the rivers that are in the territory of Ardahan and Kars, the rivers that provide steady resources to the Lake Deli, are from the villages of the village of Gülı, the Greatchay and Gölebakan and the Pathways. In addition to these streams, the "Crazy Project " of Project I. The water supply for the part was completed in the east, west, north, and northwest for water supplements to the Lake Mad. Overwaters that come in spring through the northern derevation tunnel are taken to the Lake of Crazy. During this purchase, various art structures, such as concrete sekis, were made to prevent the vision from coming from the slopes. However, there is no other species of fish left in the lake, because of the fact that the dervinations remain in the Kura-Aras Basin, including the Lake of Madness. 18 different species of fish have been identified in the 1975 report for the Kura-Aras Basin fish fauna, which is already very rich in fish species. However, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting is responsible for the management and development of water products activities in Lake Madin. Also, it is not technically possible to provide water from the Arpachay Dam to the Lake of Crazy, which is 1,962 meters [1.962 m] in jeans, because more water from the lake flows to Kars Tea and reaches the Arpachay Dam, which is 1,452 m [1,452 m] in jeans. On the other hand, the problems of mud carried by streams, or sediment, are not only for Lake Crazy, but for our lakes, ponds, and dam lakes. The necessary work is being carried out by various institutions, especially our Ministry. According to measurements made by Ardahan Foods, Agriculture and Petting County Directorate in June and September 2007, there is no problem with the dissolved oxygen in Lake Mad. My response to Mr. Zühal Topcu's (6/634) original oral question motion is: The number of employees he employs in the Ministry's central body under the Law of State Officers No. 657 is 2.836. The number of disabled staff in our ministry is 85, but the number of disabled staff in our ministry is 88. Therefore, there is no shortage of disabled personnel. According to Law No. 657, the number of people working at the Forest General Directorate of our ministry is 18,177, the number of disabled staff required to be employed is 545, and the number of disabled staff is 455. It is scheduled to be appointed this year in 2013 for the quota deficit. The meteorological General Directorate is scheduled to appoint him again in 2013 for a disability quota deficit. The total number of employees of the State Water Affairs General Directorate -- as an officer -- is 7.524, the number of disabled personnel to work with is 226, and the number of disabled staff to work with is 173. Since there are not enough available staff, 53 disabled personnel deficits have not been granted permission from the State Chief of Staff to be appointed. Appointments will be appointed in 2013 when the tender and cancellation are provided with an empty staff. My response to Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's 6/671) main oral question motion: Kahramanmarash Adatepe Karakuz watering planning revision engineering services were tendered on 7/10/2008 and planning revisions were completed on 24 February 2012. The protocol for providing 1.5 cubic metres per second cooling and adding water to the Afşin-Elbistan thermal power plant (C) unit from Karakuz Dam was signed in 2007 between the General Directorate of Electric Productions and the DSI General Directorate. With this protocol, the project construction of Karakuz Dam was decided to be carried out by the company that received the RIF, the rejeans tender. However, over the past four years, no work has been conducted in the construction of the Karakuz Dam. In connection with the construction of the Karakuz Dam, the Department of Electrical Productions was asked to discuss it. In addition to the construction of the irrigation project in 2012, the Karakuz Dam project was held on 20/9/2012 if the Karakuz Dam was decided to be built by my Ministry. The completion of projects will proceed to the next phase of construction tenders. The construction of the Karakuz Dam and the Karakuz watering project were auctioned on 6/11/2012. A total of 13.174 hectares will be watered with Karakuz Dam and its units, and the Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant (C) unit will be given 1.5 cubic metres per second of cooling and folding water. In addition, 4.48 megawatts of power from the Karakuz Dam will produce 16,358 gigavatsaats per year. My response to Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/768)'s main oral question motion is that the study was completed in 2012, and there was no land allocation due to the laws of the Coastal Law, and there could be no gardening work around the Lake of Madness, Aktaş and Lake Aktas. The slopes facing the lake were registered as mera, and the Mera Law required absorption change, but the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism did not approve, so we couldn't reforestation it because it was surrounded. My response to Mr. Alim Izwar, MP of Kütahya MP (6/809)'s main oral question motion (6/809): Simav Mayor, dated 04/7/2011 and in 1938, stated that there was enough drilling wells to be opened by Balaban Tea in order to ensure the need for water for housing in the neighborhood of the Muradins, and that instead of building a 600-meter water supply line in the area, it has been demanded that the network be installed on the side of Balaban Tea in order to provide water. Simav's mayor also wrote that an estimated 100m euros is needed to rebuild the water network, which was damaged, old, and economically completed by the province's Bank of Eskişehir Regional Directorate. Our answer to 12/12/2011 article, 468687, and our municipality, which is that there is no financial support available to the DSI, but the project and construction of drinking water investments 1053 have been asked for at least three years, in accordance with the Law on Drinking, Using and Industrial Water Trust, to ensure that investments will be paid back in this case in 30 years, in order to ensure that a protocol will be signed, offering a project and construction period will last at least three years. So basically, we're prepared to build these facilities if the city asks for it under Law 1053. Tokat MP Mr. Reshad Tepul, my response to Mr. Reshat's (6/881) main question motion was: A reform work took place between the city centre of Tokat and the market district exit, in the 22km section, as part of our organization from 2008-2012, within the mass machine work program, was conducted at the Yeşırmak River. The stone inspections of the barriers have been completed 80%, and the work is under way. In fact, the last time I went to Tokat, I instructed that the work be expedited. In fact, we've ordered new service routes right next to the wall, and it's really nice. In the 18km section between the Tokat-Pazar district and the Turhal district centre, project work is still under way, and in the flooded areas, our Ministry has been conducting construction of the machine creek resolving bed. The section, which dates from the Turhal district centre, was held in 2010-2012 for a five-kilometer-long reform work within the mass machine-work program. My response to Mr. Sadir Durmaz (6/971)'s main verbal question motion (6/71): Musabeyli Dam -- which is part of the DSI General Directorate Investment Programme -- is a new name for watering and drinking water, and is publicized by our Ministry of the 34 homes and attachments within the village of Bishech. Publicisation of the premises in the absolute protection area must be carried out by the mayorate of Yozgat. According to Law 5543, the housing work of citizens who have been nationalized is the duty, authority and responsibility of the Department of Construction of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation. Reconstructions for 34 households that have been nationalized by our Ministry in the village have been conducted by the Department of Buildings, and 25 families have been declared entitled to a state-owned residence. On 17/11/2011, a meeting of our Ministry's co-ordination on the relocation of these families was asked to speed up the residence, and the work is conducted by the relevant institution. My response to Mr. Sadir Durmaz (6/972)'s original oral question motion: Yozgat Yerköy İstik Dam started in 1962. The project's main return reports were completed and the planning report was completed at the end of 2011 and approved on 3/2/2012. A total of 2,875 hectares of agriculture in the villages of Belkavak, Wandak, Buruncık, Arifeoglu and Segili will be watered by high-pressure watering system. The dam is located in the 2013 Investment Programme. My response to Mr. Sadir Durmaz (6/973)'s main question motion (6/973) was signed on 5/12/2011 by our Prime Minister's tender for planning the Yenice Dam, which was thought to meet the drinking water need of Yozgat (Jozgat) district of Yozgat, and was signed on 9/2/2012/12. The duration of planning is 360 working days, and the supply date is 3/2/2013. As a result of the planning, the project will be directed. My response to Mr. Sadir Durmaz (6/974)'s main question motion is: The strict project work of the Son Dam is under way and is planned to be completed by the end of 2013. The proposal to the Investment Programme after the completion of its final project will be on the agenda in years to come. Mr. Sadir Durmaz, a member of the Yozgat MP, replied to the main question motion 6/975: Cemil Cicek, Musabeyli Dam...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0033par0571	Mr. Secretary, will you wrap it up? How long...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0032par0572	Mr. President, if you'll just give me ten minutes, if you'll...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0033par0573	Yes, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0032par0574	Sir, the Dam was completed and opened on 12/12/2012. My response to Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz (6/976)'s main oral question motion: Hasbek Dam's final project was completed in 2003 and was not included in the 2013 Investment Programme. Under budget opportunities, it is intended to be put into investment programme in the years ahead. Because we invest a lot in Yozgat, and we'll bring it in when they're done.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0034par0576	We'll see what you do.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0032par0577	Kütahya MP Prof. Dr. My response to Alim Light's oral question motion (6/977): Our ministry serves 486 forest engineers in the main service units, representing 17 percent of the total staff. The Forest General Directorate serves as 4,598 forest engineers and represents 26 per cent of the total staff. 33 forest engineers operate in the State Water Affairs General Directorate. Of course, we can't possibly know the number of forest engineers with a 2012 KPSS document, so we'll have to ask the relevant agency. According to the 2010 KPSS results, 122 forest engineers were appointed to our ministry's main service units, 14 or 98, under the order of the Forest General Directorate. In accordance with Article 22 of the Central Management Budget Act 2013, a transfer can be made from the open to 50 per cent of the pensioners or from other public administrations, institutions and institutions. Our institution is scheduled to appoint 50 per cent of our pensions and other reasons according to KPSS results. In addition, however, the Ministry of Finance and State Staff have been asked for additional quotas, and there will be purchases in the 2013/1 KPSS installations. Mr. Sadir Durmaz, a member of the Yozgat MP's oral question motion (6/978) asks if the Ministry of the Gardeny Dam is in the 2012 Investment Programme of your Ministry? The Bahçik Dam is located about a mile [1 km] east of the village of Bahzjik, on the Gödelenous, which is mandled to the river by attracting. In particular, 33 million cubic metres of water will be stored in the dam, and it is intended to water 6,050 hectares in the river valley. The master plan for the project has been done. In 2012, a detailed engineering geology and a report on natural building materials was carried out with planning, and in 2013, a project construction tender would be held. My response to Mr. Muharrem Varlı's (6/1004) main question motion (6/1004) is that, as it is known, by the DSI General Directorate, the operation of the irrigation facilities opened to the operation is transferred to the user services of those who benefit from operating care, but in the hand-overed irrigation facilities, maintenance repairs or renovations are either being done by the agency, or by the management of the administrator. In this framework, irrigation units are essentially responsible, but problems are being solved by taking advantage of the research and rehabilitation developed by the Ministry in recent years, and by taking advantage of the Bak-I and Bak-Baker II projects. My response to Mr. Muharrem Varlı (6/1005)'s oral question motion: the operating, maintenance, management responsibility of the irrigation facilities is being handed over to the irrigation units, especially under Article 6200 of Law 2/K). In particular, the irrigating water prices set by irrigation troops before the 6172 Law came into practice were not enough to satisfy the operating and maintenance costs of the facilities, so the irrigated maintenance facilities were unable to be repaired, neglected maintenance services failed to fulfil the functions of the facilities. In addition, the troops, whose income was insufficient, were unable to pay the wages of the staff they were running with energy costs. Therefore, the new law has been passed, especially in order to provide these needs -- management, maintenance and staff costs -- and that is the essence of the issue. The process of determining and implementing irrigation fees is carried out in accordance with decisions made by the unity council. Therefore, farmers must make their demands on their debt to watering troops. Yes, Mr. Muharrem Varlı, MP of Adana, answered the oral question motion (6/1006): DSI 6. The Regional Directorate cannot be transferred to watering units within the field, but the main drainage channels in the joint facility property run by our administration are being cleared between three and five years, according to the DSI General Directorate's technical criteria, and all drainage channels in need of cleaning are being cleared. In 2011, 304,153 cubic metres of Down Seyhan Plain and 895 cubic metres of drainage channels in Lower Ceyhan Plain were cleared by the DSI. In addition, the rivers, referred to as the bastion facilities of Ceyhan, also serve as drainage channels and were cleared of 2 million,186,000 cubic cubic metres of the channels in 2011. The irrigation units are obliged to clean drainage channels, which are the required custodians of the irrigation plant, where they take over the responsibilities of business, maintenance and management under the terms of the transition agreement. It is not possible for the Ministry to allocate or allocate equipment to the facility we have handed over its responsibility to. However, in order for the facility to continue its contribution to the national economy, supplying equipment and materials depends on repaying the DSI General Directorate, depending on the nature of the work needed, as long as it is out of the power of the irrigation unit. Within the framework of protocol provisions signed with irrigation troops under the Bak-Turkish Project, which our ministry has implemented on 10/6/2008, it is possible to do these jobs with the DSI General Directorate, at least three, seven years back. My answer to the main question motion of Adana MP Muharrem Varlı (6/1007): The Seven-Eyed Dam is completed by the private sector. The water provided from the Seven-Eye Dam will water 75,000 hectares of agricultural land from the villages of Kozan, Imamoglu and Ceyhan and the villages of Ceyhan. The deadline will be in 2013. Imamoglu Watering I, which is located on the transmission channel and will provide a watering service for 4,152 hectares. Construction was tendered on June 7, 2011, and construction is under way. According to his contract, it was scheduled to be completed on April 15, 2014. My response to the oral question motion of Nüğde MP Mr. Doğan Şafah (6/1033): Planning Report and Project Production III of Nüğde Ili Ponds. The tender was held on 20/11/2012. In order to prevent water leaks, the job of geomembraning the lake site was adopted into the 2012 Investment Programme and tendered on 6/11/2012. The Niğde Ulükışla Darsüküküküt and some of the dervation canals were completed, and the construction of the irrigation canal with the rest of the dervation channel was renovated on 17/11/11/2011, but the tender was annulled due to the company's failure to start the bidding. The 2013 Investment Programme will start with a new tender for the job. My response to Mr. Doğan Şakah (6/1034)'s original oral question motion: The planning reports of the Central Daggered Pond watering and the planning of the Niğde Farm Restricted Pond and the watering of the project were tendered in 2011. Project productions of these ponds continue when the planning reports are completed. When the project is completed, the construction of the ponds will be auctioned off. The Niğde Borede Guide Pond and watering, the Niğde Farm Slippery Pond and watering, the Niğde Piner Könen Pond and watering, and the planning reports of the planning of the Nüğde Ulküsi Pond and the watering of the construction of the project have been tendered and the tender process continues. The bet is that the construction tenders for the ponds are scheduled this year. The Thousand Pond Project in a Thousand Days is on the move, so hopefully it will be completed within a thousand days. My answer to Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu (6/1121)'s motion is: The closing of 145 meteorological stations...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0035par0590	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0032par0591	Mr. President, there are a few left, but if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0035par0592	Okay, finish it, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0032par0593	Because there were so many questions.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0035par0594	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0036par0595	Mr. President, when this is over, it's the current question. This is the timers from the drills; we're waiting for an answer to that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0032par0596	Only the manager status of the 145 meteorological station managers that have been shut down has been terminated. The meteorological observations of these stations are automatic meteorological observation stations, where the OMGI is set up, these services are automatically provided. In parallel with developing technology, meteorological measurements and observations are provided with automatic meteorological observation stations, which provide more accurate and accurate data, and thus increased the quality of success in applications and forecasts, I want to say this in particular. So the areas aren't closed, only their elements are reduced, but the measurements continue. The new administrations are appointed according to their principles of service, merit and career. My response to Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/1130)'s oral question motion: Beşikkaya Dam on the Kura River, Köroğlu Dam and Kotanlı HES, Kayabeyi Dam and Akincı HES move directly to Georgia. My response to Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/1156)'s oral motion for questions is that the divided roadworks on the road routes mentioned on the side of the border road are still under way since the Ardahan district of Lakee and the Ardahan district of Posof district are still under way. When the road is finished, the wooding will begin. The Ardahan-Kars divided road was completed at the end of 2012, and in the spring of 2013, the wooding work will begin. My response to the oral question motion of Tekirdağ MP Mr. Emre Bridgelı (6/1158): Part of Newköy's agricultural land, which remains in the mansa of the Multinational Dam, will be included in the watering area. The planning and project services of two ponds and irrigation facilities in the village of Cementdere, located in the long-distance protected area of the dam, are performed within the Engineering Services and Project Construction work. Due to the fact that the Multial Dam has been located in the maximum water dens of 2km -- i.e. absolute protection, short-distance protection, medium-range containment fields -- it is not possible for this dam to be watered in the villages of Lakecuk, Emirali, Çınardere and Yayapoli. My response to İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer (6/168)'s oral question motion: As forestry activities carried out by our ministry vary, of course, the need for forest engineers arises. The need for forest engineers, which are capable of running our existing forestry services without fail, is met every year as a proponent of the budget law. After 10 July 2010, a total of 428 forest engineers were taken in the main service duties of the Ministry of 62, 366, including the Forest General Directorate. In accordance with Article 22 of the Central Management Budget Act of 2013, the Ministry of Finance and the President of State will be asked to grant additional quotas and will be used for hiring employees if they are allowed to be appointed. My response to Antalya MP Arif Bulut (6/1176)'s oral motion to question: the appropriate opinion of relevant institutions is about 200 metres from the sea and the buffer outside the marine turtle preserve will not be harmed in any way, and sea turtles and natural life will not be harmed in any way. My response to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/1177)'s oral question motion is not found within the Dagger Creek Wildlife Development Zone. Other questions are in the interest of other ministries. My response to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/1199)'s main oral question motion was: Energy Energy Production Assuage (24/9/2007) as a result of a review of the request of the Institute for Productions of Energy (24/9/2007), it has been found appropriate in 9/6/2008 that the distribution of the mineral site should be divided into water due to the dehydration of the current water site, as a result of its current water dehydration. The energy production demand for additional water, dated February 4, 2011, was not seen to have a negative impact on HES facilities in the mansap. Mr. Halaman, the Adana MP, had another question. The final CED report, dated 2006, states that waste water will be re-cleaned and used at the plant or sent to the ash warehouses with the ash. My response to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/1200)'s main verbal question motion was that of the HESTHERs allowed to build within the borders of the Adana Forest Regional Directorate, only the Kozan Bridge Dam, a single series of landslides on the side of the lake mirror after the water was poured out rapidly in the lake mirror. No landslide in other HES areas is in question. THE HES project for planting and rehabilitation for project sites is being introduced and is being rehabilitated according to nature, as well as by concrete work, to prevent landslide and stabilize the soil. My response to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/1201)'s main verbal question motion is: The Floodbrain Termic Plant is not located in the Dagger Creek Wildlife Development Area. Other questions are related to other ministries. My answer to the main question motion by Kastamonon MP Emin Çınar (6/1250) is: The solid project work of the Broken Dam, which is part of the Gökkırmek Broken Project, will continue and be put into investment programme in the years ahead, following the completion and completion of the project. The Oyrak Dam was proposed to build on the Sergeantship in the 1999 Skyrocket Planning Report, and was also intended for the construction of water from the neighbouring basin to the dam. While the planning of the Oyrak Dam has been completed, the technical report on the irrigation system's method change has been drawn up. These will be offered to the investment programme in the future to complete and finish the dam project. My response to Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's (6/1335) main verbal question motion is: Since 1926, meteorological measurements have been taken at the Kahramanmarash Metheorology Regional Directorate, adding to the measurements made by mechanical devices and using electronics. In addition to meteorological measurements in downtown Kahramanmarash, meteorological measurements are being made from 1996 at Kahramanmarash Airport, southeast of the city and about 6km from the centre. In particular, in 2013, an automated meteorological measuring station will be installed in the districts of Andirın and Pazarcık. My response to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu's (6/1336) main oral question motion is: My ministry does not have any work related to the Yellow Beauty Group Drinking Water Project. The project is the Village Group Drinking Water Project, in charge of the Kahramanmarash County Special Administration. In addition, dams, Jesus line and drinking water treatment facilities were built as part of the Kahramanmarash Drinking Water Project, which was carried out by our Ministry to meet the long-term need for drinking water of the province of Kahramanmarash. The water from the Ayvallı Dam, which was completed in 2005, was refined at the treatment plant, which ended in 2010 and was transferred to municipalities, and provided for the city's long-term needs. I tried to answer as much as possible. Of course, I've just written down the questions asked after the off-the-tops talks, and we'll answer them. The most questions came about wells, about clocking the wells. We're doing a study on this, and hopefully we'll have it done within the week. We have no intention of torturing the citizen, we're really trying to find a good solution. My respects to all of you, sir. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0037par0616	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0038par0617	Minister, about the workers in the pool...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0039par0618	Water, water!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0037par0619	Just a minute, Mr. Özkan... Congressmans, our friends who have entered the system have the right to ask for a brief explanation. First up is Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0040par0623	Mr. Secretary, if public health is being ignored, who are we going to complain to? It threatens the lives of the people of Eshkinoz Creek, Eunuchköy, and around it, and you still say it will. But public health is threatened. If someone isn't doing their job, who am I going to remind, Mr. Secretary? Show me a way. Who do I complain to, who do I complain to? The public is under threat, Mr. Secretary. Two: It is my duty to believe in the words of the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs of the Republic of Turkey, and my faith must not be damaged. We'll lay the foundation for the Arguvan Chip Dam until the end of the year. You said. Mr. Secretary, I hope to another spring!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0041par0626	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0042par0628	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister is also a wish: the immediate completion of the unfinished dams of our heromarash, most importantly, to make and finish our irrigation channels for use on the farmland. I'll tell you why there's so much need for water, Minister. We still have no water in the village of Kafallı, Karahöyük, Ağlıca village, Dovelik village, Hasandişı village, Alembey village, Balıkl village of Elbistan. With transport water, our citizens here are trying to satisfy their water supply. Also, what is the status of the dam on the Skysu River, Silifke and Mutita? Will it start in 2013? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0043par0633	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0044par0635	Mr. President, thank you. I want to thank Mr. Secretary for responding specifically, even if it's missing. We were not more satisfied with the responses given by our Minister; we could do it, we could do it. I'm just going to ask you a question -- maybe not in the form of a question -- that's free to answer. 50 HES were established from the streams of Adana. These were given to private companies by our Minister, given for free, given for forty-nine years. So, they generate energy from there, some companies sell it. As we were selling, these dams were built, especially in the geography of our Kozan district. Now, while we were doing it, these dams exploded, 12 people lost their lives, underwater. A year has passed, and half of these dead people have been able to find the bodies of our Minister? Ben, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0045par0639	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0046par0641	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Mr. Minister of the Seven-Eyes said that the watering area of 14,000 hectares has been taken. But your politicians, who work in politics in that area, continue to water this region every year. Number two: the watering costs belong to the assembly of the watering company. You said. You passed this law, Mr. Secretary, to the DSI's bureaucrats, to the DSI's bureaucrats, and they made a 100 percent increase in irrigation fees. That's what I said at the budget talks. I mean, you guys, I guess, did a slip of the tongue here, and I'm guessing because you're the one who passed the law, so the DSI determines the bureaucrats, and they raise 100 percent. Also, a citizen asks, when will the staff be given from the authorities to the DSI? he says. We'd appreciate it if you'd answer that.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0047par0645	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0048par0647	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I see that some of the investments you just claimed were in the investment program are not part of the program. Also, the text you recently sent as an answer to my question, see, in 2013, this month, I received it last week. I'm reading your answer: The Mosabalı watering will be completed on 10/9/2012. (I mean 2012, six months later; that's how you respond to us in 2013! Please, I invite you to take it seriously. Whenever it's finished, write it right. You also said that you invested a lot in Yozgat. The Prime Minister said in 2004 that the brave sons of Bozok Yaylai would no longer go elsewhere to find a job. Since he said that, the population of Yozgat (Yozgat) has been reduced by 200,000! So we've taken every precaution, but the migration continues! The operation was successful, but the patient died. At the point, this is the statement of the measure you took. I'm saying please take it seriously. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0049par0652	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. I apologize to Mr. Agha and Acar. These friends have no questions, and they have no right to explain according to 98.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0050par0654	Mr. President, I have some very important questions for the Minister in Malatya's name.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0049par0655	But you were going to ask me earlier, Mr. Agha. You don't have the right to ask 98, because you didn't ask any questions before, next time. Dear friends, now...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0051par0657	Won't the Minister make a statement to our questions?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0049par0658	One moment, sir... Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if you could give me an answer to the statements in five minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0052par0662	Mr. President, it's a very important question.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0049par0663	I'm sorry, it's tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0664	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, I'd like to point out that it's mainly about the Coinning Creek: of course, I'm the former SKI General Manager, and this is the responsibility of the ISKI General Directorate. But I'm particularly following the economy; right now, not only in that creek, but in the entire area of Istanbul, the missing wastewater treatment facilities will be completed. I'm guessing -- I'm going to keep a close eye on the BSKI -- there'll be river reforms and other investments in that area this year. I just couldn't explain it because, of course, my speech was limited. We divided the streams in Istanbul. In particular, the valleys within the settlement were decided to be rehabilitated by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality and the DSI, while the creeks in the upper basin were to be rehabilitated by the DSI, our Ministry. There's some really serious work going on right now, so you really have to admire him, too. I think the trick is to be complimented. Now, I know about Kahramanmarash. Look, I...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0054par0667	You didn't answer the clover dam.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0668	Then let me answer you about the clover dam.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0054par0669	You promised, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0055par0670	You promised every time.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0671	Sir, I am absolutely certain that the clover dam has been auctioned off before, but the project is wrong...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0054par0672	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0673	...the irrigation field is a false, lopsided irrigation system.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0056par0674	It's changed, the project's changed.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0054par0675	Okay.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0676	We have now reconsidered the project of the Chip Dam. Dear friends, also, the contractor was bankrupt, so we had to terminate him.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0054par0678	When, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0679	His project is over, and in 2013, we're definitely going to hit the pickaxe there. I have already sent you information. At the clover dam...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0057par0680	Mr. Secretary, it's going on the record, it's going on the record.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0681	Let's put it on the record. The irrigation field at the cloverite Dam has expanded, the watering area of the dam.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0058par0683	Mr. Secretary, when? March, April, June...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0684	Hopefully, in 2013, we... you'll remember, before...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0058par0685	What month?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0059par0686	There are rules in this House, rules.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0053par0687	Sir, I'm going to look, and we're going to tell you as... because we're bidding right now, there's an objection. So, after you've been tendered, we'll tell you which date, which date, when we're going to end it, when we're going to say it on the basis.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0058par0688	Hah!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0060par0689	Is the Minister going to do the bidding or the DSI?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0061par0690	Mr. Secretary, you also opened a dam at Malatya, 12/12, but you forgot to open the channels!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0062par0691	Look, good lawmakers, for God's sake, we're giving you the opening date, the time, when we're laying the foundation for all the facilities so far. In fact, we have a lot of countdown counters at our facility right now, and we're calling the deadline. Excuse me. The clover dam... as well, look, have we finished a few dams in Malatya?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0061par0693	Mr. Secretary, you finished, but you forgot to build a canal. No channel, channel! You forgot to open a channel, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0062par0694	The Gated Dam has been waiting for 20 years at a price. We called it the Turgut Özal Dam -- we finished it.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0063par0695	Mr. Secretary, you're saying we're going to do the contract in 2012. Here's your answer.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0062par0696	Other than that, the Boztepe Dam... Sir, Kahramanmarash, I...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0064par0698	Mr. Secretary, you forgot to open a channel to the Boztepe Dam and Kapakayaya.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0065par0699	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0064par0700	But you don't promise.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0701	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0064par0702	But you forgot to turn on the channel, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0703	You don't allow us to talk. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0064par0704	You opened the dam and there's no channel!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0705	For Kahramanmarash, I gave great support to Kahramanmarash.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0067par0706	The government gave me support, the government!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0707	Look, it's the Guided Dam, it's the Booze Water...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0068par0708	Mr. Secretary, will the government or the government do it? Bureaucratic oligarchy!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0069par0709	He opened the dam, but why won't he turn on the channel?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0710	The endless projects, the irrigation facilities, even the watering of the Guide, the Kahramanmarash GAP area, even the Guided Dam was fully included in the GAP.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0069par0711	Mr. Secretary, you promised Malatya a pond, a pond.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0712	In fact, we have declared that we will do to Kahramanmarash, the largest and largest ponds and watering within the scope of Bin Lakes in a thousand days.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0069par0713	Mr. Secret won't allow it, so we're asking here, so what do we do?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0714	We promised it, and I explained it in front of the press when I went to Kahramanmarash. That's on the record. Look, we gave it to the press. That's what we're talking about. Look, we promise you that.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0069par0715	You promised Malatya a pond, Mr. Secretary. What about him?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0716	Sir?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0069par0717	You promised the pond from this stand, the pond.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0718	Of course, that's what we... whatever pond he's in.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0069par0719	You were making 70 for Opium, and you were going to do it to Malatya!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0070par0720	Yes, please... please, it's mutual...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0721	Now, look, other than that, he talked about the HESEs, especially our Mr. Adana MP, HES. Sir, these dams haven't been built in years. Look, Turkey's hydroelectric production potential was 165 billion kilowatts per year; in the past, in 2002, 26 billion kilowatts could be produced, and the other was wasted. So what we're doing is that we're willing to do this in a similar way, in accordance with the Agreement for Water Rights Act, not to exceed forty-nine years, provided it's fully covered from private sector -- from public to construction costs. In fact, we're getting a contribution from them right now.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0071par0722	Mr. Secretary, will the government or the government do it?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0072par0723	Mr. Secretary, Karapınar's Mukhtar is on the phone with 700 clocks on our village and on the well. How unfair is that?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0724	So we contributed about $1 billion a year. So, if there's more than one application per kilowatt hour, we're bidding, we're paying a contribution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will answer other matters in writing.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0073par0727	Finish it in a minute, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0074par0728	Mr. Secretary, you're putting a meter on these wells...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0729	I'll finish it.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0075par0730	Mr. Secretary, is it the government or the state that you mean by what we're going to do? Which one?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0076par0731	It's probably the government.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0066par0732	The government will, of course, the government will.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit02spe0076par0734	The question motions have been answered. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Libyan Government, where we are left with the Court of Justice and Foreign Affairs Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Military Education Business Association Covenant. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Talks on Article 1 were completed in the 28th Union of 22/11/2012. There will now be a question-answer procedure on Article 1. (x) 339 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 28th Consolidation Charter, dated 22/11/2012.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0077par0021	On all of it, Mr. President, it's not article 1.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0076par0022	No questions, no answers. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) This goes into effect in the history of law publishing. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the groups, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0078par0027	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Dear friends, it is our country's right to cooperate in friendship, peace, love with all the countries in the world. This is how order should be established, a world without benefits. We're making deals with some countries, these co-operation agreements happen on different issues, but I'm here, especially since it's Libya, once again, to the Foreign Commission, so as our Minister of Youth and Sports, I have no right to ask him that question, but I'd like to ask the Foreign Commission in particular. It's no one's place or duty to interfere in the internal affairs of a country. Each country makes its own destiny, each country draws its own sovereignty. Libyan people choose the government in Libya; the people's will determines how to govern, how to govern. You don't dictate will by force, by force; it's another side of the job. But, our most important problem is, do you know the situation of Turkey, especially the number one market of our foreign contractors, our contractors in Libya? My dear friends, three years have passed, and no one has asked what or what you are doing, what you have done here? A lot of countries went to Libyan and bought it with oil, and I'll point out, it came with oil. He's gone, he's from Libya, he's from France, he's from Italy, he's from a lot of countries... because he exports 150 million barrels of oil a day. He's got money, he's got stamps. But, for what it's worth, we still don't know what we're waiting for -- the troubles are over, the events are over, Gaddafi's been killed, a year and a half -- but why, we don't know what we're waiting for. No one's been interested in these contractors for two years. Only Mr. Victory Falls Minister tried to take care of it, but unfortunately it has to be taken in an ash; and the Minister of Energy must go, and all ministers must take our money from there. These people have about $3 billion worth of money, friends from Libya; they're in a very difficult situation, they're in a very difficult situation. There are two kinds of companies that work here: one, they take the job directly. Two, subcontractors for those who take the job. In particular, the workers of subcontractors are miserable, miserable, hungry friends. 500-600 people in each firm, especially second-hand, and the first-hand company's subcontractor, all of these workers were devastated, my friends. And the most famous companies in Turkey have made a deal with the subcontractor. He says if I get my money, I'll give it to him. Well, Libya doesn't pay. The first contractor doesn't pay for exports to any firm because I can't get his money. He doesn't pay for supplies, he doesn't pay for workers. My dear friends, if you make a deal with a country in that country, if this country has one right, it's everyone's duty to take it. I'm asking: What have you done so far about Turkey's debts from Libya? Did you go knock on those people's doors because one contractor was gonna buy it? Did you ask for the money of the contractors of the Republic of Turkey? No. France's gone, Gaddafi's taken over, the oil's gone, my friends. Oh, we're suckers? We're somebody's contractor? Why don't we want our rights? My dear friends, we have a problem here. If the State Department and the Ministry of Energy had helped Mr. Zafer Çalayan, we would have received most of our money. I've taken care of it one-on-one, I've taken care of it every day. Because I've been to Libya 29 times before to hand over contractors' jobs, I know Libya. But you won't ask Libyan for money, give me my money. You won't say, you'll leave the contractors behind; then, it happened, co-operation with Libya... That's no way to cooperate, fellas! Co-operation is mutual respect, love.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0079par0036	The government doesn't have any responsibility to...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0078par0037	My dear friends, there's a serious matter here; we're still stalling, there's still no answer. A council president from Libya has arrived; Mr. President has hosted it, ministers have hosted it, Foreign Affairs has hosted it. And? Nothing. The result is none of our friends. I'm calling from here: it's a very important export gate in Turkey... for contractors who do business in Libya. About 20 billion dollars is what Turkish contractors are currently getting, friends, $20 billion. This is the most important breadwinner of Turkish exports, my fellow workers in Turkey. They buy all the materials from Turkey, this door cannot be closed, this door cannot be locked. But you don't care about these people's problems. It's very painful, and I'll say it again, it's very painful. You really should go ask the contractors about this pain, especially the second-hand contractors, the people are all screwed. They couldn't pay their workers. A lot of workers text every day. Just a moment ago, Mr. Group told my Deputy President that a worker from Libya was begging him, and he was in need of bread. That's the problem. Otherwise, we're not against this deal, but the deal is mutually collaborative. This is not called a working union. We must take what we can from Libya, the bread of our people in Turkey. No one can make our bread for anyone, my friends. I'm calling the State Department from here one more time: if you're going to buy it, take it, if you're not going to buy it, no one has the right to drag these people down, folks. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0080par0043	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Sinan Oğan is an Iğdır MP. Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0081par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, congratulations. In fact, to our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, you've used all the authority to bring the clock to seven hours, give the Minister an extra half hour to shut down at seven... I don't know, hopefully you didn't plan this on purpose because normally, here at this hour, we should be talking about terrorism, but since there's a Libya in between, let's talk about it. Dear friends, if you remember, what are we doing in Libya when the Libyan issue first came up? Three days later, NATO said, Turkish soldiers, Turkish warships, submarines went to Libya. Again, if you remember, on the official website of our embassy in Libya, a day ago, a call was made to Turkish citizens who were working in Libya, that there was no problem in Libya, that our citizens should work in normal business order, and the next day there was a revolution in Libya. Now, these were two important examples of your government being inadequate in Libya, unprepared in Libya. However, despite all this in Libya, an action was carried out by France, Italy, Britain, the United States, Turkey's backup, Libyan revolution in Libya, and the Gaddafi administration in Libya fell down, Turkish businessmen faced a serious problem in Libya, but all remained behind. What are you doing in Libya today? What have you done since the day that the 300 million dollars you sent to Libya with luggage, the money of this nation that you sent to make a revolution in Libya, the $300 million that you sent, were revolutionized? If Mr. Secretary of State were to brag about it on the right hand and on the other hand, if he came and told the High Council about it, we would know that if you'd done the right thing, we'd appreciate it as opposition, you'd do the wrong thing, we'd criticize it, but there's no word from you. Where did $300 million go? How are our businessmen getting on there? Does our embassy there still agree? Did you strengthen our staff? In these matters, there's no word from your group or your government. So at least now you have to come here knowing about the military agreement with Libyan people and inform them. Dear lawmakers, we, of course, stand by the transfer of past experiences of the Turkish Armed Forces from the past to today, so we are on the side of this agreement. However, before, we were opposed to such agreements as the militia agreement here, and we expressed their dissension. Again, we say that this agreement will also be supported by the Nationalist Movement Party, but that does not mean that we support your Libyan policy; this does not mean that we will support your co-chair of the Great Middle East Project. We're going to use our right to criticize here to the fullest. You don't defend the rights of Turkish businessmen in Libya, but as opposition, we will defend it and say it and say it over and over again. Turkish businessmen must at least protect their rights in Libya after the revolution, at least those $300 million should be paid for by our businessmen in Libya. While Turkey has done so much to Libyan militias who were brought to hospitals and treated in hospitals, who have brought Istanbul to Syria, and who have been sent to Syria by Turkey at some point, we see that, like the subcontractorship of the Great Middle East Project, the subcontractorship of this business is in your government. And your government, there, is, unfortunately, unable to maintain the rights of Turkish companies, such as one French, one Italian, one British, one American company -- like other countries. As I conclude my words here, I salute your grand delegation and express that our group will support the military agreement with Libya. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0082par0055	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. No more words on matter. We've got two friends in the system, we're gonna do a QA. Mr. Irbet, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0083par0059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday, on 14/01/2013, 52 United Nations member states asked the United Nations Security Council to submit an application to the United Nations Security Council through the United Nations Permanent Representativeship channel, allowing the International Criminal Tribunal to participate in the situation by the UN Security Council's decision. The same decision was made for Libya and Sudan; this time Libya also signed the letter. Turkey is not among the countries that signed this letter. Although Turkey has promised international contracts such as the International Criminal Tribunal's Founding Status -- that the prime minister will be signed in 2004 -- it is missing the essence of the job as a late party and has no say in effective foreign policy decisions. I thought we were sensitive to Syria for over 60,000 dead citizens. The crisis in Syria is growing for twenty-two months. Human Rights Watch (human Rights Watch) reported that at least 26 children died in recent violence in 14/01/2013. A year ago, Israeli Foreign Minister Liberman said that Israel would support the PKK to punish Turkey for its behavior in the Blue Marmara. NATO has news that it supports the PKK through Greece. What is Turkey's strategy on this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0084par0064	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0085par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my question is going to be in a different area, so I take it for granted, but it's important. Due to lack of endovascular surgical equipment, the area is currently under way at Ankara Numune Hospital, one of Turkey's largest hospitals. This may be the head of the Health Commission or members of the Health Commission, which is a very serious problem, which I submit to the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I propose that the measures be taken immediately. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0086par0070	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Secretary, will you answer the question?
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0087par0072	Mr. President, regarding Mr. Irbeç's question, I would like to point out that the government of the Republic of Turkey, on the international ground, shapes its foreign policy as a respected member of the international community. In this sense, our policies are set on a plane parallel to the dignity and expectations of the Turkish nation in both Syrian policy and the formation of the international leg of the fight against terrorism. In the steps taken, the highest-level initiatives to protect the interests of our nation are being carried out on all grounds. One of the grounds for these high-level initiatives is the NATO floor, without hesitation. During the period of our governments, the PKK terrorist organisation was included in the list of international terrorist organisations, and the framework ensures that the international community is alert to the divisive and destructive activities of PKK's terrorist organization. I can't answer that part because the size of your question regarding the Israeli Foreign Minister's initiatives is not relevant to our current topic and agenda. We don't have any information on Mr. Serindağ's question at the moment, but I consider it a duty to inform Mr. Health Minister on the subject. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0088par0076	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. No questions asked. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Libyan Government for Military Education Business Association Agreement Approved: ▪ Number of votes used : 252 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi That way, the deal is legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report of the Dair Law, which is ranked in the 4th place, confirming an Agreement on Co-operation in the Battle of Major Crimes between Terrorism and Organised Crimes in Primely Between the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 91 rows. Mr. Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP who wants to speak on the whole bill. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0089par0106	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Charter on the Approvement of Agreement for Co-operation in the Battle of Major Crimes between Terrorism and Organised Crimes Primely between the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I salute your committee. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 91 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Dear MPs, of course, it is important for Turkey to sign agreements with many countries of the world, especially with its neighbours, who have been suffering for more than thirty years than terrorism. In this frame... Mr. President, if it stops humming, our friends, the conversation... if they're going to chat, they might as well be outside.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0090par0111	Friends, please listen to the preacher. I'd appreciate it if we could just stop humming a little bit.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0089par0112	Precious AKP people, you can also take the conversation outside. We're not just talking to you, we're talking to the great Turkish nation. Even if you cut the TV broadcast, the Turkish nation has somehow found and watched it from the Internet. So, you're going to have a chat, please, have any conversation you want outside. As you have been having this conversation in Imran for many years, go outside and have this conversation.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0091par0113	Mind your own business, mind your own business!
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0089par0114	We're talking terror here, we need to talk. You're going to talk to the Imralı, but we need to discuss these matters with the Turkish nation in the High Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I find it difficult to understand one thing: has Turkey lost its fight against terrorism? Turkey lost its fight against terrorism, and we don't know? You went and confessed to Ocalan, and you didn't tell the Turkish nation? You've been negotiating with terrorism since 2006, you haven't taken it upon yourself before, you've done it in secret. Mr. Prime Minister spoke of this in a rally with very indisputable expressions, and then you turned it around, and now we're not seeing each other, the government is seeing each other. You've brought it to the point. Mr. Group Vice President Oktay Vural had a very important emphasis on that effect. So, for example, the State Water Affairs -- and the Minister who was in charge -- when you did a service, don't you take it on yourself, or when you opened a new dorm, Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports did it because we didn't do it? So, if you and your government are conducting the process here today, come out here in front of the manly, Turkish nation, and say: "Yes, we are seeing each other." One day you lie to the Turkish nation like this, and one day you don't have to talk like this. Dear lawmakers, did you come to the point where the fight against terrorism was lost and make a confession here, and we didn't know about it, did we? Well, if we haven't lost the fight against this terror, if thousands of Turkish soldiers have been martyred on this subject, then what are you and the terrorist negotiating, what are you negotiating? If, no, you're saying that you agreed to negotiate with terrorism, that you gave up the fight against terrorism, when did you go to the Turkish nation to apply for it? Therefore, the Turkish nation has given you authority to fight terrorism and to fight with the Turkish army, the Turkish nation, Turkish police, and the government. But it seems you've taken away this power from the Turkish nation, you've placed it in the lap of the baby killer, the Imran killer, and the Turkish nation has not given it to you, Ocalan, to that murderer. There's one important thing, and I'd like to share that with you here: while our Minister of Youth and Sports is here, especially in the dorms, especially at universities, you should also know the pressure of PKK's extensions to the students of the Turkish nation over there, against their children. I would also like to say that in Ankara's Faculty of Language and History-Geography, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has received support from the outside, especially the attacks against our country's brothers, that we condemn them here, that we condemn them with hate, and that measures should be taken on this matter. Just yesterday, again, a brother of ours was ambushed and stabbed to death, Mr. Secretary. Look at the dorms, the dorms that belong to you, Mr. Secretary. The dorm managers have become hostages of the PKK students there, Mr. Secretary. You have to give the Turkish nation the explanation here. The Prime Minister brought up the death row here. During the execution debate, we said over and over again: "I will express the gas of the Turkish nation -- so to speak -- "This discussion is being made to take the gas of the Turkish nation." • Later, when the parliamentary immunity of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) came to the agenda, the Prime Minister again spoke of the removal of immunity from the high screen, as it was being held in the mountains by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). What happened? The lawmakers, whose immunitys you have been talking about until yesterday, are going around as if they were the carrier pigeons of Imralı, the villain of Imran, Abdullah Ocalan. So you're fooling people. On the one hand, we're opening the execution debates, and on the other hand, we're still talking about lifting immunity, and on the other hand, you're still in negotiations. Dear lawmakers, your opening policy has been ongoing since 2006, and you've been opening up since 2006. In the end, more than 1,200, the honorable member of the Turkish army was killed. Well, in this process, you have to come to Turkey and give Turkey the account of what you've given Turkey. As a result, the Metropolitan Law, which will turn a significant portion of our eastern and southeast provinces into a state, unfortunately you've spent a lot of votes here, despite all our opposition. Now, in the coming days, you're in the account of bringing back another treason project. By making some changes in the CMK, you will bring a new betrayal project that will break the unity and integrity of this nation in the coming days under the right to defend it in the language. When he arrives, we will speak when that day comes, but today, I want to carry out our duty to give warnings from this National Assembly, from the nation's stand to the precious members of our Turkish nation. With this project, along with the changes you're going to bring back in the next few days, I'm afraid you're looking for a new set of laws to make some terror leaders, including Ocalan, comfortable for their private lives. Again, you're in the game of releasing those who were arrested from the NEP with the 4th judicial package in the same way. The esteemed MPs, Deputy Prime Minister Arinc, say: "The nation is divided into two groups; the negotiators on one side -- who are counting in the other; who are counting in the AKP; who are counting the CHP; who are counting the CHP; who are against the negotiators on the other side." Right, we as the Millitarian Movement Party are against the negotiators. If you divide people like this, make sure that the National Movement Party is on the opposite side, against you. It is against those who negotiate with the PKK, against those who co-operate with it, against those who walk along the same path, against the Nationalist Movement Party. If you divide society in two, you divide the nation in two, our line is with the nation, our line is not with those who embrace terrorism and terrorists, it is against them. Dear lawmakers, by the way, it is up to some of your government's ministers to mourn the PKK people who were killed in France during this talk with the terrorist organization, which I must express. Now, as a result of these negotiations with the terrorist organization, you need to come down here and say some things. You have to answer to these people. If the leader of the terrorist organization is sitting at the negotiating table with you in Imralı, you need to tell the people what you gave him. Otherwise, you'd have to fight terrorism, not negotiations. One dimension of this struggle is the armed struggle, but the second dimension is the financial struggle. Come here and tell me, for God's sake, what have you ever done to cut off the terrorist organization's financial resources? We said here in the budget talk: they put a pipe in our border for two miles, they built a refinery next to it, our Customs Minister doesn't know about it. You raise tea, sugar, cigarettes every day. This raise, on the one hand, burns people's pockets and fills the pockets of Barzani, Barzani, and PKK terrorists, whom you are proud of. What did you do to cut the PKK's financial resources in that sense? What did you do to stop the PKK's international support in this sense? Even France is trying to help Turkey in this regard, while it avoids co-operation with Turkey, you and France -- I just expressed -- when you revolutionize Libya, you should also ask France to account for that. Or you're playing revolutionary in Syria under the Great Middle East Project of America. In return, do the United States support you in your fight against the PKK? Of course, a country must conduct its struggle with its own resources above all else. After all, a country must take this challenge with confidence in itself. But if you're subcontractoring for someone on behalf of the Great Middle East Project, at least you'll have to make some attempts to cut PKK's international support in return. Dear lawmakers, with some success in the fight against terrorism in particular over the last year, you need to explain why such openings were made during the last year, especially when police, soldiers and other security forces were co-ordinated and co-ordinated between special operations, and at a time when the terrorist organization would be hit in that sense. Come to me, show me an example of a country in the world here, and say: "In this country of the world, in this country, in a similar way, in this country, which is similar to ours, it has been fought in a similar way. You sit at the table and solve the terror problem in this country. You bring up an example that is not in any country in the world and try to put it to the Turkish nation. Just as you've spent years chasing a pipe dream that has no place in any literature in the world -- for the sake of an empty dream -- and now you're trying to negotiate a principle in the world without having to fight terrorism. In no country in the world, dear friends, this is not how the terrorist organization has been destroyed. You can't show me an example in the world that it's impossible to solve this on a table with a terrorist organization without hitting a terrorist organization. It would buy time for the terrorist organization, but it would strengthen the terrorist organization. Dear friends, this is not a matter of the AKP, CHP, or CHP, it is a matter of the Turkish nation, it is a matter of unity, integrity of this country. Whether you talk among yourselves as much as you want, whether you transfer this matter to Mr. Prime Minister as much as you want, and whether Mr. Prime Minister's hope is just an Imranian villain, it will not be resolved, and there is only one section that will ultimately be harmful to this issue, Turkish nation; there is only one country that will be harmful to this issue, Turkey. So, let's see this as a matter over politics, we'll discuss it as a matter over politics, and come back where you're wrong, please correct this mistake. In this case, if you don't know, ask us, don't ask us, go ask the people in the world who have solved this issue, ask the academics. Without even asking you, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sure that there are valuable lawmakers within the AKP Group who think that this issue will not be resolved by negotiation, who are in the national spirit and thought, but unfortunately, as in the Metropolitan Law, these friends of ours can't make a sound at all. Dear friends, even a special session of terrorism in the House needs to be held. You're negotiating with a terrorist, you're suddenly making the country a terrorist, you're almost making the terrorist a hero. One minister shows the way to the mountain, your other minister almost grabs a handkerchief and cries, but there's no sound in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The ruling lawmakers of the Turkish Grand National Assembly are talking among themselves about their own affairs, even when terrorism is being discussed. Edin sirs, have these conversations, the Turkish nation will ask you to pay for it. The Turkish people will ask those who go to the Imralı to answer for them in the Supreme Court. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0092par0135	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. No one wants another word on the whole bill. We don't have a friend who hacks into the system for questions and answers. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to the articles. The Minister wants a two-minute statement. Here you go, take your seat...
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0093par0141	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute the General Assembly. To tell you the truth, I don't want to be on the side of a polemic this time of night, but Mr. Oğan, speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party, has actually made impossible sentences about the government of the Republic of Turkey and about our ministers. We reject all these claims and allegations. I consider it a sad, worrying approach to the national unity and unity of our nation, in fact, for a member of parliament to make such statements about the government of the Republic of Turkey and its views on our nation. All members of the government of the Republic of Turkey, particularly Mr. Prime Minister, are not acting on any purpose except to mobilize all possibilities for the resolution of this terrorism problem, if there is a solution that can be accepted by reason, logic, compassion and conscience, law and international law. There is no basis for the government of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Prime Minister and members of our government in the first place, to follow any ideas or lines that are incompatible or contradicted by the interests of the Turkish nation. Mr. Oğan, you were in Sarikamis, as far as I know from January 5th to January 6th. You have understood the view of our government in the martyrs, in the doubt, in this land, in the flag, in the profession, in the eyes of our government, in the national and spiritual values, along with us, in the mountains of Allahuekbar. So that's our line. I don't think there's anything that's bothering the terrorist organization that should be bothering you. In other words, we have 308,000 young people who live in our 344 dorms. In these dorms, we allow the extensions of PKK, ACK or other illegal organisations to dominate on no basis. The only goal of our children living in these dorms is to continue their education. And of other ideological groups, of course, what we expect is that they will follow all the rules of peace, order, and order in the dorms, that they will continue to teach, that they will not target anyone, that they will not become anyone's target. But if there are practices in violation of the law regarding the groups you're talking about -- there may be incidental events -- we have an untenable and uncompromising understanding of governance, I want you to know that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-15sit03spe0094par0147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Responsibility for the establishment of the Republic of Turkey with the government of Turkey, and for the establishment of the administration of the Republic, as well as for the establishment of the administration of the United States, as well as the establishment of the administration of the United States, as well as the establishment of the administration of the United States and the establishment of the United States. Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Republika Srpska, which was signed in Ankara on March 10, 2011, on the fight against Major Crimes, was approved. No one wants to talk about matter. We don't have friends who hack into the system asking for answers. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. No one wants to talk about matter. There's no question-and-answer on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, I present the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill that Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Republika Srpska in the fight against Major Crimes is appropriate. ▪ Number of votes used : 253 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the State Commission and the Environmental Commission reports, which are in the 5th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 152 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. No questions, no answers. Since the speeches on the entire bill have been completed, I submit to your votes that all those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. CONSIDERING THE CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION IN THE CONTROL OF THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY IN SIRBIA The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of Republika Srpska, which was signed in Ankara on March 10, 2011, was approved. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] (x) 152 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Members of the Parliament, I present the conclusion of an open vote of open voting on ratification of the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Perimeter Area of Serbia: ▪ Number of votes used: 240 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill is legal, so good luck. We are starting talks with the Turkish Republic Government and the Foreign Commission Report on Agricultural Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 286 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to their articles. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY IN SIRBIAN REPUBLICATION The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Agricultural Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was signed in Ankara on September 28, 2011, was approved. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 286 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Republika Srpska on Agricultural Co-operation. ▪ Number of votes used : 242 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi That way the bill is legalized, good luck. Members of the law, we will now begin negotiations with the 7th-place State Commission reports from the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, as well as with the Dair Legislature, where we are eligible to join the International Plant Protection Convention. The government is in place. The commission is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 72 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. DIVORCE OF PROTECTION TO CONTINUE IN PROTECTION OF THE UNIVERSE OF PROTECTION MADDE 1- (1) We have been eligible to participate in the revised text of the International Plant Protection Convention, which was adopted during the 29th session of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization Conference in 1997. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 72 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute, I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, it is a clear vote that we are eligible to join the International Plant Protection Convention: ▪ Number of votes used : 235 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi Congressmans, this is how the bill has been adopted and legalized, so good luck. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (January 16th 2013) that we discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (January 16th 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
