tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. Members of parliament, the Kosovo-Turkey Friendship Group, which is visiting our country, has arrived in our Assembly of the Kosovo Side President, Düfera Shinik and the MPs with him. We welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] Yes, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Bayburt MP Bünyamin Uzbek, who wanted to mention the 95th anniversary of Bayburt's deliverance from enemy occupation.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise because of the 95th anniversary of Bayburtt's deliverance from enemy occupation. On this occasion, I salute you. Bayburt is one of the most unique cities in terms of historical and cultural wealth. Bayburt is one of the many who split him in two with the Chorus River, the Bayburt Castle on the hill, the clock tower in the square, and the Enlightenment of the Grandpa Scare, and the Undertown of Aydıntepe, the mosques and caves of Seljucians, Bayburt. When it's called Bayburt, it's Grandpa Scare, the Poet's Mind, His Holiness, Ekmeluddin Baberti. Celali, Irishadi, Hicrani comes to mind. When we are called heroics, 15,000 martyrs lie on Mount Kop, and Captain Martyr Akhah of Kocatepe, who leans on the door of Baghdad, come the young Osman. When you think of Bayburt, you think of a man who's brave, honest, intelligent, hard-working. He who helps, he who is near the oppressed, he who helps, he who makes the crying laugh, Bayburtlı. He won't bend, he'll stand upright, he'll applaud, Bayburt. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Dear MPs, Bayburtlu has fought heroically for his country, his flag, his nation, and he has won, and he has not hesitated to sacrifice his life and his blood for it. It's possible to see the Bayburtian martyr who fought on all fronts in any martyrdom. With the pride and happiness of having such a profession, our heads are always upright and our flag is shaped by the blood of our martyrs is always in the sky. The greatest task that falls on us is to claim our republic, which is the trust of our ancestors who built this land for us at the cost of their lives and their blood. To love our country, to protect our unity and unity, to bring our country and our city to a more modern and happy tomorrow. Dear MPs, our nation has made a new history in World War I. One of the heroic sagas of our glorious history has happened in our city. It is a clear sign of our nation's strength and strength, faith and determination, that cannot find food, bread, or shoes to wear. This year we will celebrate the 95th year of Bayburtt's deliverance from enemy occupation; once again we will remember our heroes, we will boast of them, we will be proud of them. This battle has been a part of our proud exploits, as well as of the metrics that need to be known. During the war, the Armenians who lived in the area during the withdrawal of the Russians had tortured and left no stone on stone, women, children, and old men, who had embraced them for centuries, considered their lives, their possessions, their honor, their lives, their lives, their lives, their integrity, and their integrity. The massacre of Stone Stores, the burning of the living people, and our 19 daughters-in-law and daughter-in-law in the village of Upper Kırzı, throwing themselves alive in the well to protect their honor. Tatiana Karameli, who was a nurse in the Russian army at the time, was one of the best witnesses to these atrocities and tortures. In his caramel memories, he revealed the tortures of Bayburt. In part of his memory, he painfully explains that the Armenians were withdrawing from Bayburt, forcing about 150 children to go with them and brutally slaughtering some of these innocents and their bodies on the road. Now it is our duty to understand and learn from the suffering of those years. The Great Lord tells us never to let these sufferings happen to us again, and we remember our saints and martyrs with gratitude and mercy. On the other hand, you know, the Constitutional Court has revoked the clause, which includes the release of at least two MPs in each province regardless of the population in the parliamentary election. On this occasion, Mr. Prime Minister, from the bottom of my heart, I am Bayburt's 2nd MP. He said, "I'm proud of you, thank you." [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] The 95th anniversary of our Bayburtt's deliverance from enemy occupation says, "Happy birthday again, I salute you."
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0003par0036	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Kopeeli MP Hurşit Günşün, who wants to speak about the duties and responsibilities of lawmakers. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0004par0041	Dear friends, I have taken an off-the-book agreement on the duties and responsibilities of lawmakers. My respects to all of you. I had 550 MPs hand out CDs yesterday. This CD contains footage from a factory in Hatay, BBC, on January 30th. These images are a program by the BBC, which says that the bombs in Syria were made in Turkey and were transferred from Turkey to Syria. I wanted you all to see it because the BBC showed it on January 30th, but in Turkey, unfortunately, it wasn't seen. Dear friends, as you know, on February 11th, there was a huge explosion in Cilvegörı customs, four of our citizens died, more Syrians died, and as a member of parliament, I went to Hatay to inspect Cilveközü on the orders of Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu, the president of the Republican People's Party. On February 12, 2013, I was at the scene at 10:10. I requested the CCTV footage from Prosecutor Kemal Zöhrehre, and after I saw the location, and immediately after, I was unable to explain it to the press because I have not yet had enough information about the incident. This was published, published alive. But unfortunately, Attorney General Bestami Tezcan called Mr. Hasan Akgöl (Hatay MP) and said: "There is a confidentiality order in this case, you cannot see the footage of the cameras." (The other night, Interior Minister Muammer Güler, Minister of Justice Sadullah Ergin, Minister of Customs Hayatiyar, President of TOBB -- Mr. Hearcıklıoğlu, the AKP MP Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu of the region had seen these images. How do I know that? Because Bayram Türkoglu said that the next day, on TV8 put on Gökmen Montenegro's programme that evening: I saw it. Twenty minutes after the vehicle was pulled in, the explosion took place. He said he was watching the whole thing. Dear friends, on August 25, 2012, I also wanted to visit the refugee camp in Apadun. At the time, the Human Rights Commission was appointed to cover up that incident, and Apadun camp was given a false report. Now, Interior Minister Cilvegör said some of the CCTV footage has been served to the Anadolu Agency to make it look as they claim. Dear friends, our only duty is not to lay hands on and raise our hands in this Parliament, but we are not only in charge of legislature; we are also the custodian of governance, it is our constitutional right. Now, when we want to do this, we face discrimination. The Prime Minister gets up, says, "Are you a police officer? Are you a police officer?" Now, that's nasty, I'll put that aside. A mouth that is unbecoming to a Prime Minister, but more importantly, it shows that the Prime Minister does not tolerate the duties and responsibilities of members of this Parliament, especially to the opposition lawmakers. A Constitution is now being established ▪ It will be more democratic! ▪ How will it be? What is the benefit of the Constitution, where the opposition has no right, an oversight mission is not imposed on the opposition, it is oppressed, it is discriminated against? If such a constitution is to be made, let me be perfectly clear, even the 12th of September Constitution will be sought out. Dear friends, I'd like to make another point. I'm sorry. When Mr. Cicek found out that I had expressed the treatment of Apaedil, he called me later on the phone and apologized. Don't let Mr. Flower call me on this speech and apologize to me on the phone. It is his duty to ensure that all members of the House can be fully supervised. Don't you dare call me, teacher, I'm sorry, I didn't know. Mr. Prime Minister is trying to obstruct my duties as deputy minister, and Mr. Flower remains indifferent.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0005par0048	Take back the word "indecency," take back the word "misability" to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0004par0049	When the Prime Minister gets his word back about me, I'll take it back.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0005par0050	I'll return it to you exactly.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0004par0051	No one can stop this Parliament from doing its duty, this is the cradle of democracy. We're the legislators. We're doing our duty.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0006par0054	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0007par0056	Metiner, are you the Prime Minister's lawyer? Metiner, you're doing all sorts of things because you think I'm good for the Prime Minister, it doesn't suit me!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0008par0057	Don't be disrespectful, we don't call your leader reckless.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0006par0058	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0009par0059	In his speech, Mr. Orator, our Group President has made unspeakable remarks about our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0006par0060	Mr. Aydın, please don't get into any more bullying - I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Hatibi, when we looked at the subject of his speech, we thought he was having a conversation about the responsibilities of the MPs. He gave a very irresponsible speech, a very irresponsible speech by neglecting his own responsibilities, instead of reminding him of the responsibilities. Dear friends, on this stand, everyone has to speak to the literary. The Prime Minister of this country, when you take that statement about a Prime Minister who was voted by a 50 percent voter, you need to keep your mouth clean, and you need to be honest. You have no right to insult anyone. And no one in this country has the right to make statements to the Prime Minister here that have anything to do with him, not even the slightest degree of decency. You come in, you talk, you criticize, but you never insult. The Council of Parliament should never allow insulting remarks on this stand should never be made to the floor, and we know that everyone is using a language in accordance with its literary manner. If he's using dirty words, you should know that there's a problem with his literature, thank you, thank you. (CARP PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0010par0067	Here you go, Mr. Sun. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0011par0069	There's bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0010par0070	What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0011par0071	He said that he had doubts about me, that he had doubts about my literature.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0012par0072	No, they said you did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0010par0073	Come in, Mr. Sun, and I promise you two minutes, but please don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0011par0076	Yes, dear friends, in my opinion, it is not polite to accuse any of the 76 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey of Turkey of being elected, not any of our citizens of the Republic of Turkey of Turkey, of being dishonorable, ruthless and unconcerned. If you claim it's a decent act, then let me be clear, leave the Prime Minister's office. It doesn't look good, it doesn't look good!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0013par0078	Is that very decent of you?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0011par0079	It's not right to call a congressman that, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0014par0080	Tell that to your president, give him a lesson in decency.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0011par0081	This does not suit the Prime Minister, nor does it suit the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, nor does it suit you to defend it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0015par0084	Everyone says it suits them.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0016par0085	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, who asked for the appointment of Mother's Day.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0017par0091	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise on Earth's Mother Language Day. I hereby salute you all and congratulate you on Earth's Mother Language Day. But today is Earth's Mother Language Day, so I'd like to greet you in my native language... [[x]] Dear MPs, February 21, 1999, were declared World Mother Language Day by the United Nations. The meaning of such a day is of great importance to people whose language is forbidden. In this sense, it means an important contribution by the United Nations to promote multilingualism, to protect language, to protect language. In fact, it is difficult to explain the importance of the native language, the education of the native language, in such a short time. However, we find it important to express it as those who experience it. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. Language is a living mechanism that provides an agreement between people, which describes emotions, thoughts, desires, collectively. It's also a living being that provides friendship among humans. A language is a person; two languages are two people. The more a person knows a lot of languages, the wider the horizon, the more advanced the language of each society becomes, but the more important it is because when a child falls into the womb, whatever its mother feels after her four and five months, whatever she feels, whatever she is talking about, the more the child grows up with it, and whatever language the child speaks when he is born, whatever language the child speaks. For example, if he spoke English, the child also speaks English, and if he spoke Turkish, then of course the child speaks Kurdish. Obstruction is not possible, of course, because the language he speaks is Kurdish and geography is Kurdistan. It's impossible to prevent. Its native language is, of course, in the native language, to interpret the world, its relationship with the world. First, a person can understand, understand many things in his native language, because before education, he has a relationship with the child, the mother and the midwife, the environment, geography. The shape of his soul, his love for the land, his respect for the land, the air he breathes, is more important than the bread he eats, because only when he expresses himself in that native language, that mother tongue becomes his identity. His freedom, all his thoughts are focused inside him. A native language is a common goal that unites a people, even its cement. According to UNESCO's data, 6,000 languages were spoken around the world, but today, unfortunately, 2,750 languages are spoken. Many of these languages are spoken in 200 states. Many of these languages, in countries run by democracy, are undoubtedly developed by hypocrisy. For example, in Europe, Belgium, Germany, Asia, India, Pakistan... there are 320 languages spoken in India. In Africa, Nigeria, 420 languages are spoken. This shows that the language is a common treasure of mankind, on a cultural basis, even on a commercial basis, that develops, transforms, and develops relationships between people. Unfortunately, because of racist, monogamous, dirty policies, these languages today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...most of them are disappearing. Turkey was speaking 34 languages, which now appear to be falling into 15 languages. This is an indication of how important language is to people in countries with similar experience, both international agreements and other countries. There's a people, language, culture, history. If the language and culture of that people are restricted, the language is forbidden, so is his identity. So, if those people can't express their culture, their language, that's considered a disgrace in the international arena because there are no such bans in democratic countries. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0018par0105	Thank you. Your Honor, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0019par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. As the National Party of Action, we too are deeply celebrating Bayburtt's 95th day of victory. It is not appropriate for Bayburt to be invaded by the enemy. In my opinion, Mr. Bayburt should have been called Bayburtt's day of victory. All of our martyrs who lost their lives on the day of Bayburtt's victory, as the National Movement Party, we ask the Lord God to bless us. We congratulate all the Bayburtians from the bottom of our hearts. And thank you for your promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0020par0114	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. ▪ The President has Presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of Parliamentary Research: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Every valley above the rivers is built under HES projects. After Munzur, Coral and Pülmür valleys, two dams are now under operation, five dam projects, two dams are in the project phase; Kiğı Dam, Özluce Dam (faalty), Pink Light Dam, Seyrantepe Dam (faalite), Tatar Dam. If the projects are fully implemented, more than 60 villages will be in danger of being underwater. Many villages will be evacuated as well as forced to emigrate in 84 villages. Thus, instead of a state-sponsored return project to villages, the state-sponsored dams will be built, and the people living in Tucson will be built a completely dehumanized piece of geography as a result of their removal from their homeland. HES projects and the destruction of Tunceli's historical, human and physical geography, as well as the destruction of cult centers in the region completely underwater. The region, however, has had a unique body of different ethnic groups that have lived together for centuries, where different rituals and religious forms have reinvented themselves. Mountain, hill, rock, rock; lake, stream, stream, little water eyes; tree, grove, small forest areas; father, grandfather, sultan, private maharajah shrines, etc. Places have been interpreted by people in a religious context, with deep meanings, in a religious sense, with a certain bond of belonging. The region has sometimes dedicated sacrifices to a saint, a shrine, a temple, a visit, or a sacrifice, sometimes lit candles to a bed, a tree, a mountain, and a hill to warn evidence, and sometimes to a man, a sultana, a father, fleas, a common rosebank. The water's life - giving and sometimes its total harvest has left deep traces in the memory of societies in the past. However, the fact that the economic, social and legal rights of society aside from building an artificial disaster, which is more than a natural disaster with HES projects, is the fact that the physical habitats are destroyed. Based on the results of HES projects, T.C. In Article 166 of the Constitution, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, "on the basis of the decision on the benefits and needs of society in the investments to be made. 02.01.2012 [[Tunceli]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 4) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 14) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 16) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Edirne]] [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 25) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 26) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 31) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The problems of justice and suffering in our country are constantly discussed in public. A large number of topics are the main elements of the discussion, from the lengths of detention of staff from the challenges to the conditions of international law, to developments in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors (HSYK) from which the terms of our contract cannot be passed. The situation of justice also attracts the attention of international public opinion and makes our country look bad in the world. The latest example is the report by European Human Rights Commissioner Thomas Hammarberg after his visit to our country from October 10th to October 14, 2011. Hammarberg's report is a detailed picture of the situation in our country's justice system. The report, published under its subtitle, "The Protection of Justice and Human Rights in Turkey," emphasises that our country's law and practice in the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) will require much more and more effort to harmonise it with its commitment to the full and desired potential. The report, stressing that extreme lengthy trials are a chronic dysfunction of the Turkish justice system, features the most common problems: "a frequent application to detention and anxiety over long periods of imprisonment." In the past few days, the challenges of cases involving Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and Oda TV cases, and the injury of our citizens' conscience, the role of the executive-judgmental dialogue in our country at the point of the destruction of freedoms, both academic and current. The report of European Human Rights Commissioner Thomas Hammarberg is also of special importance. The emphasis that special prosecutors and special officials are highly criticised state security courts (DGM) has a feature of the continuation of the state security courts (DGM), writers who have been arrested for writing books have been also mentioned in the report of the European Convention on Human Rights (AIHS) titled "Freedom and Security Rights," as well as the 10th Articles called "Freedom." The fact that there is still no regulation in our country on the role of the Minister of Justice and the Undersecretary, which has almost agreed in our country that the judiciary has obstructed independence and neutrality of the judiciary in our country over the years; the lack of judicial law, lack of justice courts in the region; the lack of torture of suspects; the fact that the investigation of suspicious persons in the very early phase of the investigation; the fact that the judges and prosecutors are on trial and intra-service training has been on the outside of the ECHS framework; the fact that there is no longer a basis for the role of the Justice Minister and Undersecretary; the lack of justice, the lack of criminal justice staff; the lack of torture of the investigation; the torture of the investigation; and the fact that the fact that there is no longer an issue in which we are on trial, and the basis of the basis of large rights, and that there is no basis for which we are being involved in Turkey, and that there is no longer a major freedoms of freedom of freedom of freedom of freedom of justice. As noted by the report by European Human Rights Commissioner Thomas Hammarberg, a special study must be carried out in our country in order to further identify and resolve the problems involved in the justice system, such as justice workers, political parties, NGOs, and experts in the matter. In this regard, the Constitution is 98 in order to investigate the problems facing the justice system in our country and to determine the solutions. And 104 and 105 of the TBM Civil Charter. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamental research. [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 11) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 13) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 14) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Aydın]] 17) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Erzincan]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 22) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 23) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 28) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Violence and individual arms are increasing every year in our country. Many of our innocent citizens have lost their lives in what is reported in public as "maganda bullets." In order to uncover the painting on individual arms and to determine the measures to be taken regarding the injuries and deaths caused by individual weaponization, we propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105. [[Ankara]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 9) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İzmir]] 11) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[Aydın]] 16) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 22) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] 24) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] 29) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] Individual arms, violence towards individuals and society is increasing every year. The problem that threatens society is among the important issues of our country, as it has been in many countries around the world. As the number of incidents involving individuals with licensed and unlicensed weapons rapidly increases, many of our innocent people have been injured or killed, especially because of what the public calls "maganda terror." Family dramas are especially caused by a random gun fired in the air to celebrate after weddings and sporting events. In our country, the numbers of individual arms are frightening. In our country, 12 out of 100 people have guns. Turkey is ranked 14th among 178 countries in regard to individual arms. It is ranked 31st among 48 countries in terms of transparency related to the arms trade. The number of licensed weapons in our country rose to 1 million 945,000 in 2003, while the number rose to 2 million 145 thousand in 2005. According to Interior Ministry data in 2010, 256,906 transports, 222,271 possessions, including those renewed from 2005 to 2009, were granted 3,474 rifle licenses. The number of unlicensed weapons is included in the Hope Foundation data dedicated to individual disarmament. According to the Foundation's statement, the number of unlicensed weapons is estimated at 3-4 times the number of registered weapons. Data on the use of weapons in the violence has shown how important disarmament is in preventing incidents. In the first six months of 2011, the number of armed violence increased by 83 per cent in 2001, according to the same period data. 14% of the gun murders were used with a licensed gun. Studies have determined that young people's possession of weapons causes significant social problems. In suicides and peer murders, guns are used. In addition, weapons are used in violence against women who have increased 1,400 per cent in the past seven years. In women's murders, piercing tools are first in line, while firearms are immediately in the 2nd place. In recent years, crimes such as theft, extortion, and threats in Turkey are often used with weapons. There are guns in every three houses in Turkey. The gun in the house increases the risk of accident, murder, and suicide by 41%. Of every 10 murders committed by gun, one of them lives in traffic. The rate of weapon use in the murders is 60%. Three times the number of armed deaths. The commission on individual disarmament will carry out a key responsibility for preventing arms and violence related to it. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0021par0324	Mr. President, I'd like to join the first Munzur, HES and dams motion. If you'll excuse me, I'll sign it for the record, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0020par0325	E, join in. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0021par0327	Gee, Mr. President, I say I want to join the first HES and Munzur Mountain research motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0020par0328	So you're saying you're here? I said, "Accept." They'll bring the original and get your signature.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0021par0329	For the record.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0020par0330	Well, it's on the record.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0021par0331	Sir, I don't have a signature. And I say, I agree with this motion, and I say, "Let's get it on the books. I'll sign it."
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0020par0332	So I said, "Accept." He's on the report.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0021par0333	That's the way it is. If you don't know, don't go up there.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0020par0334	Mr. Young, we take advantage of what you know very well. There's no original here. Thank you, you're really enlightening the House, thank you for your high knowledge. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. 20.02.2013 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Wednesday, 20,02,2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 26 March 2012, it was given by Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici and his friends (785 rows no. "In order to investigate increasing racism, nationalism and hate crimes in recent years, parliament's motion to investigate the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been suggested to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and read in presentations Wednesday (2002,2013), and their talks in the same date. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0022par0349	Mr. President, my dear friends, it's been almost a year and a half since this request for a research commission has been granted to the House, but the grounds for the motion remain fresh, even with new elements. There are a lot of examples here, and they're all actually related to the resolving of the social tensions and victimification of these rhetorical practices against groups which are excluded from race, national, ethnic origins, language, color, religion, gender, age, political opinion and for similar reasons. Last time, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- who was then Prime Minister, who was still Prime Minister -- after a lynching attempt by the TAYAD (TAYAD) people who wanted to be lynched in Tripoli -- made this speech: Everyone must determine their position by considering the sensitivities of our people, when these national sensitivities are touched, no doubt his reaction will be different. The same reason led us to a violent demonstration that we were subjected to hours of violence against the four members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly of Turkey, using its capital, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and freedom of speech. They had the same motive, very sensitive. Why are they so sensitive? Because the Peace and Democracy Party MPs are coming to town, which has touched their sensibilities. The rights and obligations of lawmakers from the Peace and Democracy Party to all parts of Turkey, there is no legal nor moral nor political limit to prevent them from doing so, and otherwise, it would be a tremendous nonsense. When members of the BDP or other parties couldn't go anywhere with any concern, we really should have thought that Turkey was divided at the time, because if one MP's journey to another city is limited to borders that don't really exist, then there's a serious problem. We've faced this problem. Dear friends, frankly, Turkey has been saved by chance from the possibility of a very serious internal conflict, a disaster, that could eliminate this during a period of peace, because if we die in Sinop, our vehicles... [[What were you doing there?]] Whatever you're doing, I'm doing it. It's everyone's job here, to tell the public their opinion, to tell the public their opinion, to accept it. Is there anyone here who doesn't have a job? If we were doing this, and those who threw stones at the teacher's house's windows were to throw something else, and those broken double-story windows were to stick in people's bodies, and if those who threw those stones had chosen to throw anything else, we were faced with a threat that lasted nine hours, starting from a moment when there was no power to prevent it. The Prime Minister said it's only natural and necessary for us to go wherever we can and explain our views. We had those rights six months ago. Six months from now, we'll have these rights. That's a bad thing to say. It doesn't take as much wisdom to say the sky is blue as it is to repeat what you've already seen. But after nine hours of seeing that the law enforcement forces in charge of protecting the lives of these lawmakers and securing their lives are in hand with these attackers, we are not guaranteed these rights... in this regard, and surely the Home Secretary must, if he does not want to appear to be a part of this order, have to remove the governor of this city and the chief of security. There was not only violence and aggression here, but it also happened at the height of hate speech; in front of the police, the lowest slogans for the womanhood of our women MPs were shouted for hours, hidden behind the shadow of nationalism. Our dignity has been defied, our origins, our opinion, and we have passed through a nine-hour stage full of it. Behind this -- very clearly -- is a special military force that favours the continuation of war policies in Turkey. This particular military force claims that the Black Sea is its own. He claims it's his own autonomous zone. The Black Sea is not the autonomous zone of the private truth, it is the working people of the Black Sea, and there is no reason for us to confront them. They are as hungry for peace as we are, as thirsty, as we are. Unfortunately, this Gladio gang, which haunts the Black Sea, absorbs its sensibilities like a tick, feeds on human blood, eats human flesh, defies Turkey's entire future. The few young people they can provoke are neither the people of Sinop nor the people of Samsun. We know the people of Sinop and Samsun. We're part of this community, this life, we've lived there, we've fought there, we've worked there. The People's Democratic Congress is in the Black Sea with all its components, but it doesn't come from outside. The Labour Party, Socialist Party of the Crushed, Socialist Democratic Party, Socialist Party, Green and Left Future Party, all other political movements are there, and because they are in a state of mind and conscience, while they are not the component of the People's Democratic Congress, in Samsun, Turkey's Communist parties, people's houses, the 78° Federation has been subjected to a heavy deal over the hours. Unfortunately, my dear friends, the discurity our political parties acquired during the past war has had something to do with this heat, something to do with it. For among those who surround us in Sinop, there were those who made the signs of Bozkurt with their fingers, and made the marks of weapons with their fingers; and there were those who cried out: We are the soldiers of Mustafa Kemal. There were also those who carried the three crescent green flags, and we saw them with our eyes. That's why we don't accuse any of the mainstream parties of organizing this process, but the discuride that's been set up for years...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0023par0357	It is the accusation, the accusation...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0022par0358	...poisoned fruit is being collected. We're all seeing this. You have no right to say such a thing because I have to defend your right to speak everywhere.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0023par0360	No, I'm not saying anything about your conversation. Did you see who made the Bozkurt sign?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0024par0361	Let's not talk mutually, Mr. Furcier, please address the General Assembly. Congressman, please...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0025par0363	Now, I didn't say this was yours anyway, but I understand that different choices can be mixed up in confusion. I want all of our political parties to get themselves out of this Gladio circle, an open, democratic disc, to encourage being in a dialogue, to deny everything based on hate speech, and not let the public get confused. It's my right to protest as much as anyone else's. This right cannot be taken away from anyone, but it is a crime as soon as the protest is launched with hate speech, and it can't be tolerated by saying that these MPs were related to the PKK. I'm close to whatever I am, and you can't use hate speech against me, and I can't use it against you. For all of this, parliament has to do as much as it has the right to open an investigation into a Parliament that includes Sinop and Samsun, which is going to expose all of this gladiatoric structure, because if a peace portal is to be opened, we are forced to condemn the speech of hate and the mechanism behind it by hand. We expect that kind of behavior from all of you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0026par0367	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0027par0370	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Peace and Democracy Party on the establishment of a research commission under the Article 104 and 105 of our Civil Code, so that the hate crimes can be prevented and the necessary measures are taken. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, I'd like to start by making an assessment of the merit of hate crimes. Hate crimes are acts of aggression, not because of any action by victims of crime; nationalities, culture, appearance, ethnic origins, religions, in other words, not because of their actions, but because of their belonging. Unlike other types of criminals, hate crimes are threats to the existence of the victims of the attackers, and victims are targets of hate crimes, not because of individual, personal traits or editions, but because of the presence of the group they belong to. Hence, these crimes are one of the greatest enemies of social peace. Congressmans, if we can base hate crimes on various theoretical definitions, such as sociological, political, psychological, it is more appropriate to explain them with the theory of domination, which contains all these theories. According to the dominant theory, there is a dominant group in society and a subgroup. According to this, the dominant group produces a hate speech for the lower group, and because of that, it creates a basis for hate crime. In fact, this dominant group creates specific patterns of judgment by defining itself with its best qualities and its subgroup with its worst qualities. One ethnic identity, for example, is also able to brand another ethnic identity with very wrong, no truth, with judgments. But there could be a lot of people in the dominant group who are thieves, who are dirty. And that's why hate speech is grounding a hate crime and dynamited our social peace. Members of parliament, there is no norm in our positive legislation that regulates a hate crime, but there are regulations in the content that meets hate crime. In fact, the 10th article of our Constitution states that everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophy, religion, religion, and so on. Again, in Article 3 of the Turkish Penal Code, the principle of justice and equality is protected in front of the law. In addition, the 76th article of the penal code includes genocide charges, discrimination charges in Article 122, and text in Article 216, which incites people to hatred and hostility and condemns them. Although the European Court of Human Rights has not accepted a clear definition in its proceedings, it has used this concept to promote, promote, defend or justify the hatred stemming from religious intolerance. According to court proceedings, concrete statements, such as insults of certain persons or groups, are not part of the protection of the 10th clause that guarantees freedom of thought and expression of the contract, and can therefore be restricted by states and national laws. Congressmans, the political rhetoric we've developed as the EC PARTY is based on an understanding that compares our country's demographic structure to any kind of differences as wealth. Let the people live. We love the State. We love the Creator, because of the Creator. Our statements show that we are anti-ethnic, regional and religious nationalism, that we are tolerant of all human traits, that we are a political party that embraces the whole of Turkey. Here, in my opinion, we need to underline something in particular. Turkey has a very reliable basis for hate crime and hate speech. For this reason, the Peace and Democracy Party, which has especially proposed research proposals for political parties to rule Turkey, must take into account the facts of Turkey and demonstrate a rhetorical statement. See, a representative of the BDP is a conflicting attitude for our brothers and sisters who were forced to migrate from the Balkans to Turkey just a few days ago, not you, but us, to present a motion on hate crimes by enforcing the words that contain the meaning of this country.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0028par0377	That agenda has changed, Mr. Orator. Apologies have been made, and the press has made a statement about it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0027par0378	This is an approach that needs to be questioned, my friends.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0028par0379	You don't have to change the agenda again.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0029par0380	Don't make a mistake, Hodja!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0027par0381	Yes, that's an approach that needs to be questioned. Again, just a few days ago, a CHP MP friend of ours came forward with a statement that Kurds and Turks could not be equal, and the founding ideology...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0030par0383	Come on! Where did he say? When did he say that?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0027par0384	...a political party claiming to have been transferred to Turkey...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0030par0385	You're lying, you're blaming parties, it's a shame!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0027par0386	Friends, these are the issues that have been discussed on the agenda of the House.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0031par0387	Mr. President, Mr. President, there's no way...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0027par0388	These are the things that we've been discussing on the agenda of Congress.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0031par0389	Please speak for yourself. Let go, don't talk to the CHP, talk to them yourself.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0032par0390	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0031par0391	Please say what's in your heart.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0033par0392	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0032par0393	Mr. Sergeant, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0034par0394	It's a shame!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0033par0395	Congressmans, I find it helpful to rephrase here that hate crime, hate speech, as well as in the public and media, is an area in which both our parties and our media should be dealt with more carefully and carefully.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0035par0396	The Prime Minister's hatred is the king's saying; he takes it underfoot, he sews it up on the hill. The Prime Minister uses the most kingly hatred! First correct his tongue, first correct his tongue!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0033par0397	As a matter of fact, dear friends, only after the elections, some of the authors we consider intellectuals show that they consider a certain party voter a man who scratched his belly as a man, and that they are one of the most important areas at the point of hate crime.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0036par0398	You scratch everywhere, you scratch everywhere!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0033par0399	Congressmans, we are a conservative democratic party, a party that connects our historical and cultural values with universal principles. In our opinion, we've never adopted or adopted any principle that would lay the groundwork for hate crime and hate speech, no matter what. Because in our historical and cultural heritage, there is no background for hate crime and hate speech.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0037par0400	If you plug your ears, you won't hear a thing, dear.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0033par0401	As I have mentioned above, we love what is created because of the Creator; we hold on to our principled values, whether we should give good news or not, that the Persian is superior to the Arab, and that the Arab is superior to the Persian.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0037par0402	Oh, you've got to live with yourself!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0033par0403	Members of parliament, we believe that the facility for social peace is safer and more habitable for a future generation of Turkey, at this stage, rather than a parliamentary research commission, the political parties who have submitted the motion and supported it must do an accounting within themselves by creating a mechanism of self-criticism within themselves. With these thoughts and feelings, the General Assembly salutes, and I wish you all a good day.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0038par0406	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for the support of the group's proposal, Aykan Erdemir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0039par0409	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Council, and the great people who are watching us on television and computer screens. I have received a pledge from the Peace and Democracy Party in favour of a motion to investigate hate crimes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you can see, this is not the first motion for hate crimes. We're talking about a bleeding wound in our country, and about this bleeding wound, lawmakers from different parties have submitted similar research proposals at different times. As the Republican People's Party on November 22, 2012, we submitted a motion to investigate hate crimes again. First of all, I'd like to start with a thank you. Our November 22nd survey motion provided a consensus that we had long wanted in parliament. Lawmakers from the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party and the Peace and Democracy Party voted in favour of this motion. Here, I'm not saying this to criticize the ruling party, because we've been in a variety of dialogues with members of the ruling party since then, and we know that they're actually a fan of fighting hate crimes, but they haven't been able to vote in favor of the party's ruling board yet, let's say, because they haven't been able to vote in favor. Again, we repeat our call: "Come, let us take out this bleeding wound of Turkey by the votes of four parties, by the agreement of four parties, by unanimous agreement, by co-operation." So we have a thank you and an invitation to the 4th party group in the Parliament that has not yet joined us, so let's do it together. Again, our initiative as Republican People's Party on this matter was a proposal from me on December 3, 2012. We had a proposal for a law that brought heavy sentences to hate crimes. This offer can no doubt be reduced to the proposal of a person or a political party. This proposal was a reflection of the common mind, social understanding, compromise, which emerged in Turkey. Why do I claim that? Because there is a platform in Turkey that brings together 70 NGOs, the Hate Crimes Law Campaign platform. This platform is headed by the Social Change Society, which gives me equal motivation. And when we look at this platform, we see a platform that reflects all of Turkey's differences in political, philosophical and all of the other areas. So if it's wanted, if it's right, if it's right, if it's right, if it's right, our 70 civil society organizations can come together in different parts of our society, large parts of our society. So, we presented the draft of the law, which is the reflection of this agreement -- because the council was insensitive at the time -- as an offer to bring it to the agenda of the House, without touching its grounds, without touching its content. It is our hope that both the ruling party and the commission and the High Assembly will not be indifferent to this common mind, this agreement. Again, another reflection of the social common mind appeared in Istanbul on Saturday (February 16, 2013) last weekend. A Hate Crimes Conference was held. There was a huge turnout at the Hate Crimes Conference, and again, it was very broad in the community. Mr. Melda Onur, our Istanbul MP, and I were there to represent the Assembly. The heart would want us to have more deputies. But we believe that in the next four parties, lawmakers from our four parties will participate in such events, and we believe that with a social agreement in Turkey, we will pass this proposal -- perhaps the bill -- when the day comes, and Turkey will be free of shame. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's hear it for the Hate Crimes Law Campaign platform. Today is no longer a time to rule, not a time to rule, not an age to rule. Today is the age of governance, the age of finding common solutions to society's problems, along with civil society. What does it say, platform? He says, "First of all, we want a separate law on hate crimes for Turkey." But he also says, "Please don't confuse hate crimes with hate speech." Look, this is important. Why does this progressive platform want only one law of hate crimes at this stage, not one law of hate speech? The reason is because in Turkey, you know, there are major obstacles to freedom of expression, freedom of the press, and very different segments of hate speech that say, although we are victims, we do not demand a law of hate speech in today's conditions in this difficult period of democracy. In the first phase, we want an arrangement for violent crimes, especially life-threatening, intent on property. And I say, let's listen to the voice of the civil society and proceed with the law of hate crimes. That doesn't mean that hate speech doesn't matter. How important hate speech is that we are witnessing the negative events that have occurred in both the 81 provinces of Turkey and under the roof of the Supreme Assembly from time to time. So hate speech is a matter that we should undoubtedly focus on, but perhaps it does not require us to go to legal regulation in the first place. Finally, I want to go into a separation because the law on hate crimes in Turkey is often perceived as a law of Islamophobia, a law that can be reduced to Islamophobia, a law that can be reduced to Islamophobia. Islamophobia, no doubt, is one of the processes that stems from hate crimes such as anti-Semitism, one of the negatives, but a law of collective hate crimes, which cannot be reduced to pure Islamophobia, a law that is inclusive and inclusive, let's listen to the platform once again, look what they want: race, nationality, nationality, ethnitism, color, disability, and mental disability, sexual orientation, and gender. In this regard, I hope that the High Assembly and our esteemed deputies will reach a common agreement. The Republican People's Party's position on this matter is very clear, and I'd like to stress that. We have a policy note published as part of the series of Politika Notes: "Advocating life together against hatred." We call it equal citizen, free man, brotherly life. The Republican People's Party's view is clear and we continue to run politics in this framework. Again, the Republican People's Party has declared the fight against discrimination and hate crimes in the 2011 election declaration, which includes sharing very detailed, concrete proposals with the community, which is an obligation. And in that sense, when it comes to hate crimes, I'd like to point out that under the roof of this House, we are open to all kinds of cooperation, all kinds of constructive cooperation. Before we end my words, we owe you an apology here, and I want to say it. Who do we owe it to? We owe Mr. Baki Ergül, mayor of the Republican People's Party, an apology to Mr. Baki Ergül, because he, unfortunately, was exposed to discrediting, incriminating and targeting accusations due to the events in Sinop, and was exposed on a day outside of Sinop because of a severe illness of his wife. Yes, an apology came in today because these allegations, these allegations, were not based on any concrete reality, and the owner of these allegations took back his word and apologized, but I believe these accusations, these accusations, these aims, are too big to pass on an apology. At least here we are sending him an apology on behalf of the High Council. We know how peaceful he is, how friendly he is, how friendly he is, how brotherly he is, and how he advocates equal citizenship. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0040par0423	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Salih Husband, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0041par0426	If you could just get on the Prime Minister's plane and mention it in the newspaper that points to our Süheyl Batum.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0042par0427	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Council of Peace and Democracy inquiry motion. I salute your high council. The Justice and Development Party, in fact, is a party that has expressed its views, set its principles, and established its stance on these and similar issues before it is established. At the group meeting yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan reiterated our red lines regarding such issues and declared that we are against ethnic nationalism, regional nationalism and religious nationalism. In short, our Prime Minister has stated that we -- as our prime minister calls it -- that we trample this kind of nationalism under our feet, and that in the sequence of values, we ignore nationalism based on race, society, and that they are evil. Thus, in such matters - as I have just stated - the attitude of the EC PARTY is clear. Actually, I think it's time for us to talk more about brotherhood, unity and unity, let alone hate, violence. Because Jonah, who came out of the heart of Eskişehir, many years ago, had actually said well: let's make it easy for the bride to meet/ make it easy for us to meet/love/to be loved/the world doesn't belong to anyone. I hereby take more time from our General Assembly this week and salute your grand delegation, who believes that we should continue to negotiate with the Public Special Co-operation Model of our Ministry of Health, to be built, to be restored, and to be served, and to make changes in certain Laws and Laws.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0043par0431	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0044par0432	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit01spe0043par0433	I'll call. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0043par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of the Peace and Democracy Party Group's proposal, given under Article 19 of the Civil Code, was not enough to vote. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 20/02/2013 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 19/02/2013, İstanbul MP Hope Oran and 28 MPs gave the Turkish Parliament the Parliamentary Assembly for the purpose of "the first degree and other complementary elements of the Supreme Court and of the judiciary in order to ensure that the Constitution and its problems in the European Union's Convention on Human Rights should be determined and the solutions should be found" (736 rows). lu) has been proposed to be presented to the General Assembly's information, ahead of the pending motions, to be read in Wednesday's 20/02/2013 jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. On behalf of the Republican People's Party's Group proposal, Hope Oran is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0045par0018	Mr. President, I salute the High Council. Our agenda, our topic, is to establish a research commission to make the judiciary more independent, more objective, faster, more effective. Therefore, I have made a promise that this matter will be voted on shortly. The Second Amendment of the Constitution states that Turkey is a democratic, social state of law. When we look at the legal state, the law state has to be essential, it has to be a fair, fast-working, fast-working judicial system, so what we expect from the judiciary is that it's neutral, independent, that the rule of law exists, that it's swift, fair justice in the basis of human rights. Today, there is a reverse process in Turkey, so the conclusions that the judiciary has put forward in this way are completely incompatible with what I say, but when we look at them, there are some precedents that surprise the judiciary. An example? Mr. Zahid Akman. From the lighthouse, you know, he was arrested for a short period of time, and the court ruled that more than three months of imprisonment would be punishment and violation of human rights. As a result, Zahid Akman was released. Now, the most important thing in the judiciary is that the judiciary has to be equal to everyone, so the principle of equality is fundamentally applied, it has to exist. Law shouldn't be any different from who or who. Now, as we look here, we're looking at the law against Zahid Akman, and now let's look at it on the other side: Mr. Fatih Hilmioğlu has been arrested for four years, lost his son, suffered and was almost tortured there, couldn't get together with his family, couldn't share his pain, and there are serious scientific reports on his health, but he's been arrested for four years. Mr. Mustafa Balbay has been under arrest for five years, a journalist, a congressman. Mr. Mehmet Haberal has been under arrest for five years, a world-class medical doctor, and he has been suffering from illness. So when you look at it, the law on Zahid Akman now or the court order, the judgment must apply to everyone. Look, a 22-year-old journalist, Sami Mentesh, the youngest arrested journalist in the world. He's still under arrest, and he's been on trial for two years. Now, when we say these things, someone from the government, from the Justice and Development Party says, "Sir, these are not journalists, these are terrorists." So there's this thing called "property" and everyone's innocent as long as the court doesn't decide, and it doesn't end. If the case isn't over, if the court hasn't made a decision, then the immunity decision has to apply to everyone. Look, let's come to something else, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan... there are allegations about Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and there are allegations of fraud in the allegations of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Now, I'm asking you, are these allegations of the Prime Minister valid, so is the court finished, the court has decided? I'll give you another name, Mr. Hakan Fidan. Mr. Hakan Fidan has called the prosecutor to testify in the allegations related to him, and look what he said in the claim: an indictment was made against him for aiding and abetting Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and he has been called a member of the TK. Remember, at this time last year, the prosecutor crossed the line. It was said, sir, that a law was passed immediately at night, and the Prime Minister said, "I won't feed you." You didn't feed him, and as a result, the law has changed now. Now, look, I've given examples from separate places, and I'm saying that if there's a margin of innocence, there's one for everyone, so whatever it is that's the margin of innocence for the Conqueror Hilmioğlu, it's the margin of innocence for Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We have to make it happen once, together, with the government, with the legislature. On the other hand, if you look at it, if the court is not over -- it's just a case -- and we're not supposed to execute people without a trial before the trial is over, and we're not supposed to have people in custody for four years, five years, and we're going to have to convict them there. Look, at the beginning of the week, sad events occurred in Turkey. Two days ago, I was in Silivri. There, people, old people, children were attacked by pressured water, people were injured by brute force, gas was sprayed on people's faces. I mean, it's like a war criminal, it's like a war environment... and people are already walking there, and there's a mosque five meters away, and they say: "I'm stuck, let me go to this mosque, let me use a toilet." Sir, I'll do my service. I'll come here, here, there's the mosque, here... it's forbidden. I mean, is that a human right? Lawmakers were arrested, lawyers were beaten, lawmakers were beaten. Now, can such a thing, such a national will, respect such a law? We all have to do this together. Look, today it's on the news, and you've probably followed it, and immediately the government has resigned in Bulgaria, our neighbor. And the reason why the government resigned was because of the high price of electricity, the public's outburst, the public's protest, and as a result, the Bulgarian Prime Minister said: "I am not the prime minister in an environment where the police are beating people, I am quitting the government then." Now, I looked at the pictures in Bulgaria today, and I actually looked at how the police there poked the people, how they used brute force, how they applied them. On the one hand, I looked at the pictures in Silivri, which is in my memory. I was really embarrassed when I looked both ways, and we're worse than that. Isn't there a duty here for the government, then, to the AKP? Isn't there a duty here to the legislature? The state of the law has been here for ten years. Look, I brought up the European Union process here yesterday, and you all said no again. Now, look, look at the state of the judge, look at the speed. In severe criminal cases, the trial lasts nine hundred days, with an average of three hundred days. Let's do something about this. The results have been there for ten years, so we would have said, OK, well, then the power is doing well, we don't have to set up a research commission, you do it, we support it. There's no such responsibility as the main opposition, there's no obligation, but there's no obligation. Ten years... look at the point of judgment. Last week, I was embarrassed by what the Minister in charge of the European Union said. The Minister in charge of the European Union said to the members of the Karma Parliamentary Commission: 33,500 people were released after the Third Judgement Package.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0046par0031	That's a lie!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0045par0032	Is that even possible? But I didn't go out there and ruin it. I looked, I looked at the numbers. I'm looking at 1980 figures, 58 thousand to 60 thousand prisoners, looking down at 2002, looking down at e 2012, looking down at 138 thousand, looking at the end of January 2013, 140,000. Where are those 33,500 released now? Now, look, that's what the numbers tell us. The Prime Minister sometimes says, "Where are you from?" See, the number of prisoners is 60 thousand in the 1980s, 80 in 2002, now 138 thousand, where they came from. So there's a problem. And we need to solve that problem together. So the power is conditioned to this? Are the lawmakers here on the legislature of power conditioned to this? For four years, we will say no to whatever comes from the opposition. Is that a thing? Look, come on, I'll say it one more time: so we're reaching out, come on, hold this hand we're holding. The country's going to hell. Where the law stinks, democracy doesn't work where the law is cuckoo. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0047par0036	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked against the group's proposal Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0048par0039	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group demanding that the parliamentary inquiry of the Constitution and the European Union be proposed by the People's Party Group to be brought to the agenda by Articles 98 of the Constitution and Internal Charter, in order to establish solutions, in order to ensure that the judiciary will be served in the standards set by our Constitution and the European Union's Convention on Human Rights. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been made legal arrangements in many areas in the period of the EC PARTI to speed up the judiciary, to resolve the problems of the judiciary as a whole, to increase the standards of judicial workers to work as a whole, and to free use of basic rights and freedoms, to dominate the state sense of serving people, not people working for the state. At the moment of the trial's speed, the courthouse buildings were removed from the basements, in a decent state, equipped with technological possibilities. In these places again, he's met and started working with judicial technology. These actions are not limited to local courts, but the high courts have moved to places that are appropriate for the age. The Court and the State Department have increased the number of apartments and members, and the waiting period for the files on the appeal has been shortened. The formation of the Constitutional Court has been democratised, and individual applications have been opened. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been restructured and its structure has been democratised, and the judges and prosecutors have been given the right to choose and be elected. Dear MPs, Republican People's Party spokesman, unfortunately, have long voiced our country's claims that the most journalists in the world have become known as the imprisoned, convicted country. Our government officials have made several statements about this, but the Republican People's Party continues to insist on not seeing it. The Republican People's Party continues to complain to the world in violation of the fact that Turkey is convicted of different crimes under the name of the journalist. The truth, however, is completely different. The real issue on this issue is this: A list of 49 people has been published by the International Journalists' Protection Committee in December 2012 by Mr. Justice Minister in a written response to Mr. Speaker Hope Oran. In the examination of the ministry's records, 6 of the 49 people mentioned in the report have been released, 7 have been released, 36 have been imprisoned in criminal execution institutions, 7 have been tried to kill, shoot, plunder, charge of explosives, commit fraud in official documents, terrorist organization; report, broadcast and propaganda have been sentenced on behalf of the organization; bombing, injury, destruction, arson of property, arson; attempted chaos in the country over 2°, and attempted coup attempt to participate in high-level meetings of the terrorist organization; involvement in terrorist organization, propaganda and organization on behalf of the organization; report, broadcast and propaganda have been issued on behalf of journalists; it is not understood that there is a crime against us, and that there are no criminal prosecutions in the country; there is no criminal charges against those who are being indicted, and there are not guilty. And our hope is that they will be acquitted and exonerated as a result of these judgments. However, it is also important to point out that even those who are directly involved in violence, which constitutes the limit of freedom of expression, we see the defensive reflex as the search for a privileged class in crime. This, unfortunately, has been mentioned in the past by certain circles for different segments, and is said for journalists today. There is no legal state in the world that will tolerate acts of violence that are not directly related to freedom of press and expression. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, Turkey has made many arrangements since 2002 to grant long sentences and a reasonable period of trial. As a result of these provisions, the period of imprisonment, the number of arrests and the time of trial has been improved according to 2002 data.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0049par0048	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0048par0049	In this context, our governments have taken many steps to resolve legal and structural problems in order to increase the speed and efficiency of the judiciary during the period of EC PARTY governments. The solution to some problematic practices -- which are the last resort to the process of imprisonment in which a sentence is not fixed and no judgment has yet been reached -- and the basic provision for the right to freedom and security in this way has been carried out by the law known as the Third Judicial Package, known in public. Again, regulations have also been made in favour of those who are sick because of the amendment to the Law on Penalty and Security Measures, which was adopted during the General Assembly's session on January 24, 2013. In this case, the ban on imprisonment has been lifted to two years in order to reduce the difficulties and criticism of the arrest. In order for those who are more careful to make arrests, arrest warrants are required to be justified with concrete facts. Thus, when the courts of each concrete event decide, they will have to justify their decisions in detail. Again, the scope of the judicial control exercise has been extended, with an alternative to the arrest of CMK 109, with a change in Article 5271, and it has been decided that instead of the arrest of the suspect, the arrest of the suspect should be taken into judicial control. Again, with the latest regulation, the path to the reprieve and evacuation of the convicted felons and inmates has been opened. Following these actions, to inform you of the rate of imprisonment in the criminal execution institutions, 104,313 prisoners in 373 penal institutions as of December 31, 2012, 76.7 per cent; 31,707 prisoners in the proportion of 23.3 per cent. These figures rose to the highest level of the last 12 years in 2001, at 50.4%, with regulations, with judicial packages and legal regulations, down to 23.3 per cent of the number of prisoners as of December 31, 2012. The average 3m annual criminal cases in Turkey are being processed, and according to this data, the rate of detention in all criminal cases is 1.05 per cent. Regarding the detained times, 23.718 prisoners between zero and one year are 74.80 per cent; between two and three years, 1.665 per cent, 5.25 per cent; between six and seven years 0.10 per cent; between nine and ten years 0.01 per cent. In 31,707 prisoners, 0-one year is 74.80 per cent; one-three years is 21.48 per cent; three years and three percent is 3.71 per cent. Thus, between one and three years, the proportion of prisoners is 96.28 percent of all prisoners. The number of prisoners over three years can be a problem is 1,177 in 31,707 prisoners. In a number of cases that can be considered long imprisonment and which are closely monitored by the public, the number of prisoners for seven years and more years is 16. Of the three who have been arrested between nine and ten years, one of the three are tried for establishing, establishing and killing a criminal organization for profit purposes, two of the four prisoners who have been imprisoned for eight to nine years, two of them for eliminating constitutional order, and two of them for enforcing, managing, killing, and killing, changing constitutional order; of the nine who have been imprisoned for seven to eight years; of the nine who have been imprisoned for eight years, establishing, managing, gun trafficking, gun killing, killing, trafficking, drug trafficking; of the four prisoners who have been imprisoned for eight years. There are two different reasons why arrest for these names is so long: they are being tried for different crimes and the width of the scope of the file. In addition, some of these people continue to be judged according to the disparity decisions issued after their appeals at the Supreme Court. There is a centre in the University of Essex, England, under the name Cezaevi Studies Centre. This center was founded in 1997. The centre is an institution compiling international prison data, publishing reports about it, conducting academic research and operating. The data of this organization is available to everyone on the website. When this data is examined, the average rate of imprisonment in EU countries is 25.2 per cent, while Turkey is 23.3. We want to shed light on a controversial area and continue the discussion through the correct data, not in terms of seeing the data in the positive direction as we make this assessment. In that sense, he declares that we do not agree with what he just said, in order for the Parliament to work on the normal agenda, that I am against the CHP group proposal, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0050par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0051par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0050par0065	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0051par0066	Sir, he said I had false statements about something, and I'd like to correct it, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0050par0067	What did he say about what he said that you said wrong?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0051par0068	He said a statement I made regarding the International Committee for Protection of Journalists did not tell the lie, the truth.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0050par0069	Here you go. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0051par0072	Now, dear friends, are we here to eat grapes, or to beat the laces? I just put some people out here, so we're all human, right? We all have a conscience. God is above us, God is watching you, God is watching us, so let's put our hands on a conscience. I mean, is it possible that the judgment works differently? I mean, can there be judgment by person, can there be law by person? I just told you, so look, I'll be very clear about the journalists: I have friends here who are in there. Last week, the General Assembly of the European Union's Karma Parliamentary Commission was held here. Each speaker criticised what was working in Turkey for the freedom of the press, basic rights and freedoms of Turkey, each European parliamentary speaker. We are citizens of this country, and we are members of this country, and we are the main opposition party in this country, and we are sad. We can't blame you, we say: "Come, let's do it together." Look, I'll tell you the numbers: right now, we're in the process of full membership of all international institutions, the European Parliament, you know. You have your signature, we're in the process of full membership in the European Union. The European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the European Commission, the Committee for Protection of International Journalists, has declared Turkey the world's most imprisoned journalist prison. Are you happy with that? Are you proud of it? Come on, we say we fix this, and look, in the last October, the International Committee for Protection of Journalists wrote 61 journalists, all their professions were journalists, one by one. The Minister of Justice didn't send me an article, he didn't answer my questions. Then let the Minister of Justice say: "These 61 journalists -- some of them may have been evacuated, some may have been 49 -- these are the things of this crime." The Minister of Justice has no right to make decisions on the current judiciary, and the trial is under way. Can we call him a terrorist? And we don't trust the numbers the Minister of Justice has given us right now. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0052par0075	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Ali Uzırmak, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0053par0081	Mr. President, I have pledged on behalf of my group that the Republican People's Party Group has made a motion to determine ways to resolve the issues it has suffered by establishing justice, first-degree courts and other complementary elements of the judiciary in order to ensure that our Constitution and the European Union's Human Rights Convention shall be served in accordance with its standards. I salute you all. When we look at the purpose of the motion, it's a motion that can't really be supported. It's a motion in accordance with human rights and justice, which requires the Council to take initiative. So, can this motion be avoided or avoided for what reasons? Is such a thing necessary in Turkey's circumstances today? Dear lawmakers, the initiative of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has become an absolute state. Because justice is the foundation of property in a country. If a word called "justice" has become a stereotype in a court of law, then the High Assembly must first discuss whether this philosophy works or doesn't work. When we look at it today, justice is the foundation of property. Is it valid in Turkey? No, it's not, dear friends. Justice is no longer the basis of the state, no longer the main duty of the state; the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been made a prisoner of the majority in law and control activities, and in this country, ruling in such a logical manner has become an official. Dear lawmakers, Parliament must take initiative. Why? Look, I'd like to share a joke with you to identify the source of the problem: Bekri Mustafa Sultanahmet is an imam. Friday prayer was performed. There's too many people in the congregation, there's a funeral. Bekri Mustafa said something in the ear of the funeral after he performed the funeral prayer. The congregation wondered, he said, "Bekri Mustafa, what did you say? You're talking to the dead now. And Bekri Mustafa said: "When you go to the afterlife, what's going on in the other world?" If they ask you, Bekri Mustafa Sultanahmet was an imam, think about what happened to that country. Yes, today we live in a Turkey where knowledge doesn't rule, politics doesn't govern, politics is turned into a show art, lies, rhymes, slander. Justice does not prevail in Turkey, but in the power of the fittest. The Pashas are thrown out, innocent citizens are thrown out, and everything, everything, is wanted to be checked out. Dear lawmakers, there's no way there's anything else going on in a country where there's no justice. From the existence of mankind to this day, there are two emotions that have been pursued, and neither anywhere, nor in the North Pole, nor in the South Pole, nor in Ecuador. Justice and prosperity have led mankind to these two. The most important duty of rulings, governments should be to provide people with justice and, in the first place, prosperity. If a government thinks they're supplying them with lies, there's no way that power can last. The sun doesn't roll with clay. Of course, today they can dominate the press, the execution can dominate many areas, but there will be days when the sun cannot be covered with clay. Look, dear lawmakers, the nationalism discipline I've received limits some of my words in terms of what I'm going to say to the office he's occupied, but I'd like to entrust some of their consciences and initiatives if we have friends inside the AKP who have identified themselves as nationalists, and if we share yesterday with them. The Prime Minister's accusation of nationalism by mixing publicism with racism and nationalism, like a abandonment, is a demeaning attitude to a statesman; ignorance, ignorance, if not ignorance, means a purpose, dear friends. The esteemed MPs, Mr. President and the legislators, can't go to certain parts of Turkey through certain areas. Mr. Prime Minister is expressing certain things, and Mr. Prime Minister -- he doesn't even know the recent history -- so that he can understand what it's become. I have the indictment of the September 12th Courts' National Movement Party; I have the letter of the late Alparslan Türkesh Sir, who wrote to the Chief of Staff of the Age, President Kenan Evren, stating how nationalism was charged, why it was charged and who would blame it. And in my hand, Ibrahim Bayoğlu-Urfa, Cengiz Baktemur, Malatya (1982), Metin Olgac-Mardin (1977), Mustafa Kuşaslan-Diyarbaır (1977). Now, Mr. Prime Minister, how can you express a certain region of Turkey as a prime minister? This movement, Turkish nationalists, the National Movement Party, has been martyred here, and without knowing it, without seeing it, what are you accusing the Nationalist Movement Party of? Dear lawmakers, when is nationalism in a country accused by whom? This question should be asked by our citizens, who have all sincere Turkish citizenship and who have been banned by the Republic of Turkey, in the first place, by you valued lawmakers. When Turkish nationalism is charged by whom and who? There's only one answer we'll get when we ask: "In an occupied country, nationalism is charged or it's become the fifth branch of other countries, and it's blamed by the unawares who carry the citizenship of that country." I entrust it to the conscience of you dear friends. Dear friends, what is nationalism? Without accurate understanding of definitions, recipes, concepts, you're able to eliminate everything with definitions that you define science, law without basis. Nationalism, first of all, is to be the pro-value of a nation, the values that a nation produces, the nationality, the pro-nationality, the pro-national values. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you say ethnic nationalism, there's no such thing as ethnic nationalism. The nation understands its integrity, the nation embraces its integrity, nationalism, nationalism, and nationhood. So, Mr. Prime Minister, you call it regional nationalism, is there such a nationalism? You will defend Turkish nationalism and defend one region against another. Nationalism is a term that understands the whole nation. Well, it says religious nationalism, Mr. Prime Minister. That's where the fucker's calling it. There is no such thing as religious nationalism. Religion is one of the attributes of the people. If by "people," you mean "people," you can only be a political nationalist. In order to conceal it, I am opposed to religious nationalism by wearing a religious ornament in front of nationalism to condemn nationalism. So, I'm taking an idea system underfoot, especially to say that a Prime Minister, an idea is a very unbecoming attitude to a human being, which is unbecoming. The Prime Minister of a country cannot accuse the nationalism of its country as an intellectual system. It may say that the nationalist strugglers have made mistakes, but blaming an idea is an inappropriate attitude for a Prime Minister. It is dedicated to nationalists in the AKP. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0054par0096	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0055par0099	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I declare that we are against the group proposal of the Republican People's Party. The Republican People's Party orator has requested a concession to those who are imprisoned here in prison. The 10th article of the Constitution is clear. According to Article 10 of the Constitution, all are equal before the law. No one can ask for privileges in a trial. No one can interfere with the ongoing judicial process.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0056par0102	We took the Undersecretary of MIT, we intervened. How did we get him?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0055par0103	Congressman, journalist, soldier...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0056par0104	We've got the Undersecretary of MIT in front of the judge.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0055par0105	No-one, no-one, no-one, can ask for privileges in the trial.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0056par0106	So there's been an intervention.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0055par0107	Being a congressman, being a journalist, being a soldier, being a civilian...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0056par0108	Answer me that!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0057par0109	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0055par0110	However, they may demand a fair trial. If there's a problem with a fair trial, they can only be partial to it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0058par0111	Five years? Five years?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0059par0112	Where is Hakan, Hakan?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0055par0113	On the other hand, the National Movement Party orator, here...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0059par0114	Where's Hakan?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0060par0115	Do you have five years in prison?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0061par0116	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0062par0117	...Mr. Prime Minister has given a speech that is unbecoming and uncalled for.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0063par0118	Where is Hakan, Hakan?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0062par0119	Mr. Prime Minister, nationalism...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0064par0120	How did you release Firat Anlı, the number of the ACK? The ACK people have been released.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0063par0121	Where's Hakan?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0064par0122	There's no interference there?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0065par0123	Mr Turkkan, please take your seat. Excuse me, please.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0064par0125	You've released the KCK people to negotiate with the PKK.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0066par0126	Guys, we've been listening to you, calm down.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0064par0127	Is that a lie? She's having a conversation...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0066par0128	This isn't a place for conversation.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0067par0129	This isn't a chat room, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0068par0130	Five years... five years... five years without question! The sick man, on his deathbed...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0066par0131	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our Prime Minister, sees nationalism as serving this nation...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0069par0132	Where's a nationalism recipe like that?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0070par0133	You're negotiating with the ACK people.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0071par0134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0072par0135	Mr. Aslanoglu... [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Please allow the speaker to complete his speech.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0138	...to raise the public's level of prosperity.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0074par0139	You're cooperating with the PKK, with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). You're sending BDP to Sinop.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0140	Those who leave the banks empty, those who remain silent, those who are on the throne of power in an environment where interest hits 1,000 per cent at night, have no right to question the Prime Minister's nationalism, no right to question its nationalism. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Prime Minister's speech against nationalism is against racially-based showmanship.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0075par0143	Do you have any racist nationalists?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0076par0144	Once the Prime Minister uses the word Turkish.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0145	Those who condemn the future of the state to the mortgage of the IMF will not have the right to question the Prime Minister's nationalism. He rejects racial nationalism, religious nationalism, public nationalism. But that doesn't work for you because the Peace and Democracy Party and the National Movement Party are unfortunately feeding on it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0076par0146	Of course, we don't need to know if we're PKK people, if we're PKK people or what we're supposed to do!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0077par0147	Are we going to change the Turkish flag, too?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0148	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the satisfaction of those who have been given quality in our justice services as EC PARTY.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0076par0149	You're from the PKK as an AK PARTY from now on. That's what people know now.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0150	That's the measure of what we call quality. There is no mention of the quality of a judicial service that has failed to raise the level of satisfaction across the country. In quality, reasonable time in the services of justice...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0076par0151	This is the PKK government. Change your name, make PKK government.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0152	There are many factors such as the low proportions of law enforcement, the lack of the amount of legal error detected in law enforcement, universal democracy and a parallel understanding of human rights. Increased levels of satisfaction will only be possible with the implementation of these elements. In our country, quality in the services of justice meets at the delay of a large number of trials for today. While the Ministry of Justice is focused on all aspects of quality, it is naturally focused on the problem. Our first policy here is to reduce the workload of judicial bodies. That's the understanding of the judicial package that dominates our legislation last year and this year. Because understanding that waits for every conflict in law and punishment to be resolved before a trial is not a rational understanding. In essence, there is no such judicial system on the world's countries. Therefore, the change in legislation is necessary in not condemning our citizens to unresolvedness, the rational, practical solution of discrepancies.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0078par0154	Why haven't you done it in ten years?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0155	Increase the number of judges in strengthening the higher judicial body, increase the number of personnel as long as the problem continues, it will be increased. Another element is the infrastructure problem. The construction of new palaces of justice will continue to be provided with technological facilities and the decorations of court palaces.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0079par0157	If the palaces of justice are growing in this country, justice is over.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0073par0158	We must act on the belief that further strengthening our country's democracy will only result in changes in the infrastructure of legislation and mental structure. Therefore, while we care about the preparations for the Constitution, we must rehabilitate our basic laws as far as the 82 Constitution has given us. The solution to the quality of justice, such as a reasonable trial, or more qualified trial, will be possible only by reducing the workload within reasonable limits. Mr. President, it would be unfair to ask a court judge who's been in court with hundreds of files to give him the right time for every job to be done. Compared to European countries, the judge and the state's attorney's office clearly do not have our deficit at the desired level. The Ministry of Justice is continuing its work to close this gap. It is also intended to bring responsibility to the management of the resolution of conflicts, to bring the Notary Law into action, to bring in institutions such as alternative conflict solutions, intermediary establishments. This is the minimum for a number of crimes to be imposed on administrative sanctions in the past period, notaries to issue probate notices, to facilitate peace and waivement in cases where the administration is a party, as I have already said -- to be brought into action. The number of Supreme Court and Prosecutor's Offices has been increased so that judicial services can be carried out more effectively, quickly and efficiently. Law No. 6217 has been modified to reduce military law, executive and bankruptcy law, passport law, forest law, notary law, law enforcement, court law, population law, Turkish civil law, and effective use of the judiciary. Again, the effective use of judicial services and the effective use of judicial services in Law 6352 have reduced the workload of local courts, as a crime against the administrative sanction, as a crime against the use of electricity theft, by the Supreme Court and Prosecutor's Office. In short, I want to brief you that 650,000 files a year have been filed to the Supreme Court over the past four years, 550,000 cases have been filed each year, and 100,000 files have been put on hold. The total number of files that have been put on hold in four years has reached 650,000, and in 2011 the number has been 1,150,000, and has now descended from 1,150,000 to 880,000. This means that the purpose is achieved with the package of judgment. The volume of the judicial and local courts' workload has been reduced by one-third. So we're on a good road. As of 2008, the Supreme Court ruled 138,000 cases as of the year 2009, 106, and 103, as of 2010. So we're on a good track, and we're going to continue with the judicial package. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as I've just said, the Republican People's Party's proposal is to extend the agenda. That's why I say we disagree with the group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0080par0170	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0081par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0080par0172	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0081par0173	He said I twisted what I said about me, and I want to say it again.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0080par0174	What did he say, Mr. Oran?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0081par0175	The Republican People's Party speaker just said it was about journalists or MPs... or at work he saw them as privileged, twisting his words. I'd like to make myself clear.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0080par0176	So you don't see it as privileged? I don't know what he meant.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0081par0177	I mean, he said I twisted it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0080par0178	I mean, what words did he tease you with?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0081par0179	I'm telling you, look, I'm saying that the People's Party orator of the Republic has made distorted statements about the MPs. And I'd like to give him an explanation, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0080par0180	No, one thing is to clarify, one thing is to ask for words because of bullying. That's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0081par0181	No, but it means I'm twisting it, and I'm not...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0082par0182	Mr. President, isn't this a taunting of the distortion, sir?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0080par0183	Here you go, Mr. Oran, two minutes, I promise. Without further ado, please.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0081par0186	Dear friends, I mean, here's my goal, not to eat grapes, not to beat the laces, as I just described. There's no point in always pointing fingers at each other. We're actually saying something here. We're talking about whether we should set up a research commission or not. Look, the numbers are on your Justice Department website. In 1980 -- I just told you -- there are 78 thousand prisoners, 59 thousand prisoners in 2002, 128 thousand prisoners in 2012, 138 thousand in 2013. Are you satisfied with the result? We called it equal and swift judgment, just judgment. Look, on average, a trial in commercial courts is 323 days, on average 315 days in a court of law, 488 days in business courts, 900 days in private court. Guys, we all need this law, and you need it tomorrow. So let's take this one by hand, create a working environment about it, and if there's any loose ends, let's all go together. Is there anything wrong here? I mean, is there anything here that we need to do? Why don't we give this a hand? So you have to say no to everything? So when you leave here four years later, when you say no to everything, will you be given a medal, a commendation, or a special reward? Isn't our goal here to establish the will of the nation? Look, you've got everything under your feet. You're undermining the law, you're undermining justice, you're undermining basic rights, but know that as long as it's a 90-year-old Republican People's Party, you will not be able to undermine Turkish nationalism, nationalism.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0083par0191	Mr. President, there's a taunting of our party. A racist thought, a racist head vomited on the skull, and now we're going to give it back to you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0084par0192	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0085par0193	He called us racists. Skullism, racial nationalism...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0084par0194	No, why, it wasn't understood once, because your Deputy Director of the Group was talking.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0085par0195	He made some accusations, saying with a racist understanding, and he had some words about dedication.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0084par0196	Here you go, Mr. Longneck, and I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0085par0198	Congressmans, would you describe Hitler as a racist, or would you describe him as a nationalist? Hitler is a rasis, a racist, not a nationalist. Don't confuse racism with nationalism. It's not an obstacle to our beliefs, it's a valuable lawmakers and nationalism that we understand... if you say there are functions that separate Turkish nationalism from other nationalism? Of course, there are, because our belief system has banned racism by accepting Islam's message as the reality of nationalism above all else. Thus, we advocate a nationalism that also receives its source from Islam. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's no point in deflecting these things. By mixing racism with nationalism, without understanding concepts, without understanding recipes, without basing them on science, memorizing them in the Prime Minister's method, transforming politics into show art would be counterintuitive. Turkey is suffering because there are already trials and errors in the rule of people who have not developed the idea of the world and of the people who have not developed the world and of the idea. Look, every minister of your national education has made a statement, every minister of yours has changed the system, changed the method, changed the curriculum. The judgment packets are coming. Why don't you do a radical reform? Let's look into CHP's proposal, let Parliament take initiative, let it be taken care of at once. Why don't you spread it around like patched-up bundles? You brought back the Turkish Trade Law, you didn't argue, you brought back 50 articles before it even went into effect. These trial and error methods are because you don't have the initiative, because you don't have the schedule. Here's the letter of the late Alparslan Turkesh Sir. About the trial of nationalism. I'm giving it to the Speaker of Parliament to enter into the Parliament's records. Who's judging nationalism, who's studying here. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0086par0203	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0087par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0086par0205	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0087par0208	Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, we know that our nation's name in this geography is Turkish nation, and we use the sovereignty of the great Turkish nation here. So today, I would like to point out that this mentality, which describes the Turkish national movement as a racial expression of the sociological truth of the Turkish nation, is actually a mental state that underpins the memory of the great Turkish nation on its way to the stand here in front of the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0086par0210	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, ranking 1st. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Ministry of Health's Public Special Co-operation Model on Building, Renewal and Service drafts by Tokat MP Şükrü Ayalan and Çanırı MP İdris Şahin and 4 MPs; some Laws and Laws Governments Proposal to Change Decisions and Plans and Budget Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. In yesterday's merger, Article 1 was adopted in the first chapter of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, there are two motions on Article 2 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the current bill. Article 1 of the article. Adding the following sentence to the end of the joke, 2. And 4. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural You've brought Lightning Ali Self Reşat Right "In the event there is more than 10% difference between preliminary feasibility reports and certain feasibility reports, it will be approved by the High Planning Board again." (2) The ministry and its subsidiaries can do the renovation of facilities available on the basis of the project and the basis to be determined, in exchange for providing certain services other than medical services at the facilities and/or operating commercial services and/or paying the price. 4) According to this Law, he is the top manager of the department concerned with the central organisation of the Ministry and its institutions. During the operation of the facility, the contract is run by the top manager of the rural unit concerned with the authority and responsibility to spend it. From return capital sources, the spending authority for this legislation can be transferred to assistants or the nearest lower-level executives within the limits set by the Ministry. (x) 417 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 67th Unification Charter, dated 19/02/2013. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the current bill. In the article, the term "properly in favour of the contractor by the Ministry of Finance" is to be changed by the Ministry of Finance solely in favor of the contractor for the hospital campus," and also, 2 and 3. I demand that the joke be taken out of the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Izzet Cetin Rahmi Küreli of Love Free Special Mehmet Sugar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0088par0251	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0086par0252	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0089par0253	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0086par0254	Hülya Güven, Izmir MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0090par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Parliament have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Public Special Co-operation 417, to discuss the motion we made as Republican People's Party on Article 2 of the Law on Building, Reconstruction and Service. Members of parliament, this bill mentions an independent and permanent upper rights agreement that will be established without charge in favour of the private property of the treasure, the contractor, in favour of the private sector. The government will present a large estate to the firm that won the tender, the commercial area, the mall, the cafeteria, the homes, the business centers; meanwhile, it will pay at least six times the rent cost of the building to build 2,000, 3,000-bed hospitals. Again, it is not clear how the abandoned hospitals will be given to the contractor. In many uncertainties, it is unclear how our citizens expect health care because the private sector and the public's interests are not shared. The public doesn't profit from health, they don't expect profit, but for private firms, it's about profit. Today, our disabled can't get their medical supplies, equipment, hearing aids, they can't get their prosthetics. The contributions they have to pay have their backs bent. After these hospitals start working, will our disabled be able to buy medical supplies, equipment, which they are having trouble getting today because of their contribution, or will they have to pay for all the materials they're paying for today? Again, are the patients going to pay the full price for their treatments? Members of lawmakers, if the government today presents property under the name of hospital campus to the private company, if the government handles maintenance repairs of medical equipment taken to use in the hospital, maintenance repairs of the hospital building's worn-out areas, and even pays at least six times the cost of construction, then our citizens must be able to receive treatment without paying a contribution. Isn't that right? Yesterday, Mr. Health Minister said there was no contribution in family medicine. I guess the Minister doesn't know his contribution. Do you know that there are at least 10 kinds of contributions today? Moreover, due to their contributions to ▪Sembolic, our pensioners can't take their medication to be treated. When three people in the same family get sick and go to the hospital, mothers often leave treatment conditions to their children because they face at least 100 lira in contributions. So we have women who can't get treatment. Today, the Association of Public Hospitals has been established, many chiefs of medicine, assistant chiefs, managers, vice principals have lost their rights overnight. I mean, there's a law, a lot of people have been suspended from their duties for no reason, and their monthlys have been reduced. And how do you know that the people who work for city hospitals don't expect the same results? In the future, there is uncertainty about what awaits existing health workers; what is the working model of physicians, and what is not explained. Your government is trying to run the state as a business, and is trying to privatize it to get rid of the burden of health and education. Today's health, tomorrow's education will be privatized, and in the future, we will face an unhealthy and uneducated population. Then what is the AKP government planning to do for the measure? He asks, "Will he bring people from abroad who are educated and healthy to run the government? I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0091par0267	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the current bill. Article 1 of the article. Adding the following sentence to the end of the joke, 2. And 4. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends If the cost of preliminary feasibility reports and certain feasibility reports differ by more than 10 per cent, it will be approved by the High Planning Board. (2) The ministry and its subsidiaries can do the renovation of facilities available on the basis of the project and the basis to be determined, in exchange for providing certain services other than medical services at the facilities and/or operating commercial services and/or paying the price. (4) Under this Law, the tender authority for tenders is the top director of the department concerned with the central organisation of the Ministry and its institutions. During the operation of the facility, the executive of the rural unit concerned with the authority and responsibility to spend the contract belongs to the top manager. From return capital sources, the spending authority for this legislation can be transferred to assistants or the nearest lower-level executives within the limits set by the Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0092par0277	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0091par0278	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0093par0279	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0091par0280	Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0094par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment by the Ministry of Health, which has been held in 417 rows, to express my views on the 2nd Article of the Law on Building, Restoration and Service on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group. I salute the High Council. First of all, the fact that this bill does not come to the Health Commission makes it clear to us what the goal is to actually be reached and reached by this bill. One of the two basic things that this bill brings, I think, is that if one of the two essential things that actually means that the new city hospitals in health care should be transferred to someone else, then if it was considered what the citizens would have done to them at the point of their services in health care, then it would have to be discussed by the valued members of the Health Commission. In the end, we're discussing a project, a model, for our country, where foreign capital, in particular, will run hospitals for 25 years. It is required that the old hospitals will be removed from city centers along with the new city hospitals, and the hospital places will be transferred to the TOİKI, or to the contractor company. This model does not increase hospital bed capacity in the provinces; rather, it imposes on the state the model to privatise in health by making it pay new prices with financial burdens. Here we are talking about a bill that is the final phase of privatisation of health without being called privatisation. This law paves the way for subcontractors of health care, and it is clear that it will bring the cost of working in health care. While there is no incentive and support for local investors for public and private hospitals, it is garanteur to those who will build this hospital with foreign capital. Any money the government will pay will be brought with support from the tenants, such as inflation and currencies updates. Rents will go up every three months, and the government will pay even higher. With 88 hospitals planned to build the country, it is clear that Turkey will not need a bed in the hospitals in 2015, but it is in fact intended to provide something to someone. Dear friends, there is an Istanbul Legal Sultan Education Research Hospital... which I visited by TOKI in the summer. I want to make it clear to you exactly what our fellow lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party have expressed in defending this bill: you use phrases such as clearing the way for doing new things in health care in the country. I would like to express to you how large the rooms of a hospital that was actually built are, and that there is a hospital model in which the state can take serious advantage of the health of the country without having to put it in a serious way, without going into serious trouble, without preferring the rental model, and with its infrastructure being well-equipped, without harming the country's economy. So there's no point in defending public-special partnership because we're doing better in health. What does that bring us? It brings opportunity to establish other facilities in the area of the hospital, especially in the process of giving contracts to consortiums away from the Public Contraction Act, leading the tender, mixing it with corruption, and tendering it to an address; allowing foreign capital to allow local investors to compete, setting up grounds for the removal of the return capital guarantee. With the shopping malls to replace the closing hospitals, it opens the way for practices that will take their lives instead of giving life to the already hard and scarce tradesman in the city centers. An excuse to open a hospital to this model is to create a real purpose operator. It's amazing. Of course, in other words, you're doing the math for the person who kills two birds with one stone. We think that this bill is not a model, a partnership that neither citizens nor employees nor the state needs in health care. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0095par0292	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd draft of the current bill. Article 7. To change the joke (d) in the following way, 8. And nine. We offer and propose that his jokes be removed from the article text. Mehmet Günal Cemalettin Simsek Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Reşat Right Ali Öz After an open reduction, the tender will be decided on this willingness to negotiate with the lowest bidder, according to the feasibility of the administration." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd draft of the current bill. Article 3. Eight with a joke. The removal of the joke (a) and (c) dams from the draft text, 7. The third one in his joke (d). And 4. We offer and propose that sentences be removed from the draft text. ♪ The dawn of love ♪ ♪ Stop it, Ozbolat ♪ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Gürkut Acar Bkent Kuşoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0096par0312	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0095par0313	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0097par0314	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0095par0315	Yes, it's Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0098par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have a more burning agenda than the law we discussed. In Turkey, all concepts, such as law, justice, democracy, division of forces, the Constitution, have been destroyed. What I experienced in Silivri the other day is part of it. Along with our fellow congressmen, we made it to court through narrow corridors, surrounded by fortified steel and iron fences, two human-sized cages. Meanwhile, our congressman, Istanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, unfortunately injured in his foot, had surgery because his heel was broken. I wish him well from here. It was like going into a concentration camp with prisoners of war, not a courtroom. Such a court, such a trial is unacceptable. We know there's no justice in this court. Is there justice in a court that doesn't need evidence collected, doesn't listen to witnesses, doesn't need to? No witness of the defendants has been heard. By proportioning it, the court supposedly avoided me by saying, "I heard a witness at this rate." Likewise, there was no justice outside the court. Citizens who came to watch the hearing there faced, as usual, a pressured water and pepper gas attack by the AKP (AKP). This attack is an attack by the Justice and Development Party. It's not the police commissioner or the governor who's responsible for this, because it's happening to everyone who's making a noise all over Turkey. Pepper gas and pressure water are the tools of the AKP's advanced democracy, which our people will never forget. Turkey will never forget the AKP, not its citizen, but the AKP, who tried to protect its courts with pepper spray and pressurised water. My dear friends, in Turkey now, the defense of justice is under attack. Occupational organisations, trade unions; each institution, institution, which makes noise, explains different views, faces the wrath of the Justice and Development Party. Either these institutions are being silenced or they're being silenced by the AKP. Now it's the lawyers' turn, and their organization is at the bar. Lawyers' offices, workplaces are published in violation of the law, wanted, turned upside down. Lawyers are being kicked, dragged on the floor, taken into custody and tried to be disciplined by long-term arrests. Bars are forbidden to defend their rights. This is what happened to the Istanbul Bar, the coup d'état of the right to defend. Those who rub their hands on this blow, those who think they're going to take over the Istanbul Bar, let them not forget that our colleagues are determined and confident in defending their right to defend their rights, occupational organisations, and barrooms. Those who seek to take over the bar with their members' votes, not by conspiracy, but by footplay, will never forget the history of law, justice, nor will they ever forgive. Dear friends, where there is no justice, nothing survives or survives. Unfortunately, those who are currently running our state are dragging Turkey into a abyss. The constitutional principles are being destroyed one by one. The legal state is in the Constitution, but not in the practice. Defense rights are in writing, but they're not actually there. The principle of secularism, which is the basis of our state, was effectively destroyed by the AKP's power, which is in the Constitution, but does not exist. Democracy, freedom of the press, it's on paper, but it doesn't exist. The integrity of the country is in the Constitution, but it does not exist. The Constitutional decree on the official language of Turkish is on paper, not in effect. My dear friends, I'm afraid we're in a process like this. The ruling operations against KESK have brought back the September 12th coup days when every legal union has become an illegal organization at any time. It's our citizens' responsibility here. All patriots will stop this going on. I believe that from the bottom of my heart. I salute you all and the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0099par0326	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd draft of the current bill. Article 7. To change the joke (d) in the following way, 8. And nine. We offer and propose that his jokes be removed from the article text. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends After an open reduction, the tender will be decided on this willingness to negotiate with the lowest bidder, according to the feasibility of the administration." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0100par0334	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0099par0335	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0101par0336	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0099par0337	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0102par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I said it when I was talking about the general, but since I didn't have much time, I couldn't bring myself to mention it all. Now, here, let me give you your attention, my fellow congressmen, see if you're comfortable with this. It says: "As a result of an open reduction, the lowest bidder is willing to proceed to the final negotiating stage in accordance with the feasibility of the administration. " After the final negotiation, if the offer of the willing is acceptable, the tender will be made upon the willing, if it is found suitable, according to what? No. You've already made a normal tender, you've made a deficit, you're negotiating with the lowest bidder out there; he hasn't landed-- sorry-- you're doing the lowest, you're making a tender; there's a head side, I've reread it because you haven't read it. Now, it goes on behind it, and it's more critical: if the first volunteer's offer is not acceptable to the administration, then the second most economically advantageous bidder will continue the final negotiation with the willing. Let our friends inform us again if you don't know what an open reduction is. There's already been an open reduction. I mean, everybody's offering, we're finding the lowest. We will ask you again: "Did he come down or did he not come down?" You know, in public ads, he says, "Come out another 50 lira in our memory." He's making ministers or a tender commission, something like that. You say you'll come back to something else, and that doesn't happen again. Now, really, I'm surprised that it's like this... the eighth joke comes from the opposite: that there's no bids, no bids, no bids, no one offers, you don't go out again. We called it natural disasters, pandemics or something. Most importantly, the (c) clause says that since the issue of the contract is unique and complex, you can make all of these tenders by negotiating. Because of its original quality, our ministry has only paid $19 million for counseling only for the Kayseri tender; see, feasibility in five years, preparation... why? Because there's not enough of the department's qualified element to keep up with all of them, technical issues. What does that mean, then? You can negotiate all of these hospital procedures. Really, you can't just write about the law in such a public way. I also told Mr. Akdağ, our former Minister, Mr. Muezzinoğlu. Let me put it this way, guys: three people came out of the tender, one of them was 100 lira, one of them was 110 lira, one of them was 120 lira. The 100-dollar company would normally win, wouldn't it, in your open bidding method, when you do it in closed envelopes? He's here, he's got bids from everyone in the open, he's got the lowest $100 offer. And then he tells me, "Mehmed, let's make a deal, let's get down a little bit, it's public business. I'm down to 95, okay. And then you go back to B and you go back to 94? More specifically: Look, the envelopes have arrived, you're in charge of the tender, you're making closed envelopes; you opened them, you opened them, and one of them's 110, one of them's 120. You've opened it, my brother, who's given 120, who's given a company A 100, who's reduced it to 99. Isn't that what you're saying? So if you open it up and you look at it and you say, "Come give it to 99." Isn't it called "under the lowest giver" or "instructing the contract"? We're officially responding to that right now. That doesn't have to be... we're clearing the way for this. Sir, let's do it; we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, let's negotiate. It's causing serious problems, it's causing doubts, and it's causing serious trouble, Mr. Secretary. There's no three-stage tender method, so it's obvious in what tenders this is going to happen, and it's already been issued for him; there's a certain amount of authority, and above certain amounts, there's a normal way of doing what, who has the authority to do what, what. We're making a completely private law here to the Ministry of Health, but I told you yesterday that this construction-business and public-private partnership model must be run by the coordination unit within the Ministry of Development. I think the Minister should withdraw this bill and reassess it without interference and come back with a total law, and I repeat it over and over again. And this is a motion that we made to get rid of the suspects in order to get ahead of them. I'm waiting for your support, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0103par0347	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the fourth article. I'll read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th draft of the current bill. Article 6. The last two sentences of his joke and seven. We offer and propose that the last sentence of his joke be removed from the article text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Izzet Cetin Rahmi Küreli of Love Free Special Mehmet Sugar Aylin Nazlıaka Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th draft of the current bill. Article 5. It's a joke, six. The last two sentences of his joke and seven. We offer and propose that the last sentence of his joke be removed from the article text. Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Öz Reşat You're right Lightning Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0104par0366	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0103par0367	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0105par0368	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0103par0369	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0106par0371	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 4 of the law we are negotiating. I salute the High Council. Of course, we're making a law fast again, and we'll see what comes after it. However, with this bill, private companies are allowed to build and operate health facilities in ways that we cannot understand or accept. So in health, no matter what anyone says, privatisation happens step by step. However, in our Constitution, the health of our people has been secured and preserved. Those guarantees are left aside, everything is handed over to the private sector and abandoned to their initiative. In Anatolia, many cities say that old hospitals will be destroyed and replaced by new hospitals. No one would object to new hospitals, but it's not right to turn it over to the private sector and give it 30 years. We'll rent, buy services. It's called. What is this, not privatisation? All services in hospitals are to be transferred to the private sector. In addition, the private sector has received a significant benefit, guaranteeing 70 per cent of its fullness. Besides, from hotel services around the hospital to restaurants, canteens, parking garages, all kinds of services have been transferred to private companies, and there's been a huge profit, isn't there? What is thought to be done must be evaluated over and over again. Our country is not rich. The living conditions of pensioners, workers, shopkeepers, civil servants, farmers are very heavy. Taxes collected from them should be better assessed, not given to anyone as a tornado. City hospitals can be built in other ways. The land near the great hospital today is very valuable. It is almost impossible for them. Can't the hospitals be built in exchange for these plots, or can't they be built in a system like this? Returning capital revenues also go to the hospital, so the rents are not paid for nothing. So the new rant doors don't form. It's weird, and I'm guessing the guru's rights would be better preserved. Besides, with this law, we have to think about what benefits and means to the staff. When the bill is examined, nothing appears to be happening. However, medical personnel are very victimized. The right to open their office has been taken from some people by the Ministry. In university hospitals, teachers who have raised themselves with great difficulty and serve society are very restless and very unhappy. Why don't we take care of these people? Especially from our university professors and professors, they're in a lot of trouble up to the others, and they're expecting some work from our new Minister in this direction. As a result, the rights to equity must be rearranged for health care personnel and the right to pension must be changed. See, a large number of physicians are suffering a great deal of damage right now. So the doctor works, he's going to retire, and he can't make a living on his retirement. They're calling from here one more time, we're calling on their behalf -- come, let's organize the work on these equity rights, at least in terms of the money given from the return capital, we'll make some adjustments at the point where those funds are immediately, as soon as they retire, reflect on them. Congressmans, of course, I'd like to make a point here. Since about 20 days now, 79 mayors have been going door to door in Ankara, going to all political parties and going to lawmakers. These mayors are the mayors who closed the municipalities on December 6, 2012, based on the number of censuses announced by the Turkish State of Turkey in 2011, according to the interim Article 2 of the Metropolitan Law, which took effect on December 6, 2012. The mayors insist on meeting with the minister, they want to talk to the Prime Minister, they want to talk to him about their problems, but they can't. I'd like to bring up their issues from here. Let's look at the history of 31/12/2012, and all of these mayors... are 79 municipalities, and 20 of them are slaps, so let's put a legal authority at the point where they don't close, or let's make a law or add a joke to the article. In this direction, we have to do what our mayors want, because they've left almost everything behind, they're here in Ankara, they're chasing people, they're chasing lawmakers, they're thinking about who can cure our problems, who can help us, how can we do our wounds. He says we should hear the voices of those people and not shut down those municipalities, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0107par0381	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th draft of the current bill. Article 6. The last two sentences of his joke and seven. We offer and propose that the last sentence of his joke be removed from the article text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0108par0388	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0107par0389	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0109par0390	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0107par0391	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0110par0393	Mr. President, I've been promised to explain my views on a motion on the Fourth Amendment of Bill 417. My respects to all of you. It's a law that fits the exact model of the AKP. Corruption, theft, the most perfect of all, the state's resources, certain business environments, a disgrace of a bill and a disgrace of the law, where certain ruling parties will be pursued for 30 years. Can you imagine, fellas? Now, it says that the health department and its institutions need a facility... What kind of facility? What facility? Describe it here. Is there a medical facility? No. He'll build a hotel, a bakery, something else, other places. For once, there's no such law. What part of the law do you correct? So no one who knows the legal technique, no one who knows the law technique, with this bill -- and I'm telling the Commission specifically, I'm telling the government -- can't face the House. It's a law that's convenient for Talana... with all kinds of shortcomings, corruption. Tomorrow, Mr. Recep will use the companies around him; Ankara, Istanbul, İzmir, and the most beautiful hospitals of İzmir, and after that, he will install buildings; he will share his men there for twenty-five years, and he will send after them. Is there an obstacle to that? No. Now, after that, Mr. Secretary, it says here: "What if, here, do you like this state of the Numune Hospital?" We don't like it, but you wash it, and what do you replace it with? Can you imagine, with a company that's going to settle, thirty years, he's going to say, "I've hired so many people, so many -- I don't know -- so many repairs, so many repairs. He'll always withdraw money from the government." Of course, let's do it because it's in accordance with the philosophy of today's AKP power. You didn't even leave the government. The government's debt exceeds $400 billion. Let's see what you do in a year. Now, my dear friends, indeed, in the time of the AKP, Turkey is faced with a great deal of chaos and adversity. Now, Recep Erdogan says: "I've taken all kinds of nationalism under my feet, I've broken it." The AKP guy says here just now: "Sir, the nationalism of AKP is the nationalism of serving the state, serving the nation." It does not say that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a modern, progressive, social law state based on Ataturk nationalism. Now, now, Recep, who are you to break this government! Who are you to break nationalism! You're a person who doesn't suit these people. You, the land of this land...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0111par0397	Who are you?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0112par0398	You're in love with your own executioner.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0110par0399	Look... ... Do you invade your land by the Greeks? I said it on this stand. 16 of our men have been invaded by Greeks.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0113par0401	You go to Tunceli.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0110par0402	The Greek Cypriot state has taken over 7,000km of our territory in Cyprus, and has agreed with the Israelis and produced oil here. You're the love of the state, you're the love of the nation! Friends, the land of a land is the honor and honor of those who possess the power of that land.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0114par0404	Go ask the people who bombed their land.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0110par0405	If the land of a country is occupied by a foreign country and it does not protect it, then they are not protecting their own honor and honor.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0114par0406	Go, keep the honor of my class.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0110par0407	Guys, I say, come on... Now, they say, "Sir, these islands are not occupied." I said, "Look, you're assigning a ship to take visitors to Abdullah Ocalan; so give us a ship, and let's go to these islands, see if they're really occupied or not, friends. Why are you running away? You can't be so insensitive. Masters, this country is ours. Tomorrow your children will ask you very expensive questions, and your children won't be able to go public. This state has been discredited by 326 MPs in your power; its lands have been occupied by foreigners, the state looted, the state's law destroyed; people have been in prison for five years and ten years for no reason. Don't you have any conscience, they say? You see, tomorrow your children and grandchildren will ask you a lot of questions. The important thing is that people don't lose their dignity, that the country owns its truth. This law will plunder the country.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0114par0409	Go and answer for the massacre of my class.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0110par0410	We'll see who wins.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0115par0412	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th draft of the current bill. Article 2. And 3. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Cemalettin Simsek Ali Öz Oktay Vural Reşat Right (2) No price can be paid before the production is completed. However, under the regulations set by the administration for partial adoptions in the case of the completion of the phase and partial service, the terms of the contract are sealed. (3) It is included in the tender document and in the contract under the rules laid out in accordance with regulations and regulations on how to calculate and pay the services to the contractor in exchange for services provided by the contractor. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th draft of the current bill. We propose and propose that the third sentence of the first clause be removed from the article text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Mehmet Sugar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0116par0435	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0115par0436	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0117par0437	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0115par0438	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0118par0439	Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0115par0440	Free Special, Manisa.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0119par0442	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First of all, I wish Mr. Minister Muezzinoglu here and once again the success of this difficult task he has now taken. But he's taken on a difficult task, and it's my main wish from him, and we hope he'll do something in this system that sees the health field as an industry, sees the patient as a customer, and sees the health workers as a slave, as a slave, but the AKP's policies are clear, and the Minister's mission is at the point of carrying out these policies, but I'd like to repeat it here once. Now, we're doing an important job. We are faced with an incredible proposal of law that will affect Turkey's healthcare and affect our economy for 25 years. In fact, there's been some work done on this before, and it's about the construction of 13 hospitals in this way. Some have completed the tender process, some have completed the contract process, but the Turkish Medical Corps has stopped conducting its application, and now a legal basis is being set up. When the law is studied, it is not possible for a person to believe in this method, which is demonstrated here as a citizen, as a citizen, as a health worker, when read; it is truly heartbreaking. This needs to be discussed by health professionals, because health care is a total service, a service that requires total quality. In fact, we all agree that the Health Commission is the primary part of this issue. But when the Prime Minister got up in the morning and talked about what a terrible thing the separation of forces was, and we heard that delusion there, I thought to myself, "Is this the anger of a statesman, or is it the delusions of a contractor who's had all his hopes tied to such an investment and had been stopped? I'm really surprised there.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0120par0448	Sensation suits you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0119par0449	Because instead of complaining about the separation of forces, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, which has many possibilities, our state is strong, this hospital will be invested in some way. You expect him to say something, but he reacted incredibly. We wanted the medics to discuss this law, the plan was sent to the Budget Commission, the Health Commission was a subcommittee. When we were waiting to get a call from the commission, we learned that the Health Commission said we can't work on it. We wondered, why are we doing this?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0121par0451	You've got a lot of work to do! Mr. Free, you've got a lot of work to do!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0119par0452	And when we went to the Plan Budget Commission, we said to our friends, how did we get an answer? The Health Commission, on that day, Mr. Vice President -- I remember his name in the hall today, Mr. Türkan Dağoğlu, who may answer here -- said, "We as the Health Commission, can take our proposal on the agenda because of the intensity of our work." We're very busy, so we won't give you an opinion, you see directly. I'm a member of that commission, my friends. You're going to say that the last meeting of that commission was probably a day ago, right? I guess we're up all night. We're probably so busy that it's impossible for us to discuss this, it's written, it's signed. The Health Commission held its meeting on June 21, 2012, just before its meeting a week ago to elect its new president. We're talking about a commission that hasn't been collected in seven months. We haven't had a meeting in seven months, Mr. Commission Vice President, because of our busy work, the Health Commission can't discuss this law.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0122par0453	It's a proof of a lie! It's a proof of a lie!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0119par0454	Let him testify here that we have a lot of work to do, and even though we haven't seen each other's faces in seven months, he's never bothered to send a signed letter to the Plan Budget Commission. There's a lot to tell about this system. I'm going to express those criticisms in the progressive clauses, but I must say clearly that the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines came to the Union; and when they expressed their views by the Subcommittee's hand -- I don't have a tongue, but it was him -- they did. They said, "Mind your own business, brother!," they said, "What is it about you to criticize this method?" But who are the medics who are going to be critical of this business, not the ones who are going to discuss it? And on that commission, we walked out of here like we were running from a fire, not listening to anyone. I wish the Health Labor Union had been invited to that commission, but they're already in jail for the KESK case. This is the treatment of the opposition. I'm going to go technical on the moving materials. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0123par0458	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th draft of the current bill. Article 2. And 3. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends (2) No price can be paid before the production is completed. However, under the regulations set by the administration for partial adoptions in the case of the completion of the phase and partial service, the terms of the contract are sealed. (3) It is included in the tender document and in the contract under the rules laid out in accordance with regulations and regulations on how to calculate and pay the services to the contractor in exchange for services provided by the contractor. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0124par0467	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0123par0468	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0125par0469	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0123par0470	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0126par0471	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0123par0472	Yusuf Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0127par0474	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you as you begin my words. Mr. Minister, there's a state hospital tender in Kayseri, and what's interesting is, of course, this hospital, which will be given to the state with high rent, will be operated by all the hotels and other pharmacies, and it's an hour away from the city, and there's no way to reach the city, there's no way to tell what kind of service will be done when it's in an emergency position, but most importantly, the other hospitals in the center will be assigned to this contractor. Dear lawmakers, I actually asked Mr. Secretary a question yesterday, and I asked him the price of the tender, and I asked him about the distance from the hospital to the city. They didn't answer that, but I'm telling you right now, a hospital is being built an hour from the city, and there's no telling how people are going to get to the hospital. So we have to consider these. On the other hand, there is a serious health problem in the districts of Kayseri. Like Felahiye, there are absolutely no hospitals in our counties like Saraz, and the people they will serve are forced to move to Kayseri. Now, while we're at it, I'd like to make this very clear. Now, our doctors are important to all of us. God forbid anyone gets sick, but hospitals are important and our doctors are important. We may be able to live our lives without falling into another institution, but we certainly can't say that in terms of health. On the other hand, these people, we call doctors, are thirty years old, but they complete their residency and begin their duties, and of course they didn't come down from the sky. But they have some problems, and they need to be addressed. I'd like to share a few of these with you: the violence that happens to our doctors from time to time, which we saw on TV the other day. The words of the mother of a violent doctor's mother are very compelling: Did I have my son read so that someone would come and beat him? • A two-point draft draft of the Turkish Medical Corps for the prevention of violence has been on the table of our former Health Minister Recep Akdağ (Mr. Recep Akdağ) since April 2012, and Turkey has not been on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly. As the third article in the draft of the law, a law can be passed to prevent the freedom of education from being treated as a serious crime as well as to prevent the freedom of health care for health workers. Again, there are some very important problems with the Full - Day Law. Forced service may be removed and made more attractive. For example, a mandatory service can be considered as a separate parameter while transitioning to academic staff after residency and residency. There are problems with teaching members in medical schools. Because they can't afford and appreciate the work they do, they can't go to private hospitals and, therefore, can't contribute enough to education. It means that the quality of education in medical schools is falling, and in the future, ten to fifteen years from now, Turkey will certainly see the damage. While there is still time, it is important to find a solution -- no matter what the cost -- to this problem. The Association of Public Hospitals; the fact that the senior executives assigned to this place are made up of academics who have been active doctors and who have previously been the administrators will also facilitate some problems. Again, I also want to know the reasons and benefits of health policies for transitioning to the three-headed administration, including the health department in the provinces, the public health department and the general secretary of public hospitals. There are still problems with performance payments. If I have to, I can explain it to the Minister in a broader way. I would like to end my words with a verse of Sultan Süleyman the Law: There's no viable object in the public, like the state, It's like a breath of health in a government jihad. It's what they call a jihad. It's like a revelation in the world of happiness. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0128par0491	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th draft of the current bill, 417 rows. We offer and propose that the 20 per cent rate in the article be changed to 35 per cent. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Mehmet Sugar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0129par0504	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0128par0505	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0130par0506	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0128par0507	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0131par0508	Emre Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0128par0509	Emre Bridgelu, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0132par0511	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the motion. I salute you all. Now, of course, on my left-hand side, Mr. Forest and Water Affairs Minister is here, on my right-hand side, in line for the Commission, Edirne MP, the new minister of health is here, Mr. Health Minister. I, in particular, would like to share with you something about Ergene (Trakya), which is on the news sites today. Now, you know, the government, especially when the Prime Minister flew over Thrace, saw the pollution of Ergene. And he was very disturbed by it. He gave the instruction to clear Ergene. Why do I say that? Mr. Minister, you know, you're making a statement, you're calling it Islah OSB.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0133par0515	What minister?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0132par0516	Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. Today, I would especially like to share with you the following news that Istanbul's two and Dudullu organised industries have fallen to websites, news sites, scheduled to be removed and sent to Thrace, Ergene, Ergene, and Ergene. There are talks about meetings being held about this, that the governorship is making attempts on this matter. What's it called? 800,000 people, Mr. Minister, are concerned about you -- they say Thrace will be emigrated from Istanbul. What do they say about that? It is said that these factories will be deployed in Thracene, Ergene, and about 1 million people will be moved from Istanbul to Thrace. And then it turns out, it says, "Istanbul, in the middle and long term, will be the city of commerce, culture and tourism." Well, I understand that, you're going to make Istanbul this way, and that's why it needs to be cleaned up. So, you're going to make Thrace a dump? Is that your target? Now on my right is a Minister of Thrace, and on my left is the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs in charge of the project. Now I want answers from both of them. Is your plan to clean up Ergene, or to bring Istanbul's trash and put it in Thracea? There were other projects about that. You know, you're trying to bring Turkey's biggest dump in Tekirdağ Province, the solid waste disposal plant. Local authorities have decided not to do so, but you're still trying to get it into the belly of Thrace. That's when he showed up today. What's come up? I'm cleaning up the government, Ergene, Thrace. Today it's revealed what a great lie it is. I'll tell you this: As a project to clean up Ergene, you can tell that the waters of Ergene have been trapped in the pipes, and we've been spraying it into the sea, and we've been cleaning Ergene, and the waters are not dirty. There may be a few people you've fooled, but no one will believe it if you try to tell them about Dudullu district, the Twotelli region, the entire industry of Istanbul, and put it in Thrace, and we're still cleaning up Ergene, Thrace. I, in particular, the Edirne MP, the Minister of Health himself is from Thrace, and I call him on duty. If the government has such a plan, it would be treason for the Minister to sign under this plan. It is clear that the government has done nothing against the will to cleanse the adolescent. Now I say to you: You may divide Thrace, and you may try to sell Thrace to others, but you have not inherited Thrace from your father, nor from your grandfather. This land is Turkey's most fertile farmland, and this land is in need of protection. Therefore, I say the government must immediately give up this project and step back from these initiatives immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0134par0525	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0135par0526	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0134par0527	No, there's no teasing. If he's going to make a statement, Mr. Health Minister will make a statement, otherwise you have no say in the matter, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0136par0531	Mr. Emre, first of all, of course, I want to thank you for your Thrace sensitivity, but I wish you'd show this sensitivity to our CHP municipalities -- this structure that has contaminated Ergene for nearly 20 years. (EA/DG) Currently, our CHP municipalities are responsible for 60 per cent of the pollution of Ergene.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0137par0532	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0136par0533	Yeah, well... Now, in the future, if there's an accusation that's not on the agenda and is not on the agenda at all, then our citizen, our Thracian citizen, sees how Ergene is being cleaned up. The dynamics in that sense... we've had two meetings with our Minister in the last year, all the MPs were invited, you weren't in one, we didn't have CHP mayors. If you're in the showmaking part and you're not in the actual act, I'll tell the people of Tekirdağ, Cırklareli, and Thrace, and I'll tell them, and you can keep telling them, but - don't worry -- this process, the cleaning of Ergene will be given to this party again. From now on, you and your people -- we're doing protocols with your cities -- and you won't be able to get it dirty.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0138par0536	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0139par0537	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0138par0538	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0139par0539	Now, Mr. Secretary, in particular, he has publicly harassed both ourselves and the Republican People's Party municipalities. He made a statement at the point of the pollution of the teenager, and I have to answer that.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0138par0540	Mr. Bridgel, you've already spoken in a way that is not relevant to the law. I promise you two minutes, but there's no bullying here, and I want to make that clear. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0140par0545	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0141par0546	Minister, have you invited CHP municipalities?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0142par0547	Absolutely, I invited him one at a time.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0141par0548	You didn't do any of it, you didn't do any of it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0143par0549	Now, I remind the Minister of his responsibility. Mr. Minister has not said a word about his responsibility or my claim here, especially about the immigration of nearly a million people to Thrace, the transfer of Istanbul's dirty industry to Thrace, and the transfer of its dirty industry to Thracia, he quoted the usual phrases and said the People's Party municipalities. I'll tell you this: you're a deputy and a minister from that area. Now, when you count the cities and district municipalities, how many AKP-li municipalities will there be, how many CHP municipalities will there be? But you'll be embarrassed. Explain the outcome. The AKP has more municipalities than the CHP municipality. I'll tell you the rest, it's not true that the Republican People's Party municipalities -- or I'll defend your municipalities, because you're making accusations of your own municipalities -- have contaminated them, and that's not true that they're causing this pollution. It's unreal. They are the first in charge of the pollution of the young man; let's make it clear: unsupervised industries. In your plans, it also states that this is the way it is, that this industry needs to be controlled. I think it's unfair for the municipalities to blame municipalities... for the audits of the environmental administrations of your responsibility... for the city's responsibility, for the pollution created by industrial organizations that are not in the control area... and for the very low share of the municipalities here... to tell them as a huge responsibility. If you look at the problem like that, if you look at people who live on the edge of Ergene, if you look at it as participatory, this partying, if you make a human distinction, if you look at it with the father's political preferences, I'm saying, "You can't solve it."
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0144par0554	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, first, what do you want to say?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0145par0556	Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0144par0557	Because of the bullying... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0145par0560	Once in this sense, of course, it's not going to do much good to continue this process here, but once the municipalities of Suloglu and Lalapaşa have built boroughs, small counties and treatment facilities with their own means. But Keşan Municipality is from CHP, we signed a contract, we took it up as Ministry. Longöğurü Municipality is CHP. The contract has been made. Our Ministry has taken over their treatment. Therefore, we don't have any Republicans or party members there, but the sensitivity of this means, please, not by blaming one side... right now, you can't find a criminal by running away from the pollution of Ergene. That's what I want to say.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0146par0562	But Mr. Secretary, you blamed it, you're the reason for the CHP municipalities!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0145par0563	But the result is... If he accuses us of polluting Ergene, if we've been running a dynamic program like this for two years, if our deputy and our mayors don't agree... look, our Edirne MP Kemal Değirmedereli has arrived, joined, demonstrated his sensitivity. Let me put that in perspective. But Edirne didn't come, Tekirdağ didn't come. The two-year term for the city of Edirne has ended once, two years of national real estate, and the second term is almost over. Now, the environmental sensitivity here, my friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, the photo in your samples is bad.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0147par0567	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Point taken. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 7th article that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the 417 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Mehmet Sugar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0148par0586	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0147par0587	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0149par0588	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0147par0589	Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0150par0591	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I condemn the second operation against KESK, which was founded 18 years ago and under any circumstances defended the rights of public workers. As it is known, in the past months, nearly eight months ago, the senior executives of KESK have been under operation and are still in Sincan Prison without indictment. I condemn it. Dear lawmakers, this understanding in Turkey is the understanding that makes Turkey the world's top terrorist organization member. Our mothers don't give birth to more terrorists than any other world country. The mentality that makes our people terrorists is the AKP mentality. Once again, I condemn this mentality in your presence. Dear friends, valued lawmakers, as you all know, Malatya is not just a famous city, but also with the politicians he raised in Malatya, who make Malatya a brand in both Turkey and the world, which is the University of Malatya, the Turgut Özal Medical Center of the world, the first of Turkey. I know it's my duty to thank Malatia Hilmioğlu the Conqueror, who is in hospital today at the point of having a liver transplant, who has contributed a great deal to Malatian liver transplantation. Of course, in the growth of this center, in the development of this center, I also congratulate Professor Sezai Yilmaz and his friends at the head of that liver transplant center. Dear friends, there are two state hospitals in Malatya. These are handed over to the TOKI, replacing it with a new state hospital. Sadly, the mentality that sees much of the way to Malatya is double staked, not double road. One of the hospitals that was merged, thought to be destroyed, is across from the new hospital. The new hospital is located at the west entrance of Malatya. The second hospital to be destroyed is at the east entrance of Malatya. Mr. Secretary, now, I'd like to ask you a favor. That's what the Malatians want in common. In Malatya, one of every political parties -- the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, the unionist -- is the common wish for all in Malatya: Malatya does not want to see the Malatya State Hospital destroyed at the east entrance of Malatya. They think it's important for Malatya to serve here, for Malatya to grow, for Malatya to grow, and for health to grow. I ask you, as a Malatian, to reconsider this decision. Of course, if this place collapses, it's likely the TOKI will build a mall or a building here, and I'm asking you not to allow it, and I'm asking you to reconsider this decision. Dear friends, of course, with the liver transplant center, the Turtle Özal Medical Center and Malatya are an important health centre, but there are many problems in our counties. I just want to say this in one sentence, and I want to give you an example. We have a general surgeon at the Arabgir State Hospital, but unfortunately, there's no anesthesiologist, so I'll leave it to you to appreciate what a general surgeon means. Now, of course, with this law, health will be privatized. In fact, this is one of AKP's crazy projects, so maybe the craziest project since that channel project is this project. When there's nothing left to sell, now, with a privatisation logic, it's required to pass this law with a logic that sees the patient, sees the doctor, sees the client, but it's not the right law. Companies taking city hospital tenders are promised a fill-up rate -- as if they're running a highway -- according to this law -- and, valued lawmakers, this is a project to make someone rich, raise someone. He says that health should not be privatized, and I ask you to reconsider our thoughts about Malatya, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0151par0601	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three proposals on Article 8 of the same nature, which I will read, and I will conduct together, and I will make separate promises to those who have motions, or I will have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Bill 417 be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Mehmet Şeker Ali Riza Özturk Names of other proposal holders of the same nature: Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı The Lightning Ali Self Reşat Right The signatures of the third motion of the same nature: Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0152par0629	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0151par0630	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0153par0631	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0151par0632	Yes, it's Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants a word on the motion -- we'll start with the Peace and Democracy Party first -- because we did it in order.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0154par0634	Mr. President, I have made a commitment by the Ministry of Health to the amendment to Article 8 of the Law on Building, Renovating, and Service. I salute the General Assembly. And I wish the Minister the best of his new duties. Dear lawmakers have been transformed into a meta that, in the world where liberal policies are dominated by a particular one-polar form, health has been virtually devoid of rights, which can be bought as much as money can afford. With this bill, we understand that today in Turkey, the healthcare area is being abandoned to the sovereignty of the free market. However, the basic human rights of health care and the unique qualities of health care clearly reveal the error of leaving health care to the sovereignty of the free market. The relevant clause of the bill states that the contract in the implementation of the public-private partnership will be subject to special legal provisions. In addition, the properties of the facility will be set by the administration, depending on the feasibility reports, and the deadline will not exceed the period of fixed investment specified in the contract, except for the period of thirty years. In this context, the Plan and Budget Commission, where the bill was referred, was to discuss the cost of public health facilities, which, of course, were envisioned to be made, renovated, and serviceed by this law. The state should know how much to pay for private companies that will operate health complexes that will be rented, but it has been overlooked by the public. According to the calculations, the state will be burdened with serious debt. Although concerned NGOs and occupational rooms have insisted on the burden of debt, as well as the unsecured situation in which health workers will be involved, it is also thought that the Commission should block these proposals. We are facing a ruling party that ignores the views and proposals of the opposition and relevant NGOs. The government, in particular, needs to know that public services, such as education and health, are important issues to keep above political differences. We're also looking out for public interest while we're compiling our proposals. However, every law that comes to the General Assembly, especially with all the warnings of NGOs and vocational rooms, continues to be out in a hurry, and it needs to draft new legislation even less than a year after it has been removed. Because the laws that are prepared are in conflict with the facts of society, and the shirt that is tried to be clothed in society is narrow. In this context, the bill has been ignored by the debt of citizens, prepared without analysis of the cost. As part of the public-private partnership model of a very important public service area such as health care, it clearly and clearly violates the Constitution's social state principle. It is also another fact that the public transfer of obligations to the social state from public to private should be stressed that the Constitution will again go to the violation of Article 56 ▪ on health care. Mr. President, the bill of the law, which does not protect the public interest of the corporations and is designed with an understanding of the interests of the public, seriously endangers public health as a whole. Most importantly, the responsibility of protecting the health of the people expected from a social state is transferred to private companies with this clause. We all know how much private companies care for public health. The health period of your money may increase the appetite of private companies, but above all, it conflicts with the principle of a social state, which burdens the poor. What needs to be done is the immediate abandonment of market-oriented politics in the field of health care, instead bringing in health policies that protect public interest. I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0155par0642	Thank you. There's another sayer on the motion... Mr. Shandir, who wants to talk about the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0156par0645	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0155par0646	Lütfü Türkkan, Aldeli MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0157par0648	Mr. President, it's a very fancy bill, as you can see from your name. Before we talk about this, I'd like to tell you about Kenan Erenoğlu, who was kidnapped by the PKK 19 months ago. I visited her parents this morning. Mustafa Bey and Nazmiye Hanım are in the mood of a mother and father whose children have been kidnapped by the PKK. Of course, they haven't heard anything, there's no information reaching them from any level of government, so there's no information sharing whether their son is alive or dead or not. I'd love for you to see the condition of that parent. It's a terrible thing. As a person who's lived the like of this in a different way in the past, I'm curious as to why the state is so indifferent to the condition of that family. First of all, I'm also amazed that the recently reactive doves of peace in Sinop and Samsun have been unable to respond to the events that have occurred in Sinop and Samsun, so it is not acceptable for our fellow MPs to be trapped in buildings and exposed to lynching, but it is not as human as it is to remain silent to a slide that the PKK has missed.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0158par0650	Let's go get him, Mr. Lütfü. Come on, let's bring it in together.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0157par0651	It's not human not to spend who has something to do with it, and I want to make it clear first.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0158par0652	Let's get a team together. Let's go. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0157par0653	Look, I'll tell you something: with the bed where Ocalan lies, with his TV being LCD, and even with the recent improvements -- I beg your pardon -- until you're interested in what size, go take care of the governor. You have been silent for a year and a half. The shame is enough for you. Come on, I'll get back to the bill and tell you some things about the bill. The name of this bill is so cool, I told you, it's the Bill of Law on Building, Renovating, and Service with the Public Special Co-operation Model. The bill envisions the purchase of all services provided by physicians and health workers from companies receiving the tender. So it's got doctors, dentists, pharmacists, vets, physicians, civil servants, health physicists, administrators, midwifes, nurses... all of them. The bill envisions guarantees of Treasury for international loans taken by companies, and foreign debt recorded without publication of the agreements in the Official Gazette. The open reduction method, which is completely against Turkish tender legislation, is being made into a law. Again, the bill does not include a series of small details about who will approve the tenders, who will have the charge of spending, whether the chairman of the tender and the spending authority will be the same person. When your patients go to the hospital, you know, open up your back, cough, and let's hear your lungs. Now, in the meantime, as soon as he walked into the hospital, the customers came through the door -- because patients are customers now -- open your pocket, and let your money be coughed up. That's what it became. I'm gonna get back to the subject from earlier. I will speak again about this law in the following article: Look, my friends, everyone now knows that this government is negotiating with the PKK. The day before yesterday, the trial was held; 10 of the top executives of the ACK have been released. This is a manifestation of your negotiation with the PKK. There is a Firat Anlı among them, one of the top executives of the ACK. Why didn't you put Kenan Erenoğlu in this negotiation when you negotiated such a bargain? You are openly negotiating with the PKK. So, all right, we'll leave Firat Anlı, and we'll leave this; whoever you want, we'll send him to Imralı; how does he want the bed size, how does he want the sponge? There's soldiers, there's cops, there's teachers. Five of the government's officials were taken prisoner by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). So, in other words, the PKK has twisted your wrist, and you're helpless in the face of terrorism. That is the reason for your agreement, not because you want peace, but because you have lost to the PKK. I'll talk to the other stuff again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0159par0660	Thank you. On the motion...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0662	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0159par0663	Yes, Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0664	Mr. President, Mr. Orator has made it clear that Firat Anlı is especially the senior head of the ACK.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0161par0665	But there's a KCK in the House?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0666	Firat Anlı is a friend of ours who is the mayor of our party, who is political.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0162par0667	If there's a KCK guy, let him promise not to pick on you. That's not true. Are any of us KCK people here?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0668	Yeah, I'm talking about teasing, picking on our party.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0163par0669	Here, I promise you two minutes for teasing. But let's not have any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0672	Thank you, Mr. President. We've been talking over and over about these KCK operations here, but I think we're going to have to insist that we don't. All of our friends are currently in prisons for their political work under the freedom of thought, expression and organisation, and that is a disgrace to the country's history in terms of the country's law. We believe that this House should carry out the immediate removal of this disgrace with great responsibility, that it should make these legal arrangements. Six of the 10 of our friends mentioned are our friends, the mayor. It's our friends the public has appointed as mayors to represent their will by the votes of thousands, tens of thousands of people. Firat Anlı was the mayor of Yenişehir in the previous period, running for mayor in Bingol, a role model by all political parties, known for his personality, political personality, until now. It's never right for you to bring our friend here like this and make an argument. All of our friends, especially all of our friends from these last 10 evacs, are already friends of ours who have been working with us in political studies. On the other hand, when it comes to the queen-in-law thing...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0164par0676	The other one's a government official, sir. When you're negotiating with them, the man you call Kenan Erenoğlu, my brother-in-law.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0677	We want the police released, both the governor and the soldiers in the PKK's hands. However, you know better what it took for him to go and run this process, to bring in those soldiers, with the responsibility of the party that we were successors to in the previous process. The party has been shut down, the parliamentary immunity has been lifted.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0164par0678	My request is from power, not you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0679	Why were the soldiers brought in? We were accused by the government. Why did the soldiers not die? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...founded. So, if you have any intimacy about this, let's get every four political parties to form a delegation and let's get to work on it as soon as possible.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0165par0682	The government will do it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0160par0683	As the Peace and Democracy Party, we are prepared to be the most active component of this work. Our previous practice on this subject is the assurance of our initiative.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0166par0685	Thank you. [[Continue]] Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0167par0693	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 8 of the Law Bill 417. I salute you all. We ask that the 8th article be removed from the draft text of the 8th article. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, by the way, I congratulate the Minister on his new assignment. I hope, and I hope, Mr. Secretary, that he doesn't make mistakes made by the Minister before him, that he's a little more concerned with health than he is with his understanding that health rights are the most basic right. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, the healthcare workers' job guarantees are actually being eliminated. His doctor, his nurse, his client, his technical staff... his healthcare providers' job security is being eliminated, his doctors' professional independence is being eliminated. Life rights are the most basic right, as we all know, and health is the basis of life rights. The state has to carry out full and quality health care, and it is in charge of providing people with a healthy right to live, which is their basic right to live. In the course of our lives today, let alone the full and quality of health care has become unsatisfactory. The quality of health care has been reduced, the export rate has increased. Doctors' healthy work is constantly blocked by local and general political and political interference. Dear lawmakers, defending the doctor is defending the health, defending the human rights, defending the human rights of life. As we look at it today, I also know from my constituency that the medical equipment and equipment in hospitals in the fields of Virtue, Silifke, Anamur, Gülnar, Mut, Aydıncık and Bozyız are missing, and because of the lack of doctors and staff, a full and quality, a healthy service has been rendered unsustainable. In Silifke, for example, there has been a demand for a state hospital in the region since 2007; it has not been activated, it has not been opened. Silifke is a resort. In the summer, older people from Ankara and pensioners usually come there for vacations, which raises health problems. In our area, the Mut, the Silifke, the Virtue, the Gülnar, the Anamur, some of the majors are either missing or are not. For example, in Silifke, there is no breast surgery, no intania; cardiologists, internalities, neurology, urology, orthopedics, and breast disease doctors are also missing. The most important flaw is that in Silifke, a local hospital, the intensive care unit is at the lowest level, inadequate, very inadequate in bed. There are no MRIs, there are no MRI units, although they've been transferred from local counties, and patients go to private hospitals. The C.T. device is often malfunctioning, and it can be repaired by months, Mr. Secretary. He doesn't have an endoscopy device. Gulnar is like that once. There is no obstetrician, no pediatrician, a doctor who's an internalist, who's been made, who's been virtually unable to function, and those patients are not getting service. In addition, the existing hospital is inadequate. The construction of the new hospital will be 74 beds, which will be inadequate in later years. It is the people of Mut's request that the hospital be made at least 150 beds at once. Anamur is no different. Anamur has a shortage of doctors again. He's been a neurosurgeon for six months, an orthopedic specialist, a temp, no breast surgeon, no vascular surgeon, no cardiothoracics, two out of three obstetricians, but one of them can't work because of pregnancy, and one doctor can't provide enough service. There's a pediatrician, he's incompetent. The radiologist and physical therapist asked for his transfer because his mandatory service was over. Mr. Secretary, these counties aren't in the east or anywhere else, they're not on top of the mountain. This is the area of tourism between the Mediterranean and Mersin-Antalia. Despite various questions, I've been an MP for two semesters, and we still haven't been able to get these services to be complete and quality at Silifke State Hospital. The motions we're making are answered by the Ministry of Health every six months, and we still have what we said six months ago. That's why I hope you'll take your time in your new ministry, and we'll wait and see. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit02spe0168par0706	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who refuse... the motions of the same nature have not been accepted. But the interesting thing is, the counselors don't raise their hands, and those who oppose the motion don't raise their hands. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0168par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 417. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 9th article of the same nature, which I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Bill 417 be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Mehmet Şeker Ali Riza Özturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the nineth article of the current Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı You've brought Simsek Ali Öz Lütfu Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Bill 417 be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0169par0028	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0168par0029	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0170par0030	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0171par0031	Iron Steel...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0168par0032	It's Iron Steel, Mud MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0172par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of myself and my party. I have made a pledge on the 9th Amendment of Law 417 rows. First of all, an offer of law to serve public partnership, despite the importance of health, should have been far away from this speed and debate at this later hour of the day. We all need health. Because it was the most fundamental human right to be human, it had to serve as a free, accessible, qualified human being, and also as a spiritual, political, and social well-being. Although being a social state is also one of the key criteria for being strong, economic and political, it is intended to be: instead of meeting the duties and responsibilities of the social state, this bill has been drafted with a sense and understanding that serves to market, subcontractorise, and metamorisation of today's neoliberal policies. In this sense, it is possible to read, as well as in the basis of the text in the law proposal, that the oppressed, the worker, is not in the interest of the poor. As the 9th article will be met with this understanding, this is a bill that will allow the public partnership facilities to be served, the health facility to be built, the capital is available to the rich who owns some of the assets, some of the resources and resources. First of all, the VAT, the fact that such an opportunity is offered to the rich man who has the opportunity and means to be exempted from the stamp tax, the allowance, would undermine the sense of justice in society, and it would insult the majority of society, which are victims and poor. You'll receive taxes from the employee, laborer and the poor, you'll be in the account of taxing even part of his minimum wage, but you'll be able to give them tax exemption, stamp and tuition exemptions in some way, at the price of hiring for forty-nine years, at the cost of which the social state should be able to do the job. This is not acceptable; this is also contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution, and it is far from the feeling of meeting the basic needs of society. In this sense, the draft law, above all, had to be put into action by the will of the Assembly, in which both individuals and communities were required to be able to respond to their basic needs. And since it is far from these features, we say that it would be more meaningful, realistic, that both the law proposal itself and the 9th article in this bill be taken off the agenda, rather than taxed by rich people with goods, capital savings, and tuitions and stamp taxes. In other words, the fact that a member of parliament, who has just been mayor to us in the past, has taken an unfair approach to Mr. Firat Anlı, is contrary to the liberal spirit, contrary to the characteristics of the Parliament as a will of the people. It is not for us to express that these people who have yet been charged with police indictments have been discredited, punished by the community, that they are the representatives of the nation, that they are the representatives of the nation. No one is in the position of senior executive of the ACK. No one is in the position of executive or member of the ACK. This is the result of the self-rejection and denial of the state, which has disgraced and criminalized us, who run democratic politics through the Peace and Democracy Party. In that sense, I salute all my friends' commitment to the point of being the defender of democratic politics once again, wishing them all well, and I respectfully salute you all for the freedom of tens of thousands of political prisoners who have been tried in the TK cases, especially the main case.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0173par0039	Thank you. Mr. Shandir, who will speak?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0174par0041	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan will speak, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0173par0042	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0175par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I've just stated, I'd like to give you some information in a language that our nation will understand as to why this very good law has been passed. First, they will call international companies to Turkey to build a hospital after the bill has been passed. They're gonna give them free land from a nice place like this. They rule that the work to be done is not subject to the State Contraction Act or the Public Contraction Law. Then they'll bid on it. They'll make the tender in accordance with the open bids, the invitations, or the bargains, whichever works for them. They'll also sign a contract with the company they're tendering under special legal provisions. They'll pay at the right time so the poor company doesn't go down before the hospital's over. After the hospital is finished, they're committed to paying the rent for no more than forty-nine years. Although, the hospital's money will come out in three or five years, but they thought the poor company would make a little more profit for another forty-fifty years. When the deadline expires, the company must hand over the hospital in good condition and without debt. But if the hospital goes down, they also know that they have to implement the method of publicisation in the bankrupt banks. They say the contractor can hand over hospital construction to other companies under the same conditions. So, in health care, there'll be grounds for the creation of bag companies. Our friends thought ahead, and they prepared a copy of the contract in English. If there's a problem with foreign companies, there's also a number of legal ways for international investigations. You know, those poor companies, if they get credit for foreign currency, God forbid, if there's a crisis, they don't prevent the firm from setting up the rules to keep the firm from going down. In fact, they vouch for him as a government so he can get loans from the company's financial institutions. Despite all of this, the bag man continues to make out with his international financial provider if the company fails. These poor companies will allow all services, such as health care, the O.R., intensive care, the lab, physical therapy, to be taken from them in case they don't get enough money for rent alone. You know, the municipalities make it hard for the hospitals to build -- every city, not the Justice and Development Party -- to hand over the development plans to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism so there's no problem. They also exempt any stamp tax, tuition, and VAT, so that the poor company doesn't become victims. Gentlemen, these laws are against the Law of Contraction. The AKP government, which has made its own law, against its own regulations, has already said that these tenders are against the law. Now, instead of saying, "Where have I made a mistake?" he changed the name of that code and made it a law to correct it for the benefit of the people. We wonder why the Justice and Development Party government wants to implement the public-special partnership model. With all these private hospitals, why is he trying to privatize public hospitals? Can't the Justice and Development Party, who boast at every turn, build with the hands of the TOKI? In Erzurum, the public hospital is much cheaper, but why do the same methods not apply everywhere? What happens if the company that gets the contract goes down after all? Why pay about 50 billion lira rent when you can spend about 5 billion Turkish liras on these hospitals? Some ministers claim that even our grandchildren can't repay the debt. Why do you insist on going on? We still don't know why it's being insisted on when there's an example of England trying the public-private partnership system, and 20 years later, regretting it, setting up a research commission for destroying the public. In the British treasure report, which is beyond even the imagination of the liberals, the unacceptable face of capitalism appeared with these contracts. Who has imposed this system on you? How is this method different from capitalization? Is health a strategic issue? If so, how do you propose to strangers? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0176par0057	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who now wants to speak on his motions.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0177par0060	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 9th Amendment. I salute you all. We ask that the clause be removed from the draft text with our motion. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now quote from the letter sent to me by a young medical assistant, the doctor. A young assistant friend of ours, our physicians are workers who deal with human health above all else, who spend their night and day making it possible for people to survive. However, they can't be compensated for their efforts. Today, a doctor's salary is around $1,850, and although there are additional fees from the watch and return capital, they are in the company's monopoly; sometimes cutbacks, sometimes delays, sometimes they are not at all given by arbitrary practices. None of the additional fees our doctors receive are reflected in retirement. Again, education professors go to private hospitals and demoralize because of financial hardship, and they have no professors to specialize in university hospitals. He says, "Mr. Deputy, our doctors are subject to inhuman hours. It continues to work especially after the shift. For example, a doctor who starts working late at eight o'clock in the morning is at 17. He's off duty at 00. It's 5:00. The clock closes at 100, but he takes over at the same time. Eight o'clock the next morning. It goes all the way to 00. Is our doctor going home at the end of the shift? No. Same time after shift, 08 a.m. He starts his regular shift at 00, and he's 17 p.m. He's still working until 00, so our doctors have to work exactly 36 or 40 hours without sleep. Patients can also be harmed depending on the situation. Our doctors are on watch 150 hours a month, but there's no charge for over 130 hours of seizures, and 130 hours is paid. The fee per hour is $6. Our doctors don't get their GEDs. When they're experts in any major, even if they're side branch experts, they don't get their GEDs. However, after completing their mandatory services in any major, they are able to receive their GEDs backwards. This practice violates human rights and is never acceptable. If they have mandatory services, they should at least be manipulated. For example, a doctor who specializes in internal medicine, who has completed his vocational training, should be given a degree in GP, or an extension degree, but should be prevented from working in that capacity if he does not perform the mandatory service of an upper secondary education. For example, if a general surgeon is forced to resign under the negative circumstances of mandatory service, he should not be sentenced to stay at home, at least as a practitioner, to work in private clinics. Our doctors' mandatory services must be removed. Our young assistant says so. Even if it is necessary to serve, our doctors should not be allowed to work as if they had shackles on their hands. For example, our doctors can resign three times during their service. Our doctors may resign, especially because they are working under very negative circumstances at their mandatory service stations; they may want to return to their duties, if necessary. For our doctors, there should be no such thing as the number of rights to resign. Our young assistant continues: the mandatory conditions of our doctors' services are very bad. Because of terror and violence, our doctors have no life security. There aren't enough facilities. The wages of our doctors who work in obligatory service areas are not attractive. In these areas, social facilities should be built for our doctors and their salaries should be made available. The biggest problem now is the public hospital union bill. With this bill, the doctor will no longer be assigned to the institution. Which means the government can pick up any doctor and drive wherever they want. That way, there'll be a staff. Our doctors need to be protected from violence, deterrent measures. The guy comes in, beats the crap out of the doctor, stays in custody one day, gets released the next, which is not a deterrent. There's a complaint line called SABIM. He asked the doctors to write a written plea. This results in the consideration of any defenceless complaint. I've got to get up. Anyone who's already in the way, bored, who doesn't know, who doesn't understand, complains to the doctor, but has no basis for the doctor's asylum. As you know, an assistant committed suicide in Istanbul. The law must protect the doctor. There's something called "complication." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The dictionary means that another disease or disorder is determined during the course or treatment of one disease, adding other diseases or disorders to the current disease. These complications can always be seen. He says, continues our young assistant, Madam Secretary. You probably know that as well as we do. I'm waiting for you to sort these things out, hopefully, in the new era. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0178par0074	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. On the 10th article, there are two of them, and there is also one motion. First, I'm going to read a motion that's not the same: It's the 10th of the current bill. We offer and propose the addition of the public tender of the tenderment institution to come after the declaration of the Ministry of Development. Mehmet Günal Cemalettin Lightning Reşat Right Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th draft of the current 417 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Muharrem Light Aylin Nazlıaka I'm having them read the signatures of the other motion: Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0179par0102	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0180par0103	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0178par0104	Muharrem Illum, Erzincan MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0181par0106	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss the amendment motion on the 10th Amendment. I salute you all. Of course, Mr. Secretary, in this article, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to make more, you know, regulations. After the law has been passed, the powers that you have to give to your followers and determine how to operate it, including all the institutions in the private - public partnership hospitals, including pharmacies... [[There is no pharmacy from the AK PARTY.]] You'll put it in the pharmacy, don't worry, you'll put it in. All the institutions are going to do there, and that's going to be private, because the main purpose of this law is to finally fully privatize health. Of course, in the 70 percent, at 75 percent of the health you received, Mr. Minister, what the citizens haven't understood in ten years is that you will eventually bring in a market-hating law and bring it to full privatisation of health. Of course, with the transformation of health in ten years, you've made an unqualified and inferior health policy. And you brought this by using the doctors. So, when the doctors were getting beaten up there, the nurses and the paramedics were being attacked, not one person came in here before they died, and they didn't even get a research proposal. Later, a friend's suicide was caused by the SABIM. Minister, right now, of course, I've told you before on the Commission, 650,000 health workers are really enjoying themselves. Why is he celebrating? For ten years, because a government that persecuted the medics went away, and you came along, and we welcomed it. Minister, you may be a Refik Sayadam, where you can really go down in history. And if you want to do that, you're going to have to withdraw this law first, because eventually, it's going to be privatisation. Of course, when the privatisation takes place, the health workers will be enslaved, so you don't need to know much to miss it. Now, I'm going to give you an example of Erzurum, Erzincan. In Erzurum, today, almost every county has one hospital, not a few. Everywhere you go downtown, you run into a hospital. My deputy just told me that you've built a 1,200-bed hospital, the price is set, how much it costs, and what you're going to bid on now, the prices you're going to make in hospitals. I saw you on TV today, Mr. Secretary, and you're saying we don't understand it there, but I mean, it's like two times two is four. We just can't figure out how this job is cheaper with rent when you're taking it out. When I just said pharmacy, my congressman said there was no pharmacy. There's a pharmacy. You had dreams of opening grocery stores, that's what's gonna happen. In this law, you'll set it by regulations. I said Erzincan. What about the hospitals in Erzincan? S.S.K. Hospital is closed, and now it's the Community Hospital Association. The state hospital is currently... the President of the Public Hospital Association is trying to do something there, he's trying to revive it, but he can't because it's not enough. The remaining areas are a beautiful area, an area at the center; it is determined to be given to the TOKI, and will be given to the TOKI. At the hospital's location, where we call it an old emergency, there's no need to do anything about it, but there's an additional building that's being built up here called the research hospital, and it's trying to increase the number, but it's unclear when it's going to happen. I was at Erzincan again last week. Mr. Secretary, the fill rate is 114%, and this is 114% the success of my colleagues, certainly not the success of investments there. They tuck in beds next to beds, they open a new bed next to intensive care, they use them to change devices, they're in trouble, and we still call it success in my return to health. Of course, we already know your promise in 2003, Mr. Secretary. You didn't give it to me, but the givers did. So that's where the health is going at the end, and that's where the SEC hospitals are going to be closed, followed by family medicine, the establishment of the Public Hospitals Association and the latest point of privatisation with public-special partnership. Everyone knows it, you know it, but you can't say it. Minister, I repeat, you probably didn't hear what I just said because you were talking. You can be a Refik Saydam, you can go to medical history, and these health workers really respect you, but right now, the health workers don't see it very well, because you're going to pay for it with spinning capital, and the health workers will be fine, and they won't be able to go to private hospitals. They can't go to private hospitals, but they'll be sentenced to work for whatever you give them, including other health workers. Minister, one last favor for Erzincan. The World Eye Hospital is trying to build a hospital in Erzincan. Mr. Secretary Recep did everything in his power to prevent it when he left. We're asking you to help us build the World Eye Hospital. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0182par0120	Thank you. It's Fair Wolf, Hakkari MP who wants a word on the motions.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0183par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Actually, Mr. Secretary, just as we were talking about this, he came halfway, took over the Ministry and took over the problem halfway. It's kind of like, where did I end up, you know, in his own way. Because the Plan and Budget Commission could only talk about this bill and bring it to the agenda of the House in about a month, because it's an important bill. In a moment, I'm going to make general assessments on other substances or on the second chapter, but before that, there is another important matter I'm going to try to bring to the attention of the Minister. On February 5, 2013, the couple of Ayşe-Metin Erdin were thrilled to have a baby in Hakkari. On February 6, around 4:00 a.m., Ayşe Erdin was taken to the hospital due to labor pains, and the baby's head was beheaded in the hospital, and the baby's head was beheaded. So far, we know that an inspector has been sent from the Ministry of Health to investigate this incident. Yet, there has not been yet an explanation to answer the infinitive of this event in Haqkari. In Hakkari, the secretary general of public hospitals, whose homes were joyful, instead of resolving the problem, he went on his way out of the job by blaming the blame on others. In this regard, if you are being born today in a public hospital, in a maternity ward, with a baby's head ripped off and you have not made a satisfactory, convincing statement, that is the shame of the Ministry, the lack of the Ministry. The people of Haqkari expect a satisfactory explanation of this matter. We don't want the doctor or anyone else to be punished in advance, but the fact that there's been a mistake here, the Ministry should have made a statement about it, he didn't. Like this incident, basically, this project fell into your hands as a child with its head ripped off. You don't know where to hold it, and you don't know where to defend it, and you don't really know how to defend it, and you don't know how to do it, and you're in trouble.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0184par0127	Mr. Wolf, it's not a matter of defense. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0183par0129	You're saying it's worse, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President is always based on this kind of intervention. Mr. President, there's no need, Mr. Secretary, he's here to respond to our statements, our conversations, of course he has to defend and defend this matter. He'd have to convince us. Now, we've been discussing this for a month and a half, and we're not convinced. The ministry says there is no need for bed capacity. The ministry itself says there is no need for Turkey's extra bed capacity except 27,000 beds. Our equipment is sufficient, our equipment is sufficient. If everything is enough, if the system is functioning, why is this system being brought in and brought up? You need to change the name of this bill. Call the bill you have brought, and the bill you have discussed, not the public-private partnership, but the bill to make money for one another, and you will not have to make statements that you do not believe. Not that this clause has to be removed from the bill, the entire bill must be taken off the agenda. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0185par0134	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. 10 of the current bill. We offer and propose the addition of the public tender of the tenderment institution to come after the declaration of the Ministry of Development. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0186par0141	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0185par0142	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0187par0143	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0185par0144	Mehmet Erdogan has asked for a statement on the motion, Müğla MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0188par0145	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 10 of the Law Bill 417 that we are discussing. I salute your high council. Now, of course, I'd like to talk more about health problems in our region today. The AKP has overturned ten years in power, continuing its eleventh year. No hospital has been built for ten years to increase the capacity of bed in Mugla, Mr. Secretary. Muğla Medical School has been taking students for two years, and Mukla Medical School doesn't have a research hospital. A research hospital sign on the door of the former State Hospital, and a lecturer on its head in this hospital, unfortunately, is being tried to raise a doctor. These doctors are the young brothers we're all going to trust with tomorrow. In order for these to be fully trained, in order to be able to raise doctors to serve the healthcare sector, our people, this hospital must be performed in a serious, qualified hospital. But, for ten years, unfortunately, there's been a lot of talk about the hospital, but there's been no action. None of our county's hospitals have been provided for. Today, there's been talk of Bodrum State Hospital for ten years, but there's no hospital. Milas State Hospital has been spoken of for ten years, and there are no hospitals. Again, in my own district, the Middle State Hospital has been spoken of for ten years. For ten years, the hospital is at work. Today's project is scheduled, tomorrow's tender. Sir, here's what's going to happen, here's what's going to happen. I'm afraid it's turned into a snake story. Well, of course you didn't do anything to Mughla for ten years. Allah will not grant you any provision in this term. Hopefully, we'll make the investments you neglected in Mugla in the National Party of Action. Look, there's something else going on here. Another long story from this week's South Aegean newspaper is about the hospital: a new study has been launched on the use of the hospital as a hospital after a hotel made by Halcıoğlu the Second Halicioğlu. Ten years ago, Mr. Huseyin Aksoy wrote to the Ministry of Health. He said: "If you say that we can use this building as a hospital, I will make the property of this building public by trading with the owner of a treasure land; examine it. Ten years ago, the Ministry of Health did not care for it. A delegation has been sent, and the cost of turning this place into a hospital is very high. Moreover, Middleja and the region do not need a large hospital this size. So this place is not suitable. They wrote a report, and they turned back. But, now, it's being sent to the press by the AKP District President and the authorities, where a study has been launched concerning the use of this building as a hospital. I mean, we don't believe it's ever gonna be serious, so unfortunately, we have this image of being made fun of by our countrymen. Because it doesn't seem possible to solve the property issue here because there's no such pencil in the budget right now. The fact that this place has been turned into a rental hospital will bring serious burdens, and it won't be much of a profit for the budget or for Medieca. Of course, the launch of this discussion clearly makes one thing clear: It means that, as in all matters, no public hospitals will be built on Middlea, which means that our countrymen are being mocked. There's only one sentence to be said on the whole of this law: Rant is a wonderful excuse for service. It's all for the runt. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0189par0151	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 11 of the same nature, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 11th draft of the current bill, 417 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Izzet Cetin Rahmi Küreli of Love Free Special Mehmet Sugar Aylin Nazlıaka Muharrem Ik Mehmet Hilal Kaplan I'm having other motion holders read: Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı I'm having other motion holders read: Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0190par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0189par0177	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0191par0178	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0189par0179	Mehmet Hilal Kaplan has asked for a statement on the motions.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0192par0180	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation, all the arrested MPs. If you remember me last week when I was discussing the Law Proposal 410 rows, if a law passes through the House at midnight, comes to parliament's agenda without discussion or debate in public, know that either a private person is protected or there's a random situation behind it. Thank God the ruling party didn't fail me. The Law Bill 417 we're interviewing today is of direct interest to health, but has not been discussed at the Health Commission, grounds for work density. And it's a commission that can be a comedy, which hasn't been collected in six months, which is a work density. This is starting to take place in your sense of democracy. I've done it, it's done. You can't give up on your understanding. You use disproportionate force on street rights seekers who want to express their opinion, using pepper spray, baton, and pressure water. There's not much difference in parliament, it's just changing shapes; I do what I know, democracy is a finger democracy, without being discussed in commissions, without the opinion of lawmakers with the will of the people. You don't give up your understanding. Look, on the way to the agenda, in December 2012, when Prime Minister Konya was speaking, he said: "This poor person has a city hospitals project he's been dreaming of for six years. Unfortunately, the Oligarchic bureaucracy and judicial system are interfering with this city hospitals project. I want to remind the Prime Minister that in Turkey, institutions, civil society organisations, the word of opposition, co-operation is the basis of democracy and it is indispensable. Mr. Prime Minister, if you do as you wish, if you violate the independence of the judiciary, if you violate the law, I will do as I please, and this is called democracy. I'm sorry, this is Fascism, not democracy. You know, one of the things you're always bragging about is health, which is one of the things we're most successful in. We receive about 10% of the vote in health care. So, I ask you, in this area of success, what is the reason for sending a minister that you think is a success? Is there any chance that the 417th law that we're interviewing today is a random situation that's worth $50 billion in 25 years? Please, Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if he'd answer that. I heard the Minister yesterday. He's on a new mission. I wish you well, and I wish you well on your new mission, but I'd like to pay attention in listening to the Minister. Yesterday, he made a special emphasis, specifically saying: "We are making a structure that goes to a special area of health, we are making it central. Look, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to transfer your position in this law. You say, "Come to companies through international financial institutions, build a campus here called city hospitals." You say, "I'll pay the investment costs for what you're doing." It's not enough, I'm going to transfer 25 years of rent to these companies, international finances. It's not enough, you're opening all the services you call service on this campus to these companies outside the health and health area. That's the kind of favor you get when you think they can hurt you. I'll give you the authority to operate commercial spaces, to operate commercial areas just outside this campus that you're building, and that would be exempt from VATs and mortars. Once again, you have a soft heart, and you say: "If you do harm again, we will help you build hospitals that we've created and evacuated in the city centers, where commercial space is created, at the point of commercial spaces off campus, the AVM and the mall." Minister, you're a physician. You're a man who knows human psychology and community psychology. Mr. Secretary, if he's listening to me...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0193par0188	The Minister isn't listening. The Minister is busy, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0192par0189	Is it called privatisation, or is it called public use? You guys, I'm sorry, it's called honey privatization. That's what it's called to benefit your followers from state opportunities. I don't mean it in a harsh way. It's about exploiting your allies from state opportunities. This state system, this legal system... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... You'll need this health care one day. Come, stop trampling on this state, this legal system, this health. My respects to all of you again.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0194par0194	Thank you. The second speaker on the proposals is Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0195par0197	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made. I salute you all. Indeed, this bill for health transformation is an arrangement for healthcare in Turkey that redesigns health care in favour of workers, not for the people, but for capital. We've been objecting all along. So if you're editing in a field, first you're doing this, the audience, how people are going to be affected, how people aren't going to be affected, how you're going to do this infrastructure, and you're going to conduct this discussion with people who work in this particular area, who are going to be affected in this area. But instead, the AKP's government has been developing it by doing a profit-sharing calculation all along. After all, capitalism shapes itself over this, and when you look at AKP's ten-year power, how do we apply Neoliberal policies to Turkey? Thus, it is clear now that the approach to privatisation of hospitals is to turn this place back into a business under the name of public-private cooperation. It's not just for hospitals, it's actually for universities. In all areas, the AKP government is doing the need for capitalism, the need for neoliberal policies, and privatising these areas and turning them into something that is not a public benefit, but a loss of society. Who's good here? Private sector. Who's gonna take advantage of it? Because these new hospitals are being built in the form of malls. There's going to be something called consenting. Who's gonna buy it? Here's the private sector. Who's selling it? The government is selling and how health workers will be affected by it, how the public will be affected by it, unfortunately, is not on the agenda here. Because the public isn't the agenda here, the poor aren't the agenda here, the workers aren't the agenda here. What matters is how we can make these poor, hardworking people poorer, exploit them more, improve this health policy! So it's not health regulation, it's not efficient and quality health, it's the law of health disorder. You're completely corrupting public health. Not just physically, but people, for once, will come to the hospital at a psychologically problematic point with these health policies. The doctors who serve here won't be very healthy socially again. This is a serious problem. So once you turn it into a labor boss, you stop people from getting healthy service and health care. What kind of a thing is that? So really, instead of getting out of this job healthy, people will look at the matter of how to make money. He doesn't have the right to organize over it, and he doesn't really have the right to answer to people. As a result, you're already taking hospitals to the remote corners of the cities. You're turning it into a new business. On top of that, you're saying you're doing it for the sake of health. This is a very serious problem. We'd like to rephrase that. However, if we were to develop health policies -- and look at how this would be more efficient -- let's say we think about the organisation of health workers, the health services of health workers, and let's think about it, and let's think about it, and let's think about organization in this field. But not all of this. Only here, how we can make more profit, how we can make some companies rich... because there are companies that will make these private hospitals. These companies are probably ready by now. It's a point of how these companies are going to make more profit. We, on the other hand, would like to express once again that there is a mental problem in health policy. We think health should be without money and health care should be provided in the native language. Everyone must have access to the right to health, access the most easily, and access it free of charge. Now, just by giving this job to the private sector of health without all these conditions, turning this place into a profit-making center doesn't mean we're doing good things for health in Turkey, which is how the government markets it. We know that. If that were true, the health workers would not object. If that were true, the public wouldn't object, but the AKP government's concern, of course, is not to provide the rights of workers, the poor, but to him at another point. But remember, your power is temporary, too. It's probably the AKP government that makes the most laws here -- during your term of power -- that doesn't mean you're working hard; it means you're doing a lot of work on the runt, and you're turning this system into your own. It's a serious problem.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0196par0204	Let go Sebahat Haným! Okay, you've said your piece. What's all this rant, rant, rant?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0195par0205	If it's not Rant, tell me how many people he's gonna do something about it...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0196par0206	Read it, what should I tell you?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0195par0207	We read, of course, because we read. Why are you uncomfortable with the opposition?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0196par0208	I don't mind the opposition, I don't mind the way you say it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0195par0209	Just when you're privatizing the healthcare area, you're making money, you're making poor working people even more difficult. I just want to say that we're against it.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0196par0211	Don't use the working people.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0197par0212	Thank you. You recommended Lightning, Samsun MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0198par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our group on Article 11 of the law on public-private partnership number 417. On this occasion, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all -- a dear fellow MP who just mentioned -- I would like to say that this law basically includes health care and I don't think it's right for him to come here without a meeting at the Health Commission. And, of course, we're all here discussing how health care can be presented better, better, and we all have a common goal, which is how health care is better presented to our people in our country. As a matter of fact, in terms of the National Movement Party, we care about two forms of this. One, we have objections as a form of production. Second, we have some concerns about the contribution of his presentation to health care, which we object to. For one thing, we object to this being issued with a special law and given under that special law. The reason is that we have some concerns that the AKP has been released with a special law before, when it is being tendered with the Public Contraction Agency and other state laws, that it has not been very good at its record, and we have thoughts that it will be created a runt. In that respect, I express our concerns. Given the contribution of health care, dear friends, there is no change in the logic of this law and health care, so there is no change in the logic of its presentation. Public hospitals will be moved there and run within the scope of public hospitals. However, the amount to which these hospitals will be paid is said to be $55 billion for 14 projects in 25 years. So we're saying that this isn't very random when we're considering benefits. We think it would be much better for us to modernize our hospitals that are present today, or to be hospitalized in the areas where they need to be, and to have these health care presentations taken away. We don't think that leaving these hospitals and moving public hospitals to other hospitals would have much to do with health care. We have an objection in that regard. So, there's nothing in the system that started today with a transformation project in health for ten years and then came up with the performance system, and today with a public-special partnership, my dear friends, that solves health problems. Today, the most important printout of the healthcare system is about patient and technology pickup. So there's a provoked patient potential, there's an increase in quantity for patients, but everyone knows that a qualified health care presentation cannot be done under these circumstances, unfortunately. The presentation of health care depends on the satisfaction of both parties. So both health care providers and health care providers must be satisfied. There's something we've been saying all along that health care servers have had major problems here. Many health servers have now been exposed to violence and so on, and for four or five years, I think, since 2009, there has been no increase in the presentation of health care services, so there has been no increase in payments. As you increase your patient potential, we will increase this quality of health care. You have no right to say, "If you don't increase it in any way, you don't have a quality of health care." And in one article of this law, it says that Turkish courts are responsible in the absence of sleep, the Turkish courts are the entity. My dear friends, the Prime Minister has taken nationalism at his feet... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and when he put the Turkish thing under his feet...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0199par0227	He's putting racism under the table.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0198par0228	I think it's necessary for me to have this clause revoked, or I would like to ask my fellow AK PARTI MP friends specifically: please tell me who this nation is and let this nation know from now on. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0199par0231	Racism, skullheading, it's getting under your skin, so don't bother.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0200par0232	He'll teach you soon enough!
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0201par0233	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12 of the current bill. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı You've brought Lightning Reşat Right Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft of the current bill, 417 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Mehmet Sugar Muharrem Illum Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0202par0252	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0201par0253	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0203par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0204par0255	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0201par0256	Mehmet Şeker, MP of Gaziantep, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0205par0258	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends have been interviewed by the Plan and Budget Commission for about a month now and have arrived at the House. In this case, of course, we'll discuss our views on the following issues regarding the law. Mr. Minister, we know that the health expenditures in 2012 are $44.4 billion. This 44.4 billion dollars is 29.4 billion dollars spent on treatment services, 14.4 billion on drug costs, so a lot of about 44 billion are spent on treatment services. When the increase in health expenditures was examined in 2012, it appears that 95 per cent of the increase in treatment, 3 per cent of the drug, and the remaining 2 per cent are in other spending resources. Dear lawmakers, we see that the number of applications to the hospital, which is the source of treatment spending, also includes a 24 per cent increase, and by the end of 2012, 304 million. 304 million people have applied to hospitals, and most of all -- of course it's not private -- there's an application to public hospitals, and there's a significant role in contributing. In 2012, the maximum application, or rather the average cost increase per application, occurred in public hospitals again, which took place in the second level of public hospitals. I just wanted to talk to you about these, the general stuff first. And we also see that there is another important component of health spending and that drug spending that has been watching a stable number in recent years has not grown very seriously, that the number of prescriptions has not increased much, but we have written 338 million prescriptions. In the number of prescriptions, of course, if you calculate the commissions in pharmaceutical companies, the decline in drug costs, there's no serious increase. What we're seeing here, my dear fellow congressmen, is that we've been fully committed to treatment services. Protective medicine, unfortunately, is nowhere in this country, and therefore, the World Health Organization says that the next generation -- the first one to explain in such a meeting -- will be shorter-lived than the next generation. It's caused by chronic diseases. If you can prevent chronic diseases, if you can prevent them, you can contribute to both the economy of your country and the average human life. My fellow lawmakers, I am a member of the trustee committee of the Turkey Diabetes Foundation. In the 2000 survey, the number of diabetics in Turkey was 7.2. Note that even though we prescribed 338 million prescriptions, even though we examined so many patients, even though we made so many hospitals and increased the number of beds, today the number of diabetic patients in Turkey has risen to 13.9. Which means we're on the wrong track, Mr. Secretary, we're on the wrong track. I'm asking you, first of all, to take a serious interest in protective health care, to do some very serious work on it. Look, it's in the Social Security Agency budget, we pay for everything, but we don't pay for preventive health care, we don't pay for meetings about it, we don't support our fellow physicians working on it, we don't support any work done. Which, of course, would be a serious problem for our country. And the World Health Organization also says that one of the most important reasons to cause an international crisis is the increase of chronic diseases. And again, Minister, I would like to ask you to make peace with our fellow physicians, please make peace with our university teachers again, and do your best to implement protective health care in Turkey, and write your name down in history. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0206par0272	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12 of the current bill. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0207par0279	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0206par0280	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0208par0281	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0206par0282	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0209par0283	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the 12th amendment of the law we're discussing. I salute the High Council. Of course, we're about to finish the first chapter of the law that we've been discussing, and it's coming to its final clauses. Of course, the main goal here is that we don't have the money for our hospital that we're thinking of doing, so we're going to arrange it. Of course, this is an opening to the private sector under the name of privatisation. Of course, we're discussing this, but I'm guessing we're not going to get a lot of results. Congressmans, there are serious health issues in our country as well. Today, a citizen from the district of Reshadiye in Tokat called us after a full-time statement was issued in the newspapers. It says, citizen: "We were going to Ankara, Istanbul -- we wanted to be examined in colleges -- in the past tenses -- what do we do if there's no line?" By investing some money in the return capital, we could get an examination there. It says, "Here we are. We can't examine the teachers with the removal of the Full-Day Law, which had been issued in the past tense. We're coming, we're forced to leave without an examination, and eventually we're victims. Mr. Secretary, we have to do this very quickly. Right now, college teachers are in serious trouble. Our university professors need to be supported from a patient's examination to an O.R. We also know in the past tense that our Prime Minister, our former Minister of Health, had operated on some of our teachers during their illness. So why should my citizens not use their rights, my fellow citizens in the village of Redcaören of Reshadia? So I believe that the law that you've recently told the press will happen, and we'll be re-appreciating our college professors. Look, the clinics are being closed, and you may consider it closed correctly, but let's not forget, lawmakers, you won't find any rich doctors in physicians. The physicians put forth their own hard work and can provide for themselves. You can see a gallery owner who's rich, you can see a banker, or you can see another professional, but you can't see any physician who's rich with the work of his profession. So we expect this law to be passed quickly. Another thing, as of yesterday, I asked in the chapter one section, is that there are a lot of serious problems with participation in some groups in our country right now. Look, there are people with very low income, people with green cards, retired people. They can't pay their turnout. You say that at the point of capture, at least at the point of constraint, we want to continue to talk about these participation shares. But remember that the pharmacies are already passed on to the system that has been used, who has been given the drug, who has been given it, how it is used, or how it is used. Therefore, the issue of participation shares must be stretched. Again, another issue is about food. See, in our country, food is now being used at various points. Here's long-lived milk, long-lived yogurt, or bread that doesn't go stale, or other foods. Mr. Secretary, there are some very serious problems with this, too. What are these short-term, middle-term, and long-term foods that citizens use? Look, right now, there's starch-based sugar... there's biscuits with starch-based sugar, there's juice, or there's various kinds of -- hold on to a lot of food. What are the things that this starch-based sugar does in the human body? It seems recently that allergic skin rash diseases have been increasing heavily, especially in their clinics, and cancer cases have also increased, so there should be research at this point. At the moment, the proportion of starch-based sugar in the world has been constantly reduced. See, it's a law that's been passed in the past, and it's currently used in our country at around 10 to 15 percent of starch-based sugar, but it has to be edited. So if it is used in countries of the European Union or in the United States at around 2%, why is it not used at this rate in my country, or shouldn't such an arrangement be made from the protective medicine department? Of course, some arrangements are also needed, especially regarding AMATEM centres, such as alcohol and substance abuse centres. The issue of substance abuse in our country is growing very rapidly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0210par0294	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 13; the two are of the same nature, and I am reading the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 13th draft of the current 417 rows of legislation. The article is... Pre-investigative Undersecretary opinion on drafting contracts for implementation in terms of projects that have been announced as of the date when this clause is in effect, including derivative products, does not apply to the partial commitment and the limit of borrowing. We propose and propose that the declaration be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli İzzet Cetin Free Special Mehmet Sugar Muharrem Illum Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the current bill. The pre-institutory opinion on drafting pre-institution agreements on the application agreements that have been announced as of the date when this clause is in effect, including those due to derivative products, does not apply to partial commitments and liabilities. We propose and propose that the declaration be removed from the text of substance. Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı You've summoned Lightning Ali Öz Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 417 Line 13 of the Numbered Legislature We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0211par0321	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0210par0322	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0212par0323	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0210par0324	This is Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0213par0326	Mr. President, I have made a commitment by the Ministry of Health to the amendment to Article 13 of the Law on Building, Reconstruction, and Service. I hereby salute the General Assembly. The most important step in transitioning to modern health care in our country is by the Law on Socialization of Health Services 224, adopted in 1961. This law is prepared with an egalitarian approach and acknowledges that all health services in Turkey are a state's duty. The law aims to promote first-level services to the rural areas, to benefit everyone from health care, to ensure that protective and healing health care are carried out in an integrated manner. The law also provides a one-handed management of public health care in the public sector, public integration, and the principle of full-time work for physicians in the public sector. But what's happening now is quite different. As a result of policies imposed by the Ministry of Health in Turkey's health sector, an important market has been created in the last decade by nearly four times the size of it. This growth has been determined by a huge increase in the social security institution's health costs and the increase in the amount transferred from the public budget to the healthcare sector. With this growth, the country has also witnessed the growth of its private health sector at four times its speed over the past years. The Health Transformation Programme, which has been implemented under the Justice and Development Party's rule, is also trying to make radical changes in health care as it intervenes in health organisation, financing and presentation. The bill that stands before us is seen as a continuation of the Health Transformation Programme. The changes put into place in both planning and employment areas of the human power process are as closely concerned with the community as with health workers, because overall change is not based on human focus, but on profit. This can be given as the most crucial example of the number of subcontractors working for the Ministry of Health. According to the Health Ministry's 2010 data, the number of subcontractors, which were 11k in 2002, increased to 118k in 2010. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the release of health care to the private sector is also a prerequisite for having health care and money-related assurances. In contrast, health care should not be replaced by another service, health care should not be replaced by a service area with less financial value. Ignore that health care is a basic human right because a patient needs health care because he does not have money or health care. A customer's view of health care providers will prevent health from becoming a basic human right. Perhaps the United States is the best example to give in this regard. About 50 million people in the United States, where income per person is over $30,000 and the highest health expenditure per person, are not getting enough health care. Now, with this bill, the days will come when such a situation will take place. This bill, the first step in the clear privatisation of health, will not be a simple privatisation; our people will not be able to benefit from health care, but even our grandchildren will be able to pay off the debt. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, while it is possible to make a much cheaper investment based on the method of state tender law, which has been implemented so far, far more affordable than the basic and procedures specified, the administration's specific procedures and rules for the tender are counterproductive to the public interest. Therefore, I demand the acceptance of our amendment motion from the High Council, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0214par0336	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 417 rows, is 13. of the article "... "The pre-investigator's opinion on the draft of implementation contracts in terms of projects that have been announced as of the date when this clause is in effect, including the results of derivative products," the declaration said. We offer and propose that his statement be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the current bill. of the article "... "The pre-investigator's opinion on the draft of implementation contracts in terms of projects that have been announced as of the date when this clause is in effect, including the results of derivative products," the declaration said. We offer and propose that his statement be removed from the text of matter. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0215par0346	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0214par0347	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0216par0348	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0217par0349	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0214par0350	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0218par0352	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I condemn the incidents that took place here in Silivri, which caused many of our people to be injured, as well as the injury of our MP Mahmut Tanal. People went there now to say no to the law, and they went there, hoping to see their relatives a little bit more, and they didn't make any excesses, but unfortunately they were almost kept in cages. At the same time, in accordance with the CMC's Penal Code, the courts, the Silivri courts, the monuments of lawlessness, have not even listened to these witnesses and have made it clear that they do not recognise any laws. We don't know the Silivri courts, we don't know the courts, we don't know them, we don't know them. No matter how much pressure there is, no matter how many attacks on us, we will continue to go. Everyone needs to know that. I also condemn the attack on our fellow lawyers at the Istanbul courthouse. Our lawyer friends did just sit-ins at the courthouse with no violence to protest the situation of the arrested lawyers, but our lawyer friends, the main elements of the courthouse, were attacked there and dragged to the ground. They couldn't even file their petitions to the Attorney General. I strongly condemn this attack on the right to defend our fellow lawyers. Dear friends, this bill that we're discussing today, you all know very clearly, it's contrary to the Article 56 of the Constitution. Health care is actually a public service, but this law is now privatised and is left at the mercy of almost international companies, health care in Turkey. I also made a promise to tell you about an incident that happened here at the footman. There was an arrangement, a protocol, in 2009. Two of our 650-bed hospitals, unfortunately, have been traded to a 400-bed hospital by handing them over to the TOKI. We've learned that this 400-bed hospital will be opened on Monday, but we haven't been publicly told what the fate of our other two hospitals will be until now. We've filed lawsuits. In this regard, 30 NGOs have appealed to both the Ministry and the public. In order for these hospitals not to be closed, we have made it very clear that if our 650-bed hospital is turned into a 400-bed hospital, health care will fail at the House of Mençe, and there will also be a follow-up of some of the very valuable subsidiaries in the area of our two hospitals. The servants said that they would never allow them, that they would not allow these hospitals to be destroyed. Now, that, my dear friends, is how it is done in the same way as this day's bill, the footman. Our hospital areas in the most valuable part of the city are being handed over to the TOKI, and we hear there will be a shopping mall and a dwelling by TOKI. Now, perhaps the TOKI will be given up, and since it is a very profitable investment with this arrangement, there will be jobs to be built, to be built, to be built by these companies, to be built, for profit. But believe me, as in all Turkey, the Housekeepers will never forgive a public health damage to such a procedure. You'll see the results of this election, my dear friends. As long as you continue to do this injustice, this wrong, the people will show you the way you need to do it. If the destruction of our hospitals in the footman is involved -- if the Minister can examine it, he will see how reactive the banelings are -- our people there will have to go to a place six kilometers outside the city because of the destruction of the hospitals they will go to in the center of the city. At the same time, since the hospital's choice of location is so wrong, because it's the crossing of the State Railways, we can't reach the hospital in situations where the hospital needs to be reached, and we can face serious consequences in cases such as cerebral bleeding and heart attacks, because ambulances can't pass through the gate of the State Railway. So, as a result of this kind of wrong choice of place, I did it. The result of these kinds of wrongs with logic is the health system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will lead to very severe consequences from its pain and will show our people the true face of the AKP's power. My regards to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0219par0363	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0220par0364	Mr. President has given false information on certain matters. I want to make a correction.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0219par0365	That's not the way it works. No, is there some sort of bullying against you?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0220par0366	Because he said, "Son of a bitch..."
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0221par0367	What's it got to do with you, Mr. Ismail? Fix what? Are you going to tell me what you did wrong out there?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0219par0369	Erkan Akçay, Alderman of Manisa, who wants to make a statement on the other motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0222par0371	Mr. President, we'll begin, but I'll start when we're done with the reciprocating, Mr. President. You said the air was cloudy, the necessary tenderness was shown. Very valuable MPs, I have made a commitment to this motion on the 13th article we've discussed. I salute your honorable committee. Article 13 is an indicator that the public-private partnership model brought into the health sector is embodyed by arrangements that we find to be AKP, irrelevant and irrational. The experience of applications around the world shows that public resources cannot be used effectively and efficiently in the model of public-private cooperation. Government resources are wasted in favour of the private sector. As a matter of fact, the European Investment Bank has explained that fixed investments in public-private co-operation are 24 per cent more expensive than the loans used for financing and 83 per cent more expensive than the state debt. All of these costs are above the state budget, which means they're going public. With this model, the private sector can max out its profits at any cost. The private sector doesn't risk a penny. With this bill, the Justice Development Party has reached the peak of privatisation practices so far. This understanding that sees health investments as an economic and commercial activity, not as a function of being a social state, has saved the biggest, oily, honeyy slice of cake for this law. Moreover, the world is under the guise of unprecedented provisions. The payment of debt in Article 13 contains many different provisions from the world's examples. The risk will go to the state, to the private sector, with AKP's love of privatisation. Financial obligations and risks stemming from investment and services and derivative products are up to the state. The bill also provides carefully selected arrangements for the cost of the private sector to ride on the back of the citizen. The guarantee of treasure in financing agreements and derivative costs reveals the government's failure in economic management. By guaranteeing a treasure, the government also undermines the public's trust and confesses to this insecurities. In this system, where the state is responsible for all its burdens, the AKP is exempting investments under the law from stamp taxes and tuition. It is a tragic expression that the cost of the contract is not increasing and that the public will not be burdened any further. For one thing, you're already choosing the most expensive method of health investment in the world. Now you're talking about reducing contract costs with a symbolic tax, like a stamp tax. If that is not an example of unconsciousness, then indeed, it is a mockery of the mind and intelligence of the nation. This bill will lead to the privatisation and especially alienation of the public health sector. The AKP can meet its foreign investor goal, probably will, because with this bill, full capitalization is envisioned as a concession, privilege system. Foreign investors are excited, looking forward to the release of this law. In the capitulation system, this system is of no use to the country's economy. We're not opposed to foreign capital investing in our country, but foreign capital needs to move towards the area, the exports and production sectors that need to be invested in. In this way, the country will receive foreign currency, the current will be reduced, and the employment problem will be resolved. The AKP provides incentives for foreign investors in the service sector. Moreover, health care will not provide efficiency or efficiency. In the end, if the bill becomes legal as it is, the eyes of the world's giant companies in the media over the past seven or eight months will be more frequent in the huge city hospitals in Turkey. With these thoughts, I expect you to support our motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0223par0381	I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 417 rows. It's the 14th draft. In the article, we offer and propose payment of the payment of the fee and other issues related to financing from the text. Bhent Kuşoglu Rahmi Küreli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Gürkut Acar Nurettin Demir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Fourteen of the current bill. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı You've summoned Lightning Ali Öz Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0224par0397	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0223par0398	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0225par0399	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0223par0400	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0226par0402	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 14th Amendment. I salute your honorable committee. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as we enter this matter, I'd like to begin by asking the Minister to direct my question to the government, saying, "What is the state hospital of our Manisa, Manisa, the city hospital of Manisa?" Since 2004-2005, we will build a 400-bed area hospital, especially pre-election promises. It's been eight or nine years, and there's nothing, no hospitals, no construction. Today's tomorrow, today's tomorrow; Manisa's been hanging around for eight or nine years. As of late 2009, the site of this hospital was turned over to the Treasury by the City of Manisa, and the necessary allocations were made. According to information, seven preliminary qualifications for building a hospital on December 23, 2010 are being handed over to the administration. Conclusion? There's no conclusion. More than two years have passed, valued lawmakers, still unable to make the tender, the government, the Ministry of Health. Why? Now, there must be an answer given by the government. The administration's preliminary feasibility report calculates the total investment amount of 122m Turkish liras, including land and business capital investments, and the annual rent price at Manisa Hospital is determined as $64m Turkish lira. 122 million fixed capital investments, $64 million a year's rent. Compared to the fixed amount of investment set in the preliminary feasibility report, the two-year rent rate is 128 million liras; it comes to $6m more than the fixed investment price. These numbers may vary, but comparisons are important -- the comparison between fixed capital investment and the annual rent price. The preliminary feasibility report claims that the annual rent the contractors are going to demand is estimated to be $8m of Turkish lira, which is nearly 8 times the price of the tender in the preliminary feasibility report. If there's anything wrong with the numbers I'm saying here, please let our Ministry of Health give us the right information to report here, and we will, of course, honor the official information given by the Minister of Health. Although we have asked several times in the Commission on various occasions, I'm afraid we haven't been able to get a very clear and clear answer. All the Manisas wonder about it. This has now turned into a snake story, and public opinion, society, needs to be enlightened as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, there is no quality or efficiency in health care, nor a model for the benefit of all our citizens. The bill contains provisions that would suggest the opposite of these ideals. So in the end, we're already expressing the consequences as a vision. First: Quality and activity in health care will be eliminated. Health care will be fully transferred to the private sector, and the private sector will be able to lower service standards to increase its profitability. It's a danger, it's a danger. Second: Professional independence and efficiency will suffer greatly because health workers will be made workers of the private sector. Third: There are negative regulations for our citizens who use health care as the bill eliminates public authority over health care. Only those who can pay for this service will benefit from the health services the Prime Minister considers five stars. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0227par0415	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 417 rows. It's the 14th draft. In the article, we offer and propose payment of the payment of the fee and other issues related to financing from the text. Nurettin Demir (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0228par0422	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0227par0423	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0229par0424	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0227par0425	Nurettin Demir, MP of the Muğla, is asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0230par0427	Mr. President, I'm speaking on the amendment motion of Bill 417 of the 14th Amendment. Now, respected lawmakers, I would like to emphasize again in front of you the events that took place on Monday, February 18th. I didn't go for the first time, I went for the 15th time, and unfortunately, the practice here, the welcome here, was inhuman. Let alone being human, not being a witness, not being a lawyer, even lawmakers were really disrespectful to Turkey and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We say that we are the MPs, that we are the MPs of the nation, but the security forces there, brother, we've been treated as if we're not going to be dealt with by the MPs. Therefore, I condemn the Home Secretary, especially the government. Would a congressman have to break through the barricades, fellas? So a congressman will cross the barricades, break his heel, and laugh through lawmakers in power or opposition. It's a disgrace to democracy. This is particularly the marketing of health, the increase in treatment services, Socialization Act 224, and the Nusret Fireworks Teacher who brought it up here once again...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0231par0431	It's not a million dollars, it's a billion dollars...
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0230par0432	Yeah, a billion dollars. It makes someone drool, my friends, and the government is doing everything in its power to attract them. It's a Rant law, my dear friends. Law number 417 contradicts the Law of Contraction, which is unclear, and ignores the Law of Contraction. This law mixes the tender with corruption; I repeat, it's mixed with corruption. Aren't you going after opposition party municipalities, even though there's no corruption involved? So, how are you going to handle this from now on? The country's resources, the public's health, are in pursuit of each other, as this law is mixed with corruption in the tender. This law does not serve the rights of the people. Why is this law being passed? He's got his eyes full of money, he'll serve the capitalist exploitation order. Someone's going to market the health of the sick and the public, fill your pockets. The AKP also prepares legal cover for this. This law is the law that lays the groundwork for exploitation. With this law, there will be no medical staff in the hospitals, there will be no arrangements, no study of it. Subcontractorization will increase, be enslaved. Dear friends, we used to go to parks in cities. Now, we fill it with mosques, mosques are a place to go, but theaters are closing, cinemas are closing, but hospitals are crowded, people are getting sick. So, what do we do there? Let's do a mall, and the patients with the probes go to the mall. Sir, 20 percent of urology patients are given discounts and 40 percent of cancer patients. So, Mr. Secretary, members of the commissioners, members of the Council of Ministers, this law will not cure people, it will not heal them, it will make them more sick. My respects.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit03spe0232par0438	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, we wish our representative in the UEFA Champions League, Galatasaray Football Team, the success of his match with the Schalke 04 team. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit04spe0232par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 417. There's no commission, it's postponed. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit04spe0233par0007	Mr. President, thank you. Actually, I'd like all of our congressman friends to hear it before we take a break. Recently, when such a matter took place, we asked that our Parliamentary Speakers be informed of the mercy of their relatives, Hakkk, but it must have been neglected. Vice-President of the National Movement Party, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan has lost his mother, and we wish the deceased God's blessings; we wish condolences and patience to his grieving family, the community of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit04spe0234par0010	Thank you. We pray for God's mercy. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit04spe0235par0014	We share the pain of the esteemed MP of MHP, and we offer our condolences, and we wish the rest of you good health, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit04spe0234par0015	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit04spe0236par0017	And we, as a group, thank you, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, for sharing our pain. On this occasion, I also wish Mr. Mahmut Tanal well well.
tbmm-2013-02-20sit04spe0234par0019	Thank you. We will begin negotiations with commission reports 212 in the 4th place. [[Continue]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with commission reports 240 rows in the 5th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Commission Report 49, which is ranked in the 6th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Commission Report 192 in the 7th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (February 21st 2013), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
