tbmm-2013-04-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. ♪ Y-O-K-L-A-M-A ♪ We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'd like the MPs to press vote buttons and report that they've been in the hall, while lawmakers who have not been able to access the electronic system, ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system, will be able to deliver their roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of Izmir, who has asked for the 16th anniversary of the death of the late Alparslan Türkesh. [[Noises]] Congressmans, there's a big hum in the House. Please, we'd better stop that noise. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0002par0017	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the permanent leader of Turkish politics and state life, the leader of Turkish nationalists, the country of the Turkish nation and the country of the Turkish nation, the 16th anniversary of the death of Alparslan Turkesh, who has made its life's main goal to live honorably with his country to the end of the apocalypse. I have made a promise to reminisce of his saintly memory once again. My respects to all of you. The late Alparslan Turkesh was a great nationalist, a great patriot, who knew what was wrong with his country and his state. He believed in his people with unwavering faith, and dedicated his life to his nation, whose life he loved as a saint. His understanding of the state is based on the nation, and he calls it a national democracy. His political philosophy is based on the rising national state in the hands of the Turkish nation. To him, serving the nation is the greatest virtue of all, to be loyal to the nation, to love, to respect, and to trust. Therefore, Turkesh, as our Turkish nationalists, our case is to glorify and maintain the existence of the Turkish nation forever. This idea, another opinion on this case, another case can't be included. No action, which does not serve the idea of maintaining, raising, and sustaining the existence of the Turkish nation, is legitimate to the Turkish nation. When you say that, in fact, at the end of the day, it is in a sense, drawing attention and warning from beyond history, to other forces, to the unity of the nation and to the realm. Alparslan Türkesh has always seen the way of the Turkish nation's governance, the fate line in the democratic national state. He defended the Turkish nation's belief, its values, its understanding of government for the rest of its life. Thus, Turkesh, the solution to our problems is to mobilise and stimulate public energy in a common goal as a nation, faith, will and excitement. It is possible for human personality to develop and form in free and democratic regimes. Free and non-democratic regimes are against human personality. There's no respect in these regimes, no human love. Our philosophy is to love, count, and ask for his glory. Therefore, we oppose all regimes that oppose the free, democratic order, and we do not believe them. Alparslan Turkesh had a vision that could see beyond the time horizon. He was a wise leader, predicting the future, expressing his concerns about the future, sharing it with his people. He became a leader that history justified. It seems recently that nationalism has been tried to be taken under the influence of others, that this country needs more of its nationalism, of its nationalism, of its view of the nation. Alparslan Türkesh says in his speech on December 26, 1991: "If you want to get the people of a country, if you want to get the people of a country, if you want to get the people of a country, if you want to get the people of a country, if you want to get the social and psychological side, by analyzing it, you can alienate people from their own government, against their own people. This is a science, a system, used against many countries, and is now used for Turkey's eyebrow. But the east and the west and the people of our land are brothers to each other. As Kurdish as our Kurdish-speaking brothers are, we are as Kurdish as they are Turkish as we are Turkish. Our nation's power, the survival of our state, is essential to the survival of our national unity. In this regard, the inner security of our nation must be kept strong. ▪ To those who discuss the state system today, the political solution to cultural differences in the shadow of the PKK gun, Mr. Turkesh gives a warning to those who impose under the name of it: asking for separation, asking for federation in this region, asking for autonomy, or seeking autonomy in the name of self-democratisation, it will cause Turkey to start disintegrating. We won't tear Turkey apart, we're determined to. Yes, dear friends, the lifespan of Basbug Turkesh has been fought against those who want to divide and divide the nation with warnings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] His only passion, his only love, is the Turkish nation, which has thousands of years of glorious history. Chief, we bow before your blessed memory, as the unrelenting Nefers of this difficult case which is yours. May the Lord of the Right Celle Jalaluhu place be a paradise, and make you neighbor to our great Prophet Muhammad Mustafa. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Vural. The second non-responsive statement is from Şanlıurfa MP John Akman, who asked for the appointment of 4 April International Day of Mine Development. Here you are, Mr. Akman.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0004par0031	Mr. President, I have been promised on April 4th because of the International Day of Mines Development, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. Before I start, tomorrow, April 5th is Lawyer's Day. I begin by celebrating this day for all my colleagues. Also, the week we're in is Cancer Week. With regard to cancer, which is one of the most relentless diseases of our time, I wish for immediate healing for those suffering from this disease, and I ask for patience for their relatives. Again, the 16th anniversary of the death of Mr. Turkesh, the founder of the National Movement Party, I hereby commemorate him with mercy. Dear lawmakers, about 80 percent of landmines every year cause the deaths of 15,000 to 20,000 people, including children, women and elderly people, and many more, to be seriously injured. Antipersonal landmines, which have been widely used in conflict since 1938, are still in the territory of 78 countries. Most land mines have survived World War II, and have been estimated to have mines in about 110 million countries worldwide since the 1960s. In order to explain the veracity of this situation, I think it would have to be enough: the production of the mine can cost about $3 to 75 American dollars, while the removal of one mine can be cleared to about $300 to $1,000 U.S. dollars. On the other hand, even in the mine-cleaning work of trained personnel, it is presumed that about 1 staff will die for every 5,000 mines that have been cleaned and two personnel will be seriously injured. In 1996, especially after the cold war period in the world, some countries under the leadership of Canada, Austria and Germany launched a process known as the Ottawa Process, where, as a result of this process, valuable lawmakers and an international agreement was signed to ban antipersonal landmines, known as the Ottawa Convention, to be wiped out completely. As of 2008, 156 countries sided with this agreement. As of March 1, 2004, this international contract was adopted in terms of our country. With this contract coming into effect, we've been fighting for our country for three semesters, especially for the removal of landmines, as a member of our AK PARTI administration -- and I represent border regions. As a result of this struggle, our Finance Ministry launched a tender, which was cancelled by the main opposition party of the period, the Republican People's Party, at the point of clearing mines in Şırnak and Mardin districts, and the process did not work. Later -- within the knowledge of our friends -- during 2009, the Turkish Grand National Assembly passed a law on this issue. In this framework, a law has been passed specifically on the terms and details of the tender for the removal of mines on the Syrian border. Although some cleaning has been done today, some of its important parts are border crossings, we know that there are still a large number of mines buried in the borders of the Republic of Turkey, about 977, almost 1 million mines. We know that these mines have caused a large amount, or earlier, death of about 32 people a day, and we know that it has still cost people around 11 or 12 people around the world, and I've taken the word off-the-tops because of the fact that this problem needs to be overcome as soon as possible, and to draw attention to this issue. I wish for a world without mines, peaceful and peaceful tomorrows. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Akman. The third unscheduled statement is from Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça, who asked for the appointment of 5 April Day of Lawyers. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0006par0047	Mr. President, I've been promised on April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular, social state of law that respects human rights and freedoms, which finds its testimony in Article 2 of the Constitution. The most important feature of the legal state is that the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals are guaranteed - a system of justice. The most important element of the legal state is that the judiciary is free of all influence and oppression, full independence and freedom of conscience. On the way to the state of law, the founding elements of the judiciary are claims, defences and judgments. No doubt the most important element of an independent judiciary is the lawyer. Where lawyers are silenced, there's no talking about judicial independence. Where there's no independence of justice, there's no talking about individual rights and freedoms, where there's no individual rights and freedoms, where there's no law state, where there's no legal state, there's no democracy. The problem of lawyers today is the issue of independent judiciary, the problem of the state of law, the problem of democracy, the issue of justice. Unfortunately, in the implementation of advanced democracy of AKP power, the judiciary has been entirely used as an instrument of intimidation, suppression, intimidation. In the latest process, the high judicial bodies, the HSYK, the Constitutional Court's structure, have been under political influence and pressure, gestapo by special authorities, and the implementation of the fascist regime on September 12th, have become a subject of personal injustice, oppression, violence, violence, human rights violations, and ultimately the pressures of lawyers. These courts, such as the Silivri concentration camp, have become a gestapo center, where social opposition has been intimidated, intimidated, threatened, justice has been taken underfoot. Today, this has already been a black mark on our history of democracy. In our country, false digital documents have been produced in criminal investigations, and digital fraud criminal gangs have formed in Turkey. The government takes out packages on packages, the judicial packages come out, but there's no justice in these packages, there's no freedom in these packages, there's no right to a fair trial from these packages, my dear friends. I would like to address the Minister of Justice here: Courts of Justice are not packages and coals, but palaces of justice should be places where justice is distributed, the Minister of Justice must understand that. Today, our nation's rightful owners, the rights of our people have been seized, the opposition has been oppressed, workers have been ununioned, agriculture, livestock have been terminated; our villagers, pensioners, teachers, struggle to live within the borders of hunger and poverty. At the end, it's the lawyers' turn to be silenced. Look, there are a lot of problems in the world today waiting for lawyers to be solved. However, in this environment of public justice, where the defense is under attack today, lawyers can only ask for one thing about themselves in the name of the community, and he can ask for justice, justice, justice. My dear friends, I'd like to remind you of a statement that lawyers record as a professional motto and hang in all lawyers and bars: "Agents, while we do our duty, we are subject to no one, no client, no judge, no power. We don't claim that there are people below us, but we don't know any hierarchical superiors. It's no different than the most senior or the one who's made a name for himself. Lawyers have never used slaves in history, but they never had masters. Now, from here, the Istanbul Bar and all the barmen are screaming, saying we will continue to defend the judiciary and the state of the law with all our strength for freedom and democratic Turkey, for real and fair trial. From here, in the great ordeals of the defense, the justice fighter who seeks justice in the courts celebrates the Lawyer's Day of all our colleagues, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0007par0057	Thank you, Mr. Havut. I'll give you my word on the 60th article. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate my esteemed colleagues, who are key building blocks of the judicial function, who wish to work in a legal order on April 5th, where everyone is judged in accordance with the rules of fair and universal law, where cases are concluded within reasonable times, courts are independent and impartial, their imprisonments are reduced to reasonable levels, their rights of defence are not restricted, the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law prevails. I'm honored to have received the 40th anniversary plaque at the Bar Association's plaque. We are opposed to the laws of the legal state that will lead to losses in the professional rights of lawyers who have an important role in implementing the function of the judiciary. Lawyers, who are an important part of the justice mechanism in law-making processes, should also be considered opinions and suggestions. The green passport must be given to the lawyers. There is a problem with public defenders' rights to retirement, basic rights to equity, the right to an independent duty...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0009par0069	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the most important milestones in Turkish nationalism, the key figure of the Turkish world, Basbug Alparslan Türkesh, is that on the 16th anniversary of his death, we remember with mercy, gratitude and gratitude. The late Basbug was a unique leader who was able to embrace different political approaches with the condition that he was a national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation, who was as Kurdish as a Turk as a Turk, who was aware of the brotherhood's law. Alparslan Türkesh was one of the rare political and state figures who could solve any social, cultural, economic problems of the Turkish nation. There is much in this framework that today's power will learn from Turkesh, and from his political organization, the MHP. May the Lord have mercy on you. Let the Prophet be neighborly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0011par0077	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0012par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the most fundamental elements of equality in the eyes of justice is, without a doubt, the right to defend. The practice of the right of defense, the integral part of the legal system, is of great importance in our democratic lives and a serious role in the act of justice. The duty and responsibility they carry in order to ensure justice and rightfulness is known to our society and to address the problems faced in professional ethics and social relations, depending on the law. Increase confidence in justice, thus strengthening a citizen-state relationship, but with all its elements, it is possible with an effective, quick, and fair judicial process. With these thoughts, he celebrates Lawyer's Day, celebrates the day of all our lawyers, all my dear colleagues, who have a great share in justice.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0013par0084	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've told you once or twice, that our farmers who want to water in Gaziantep, they can't do watery agriculture. Because electricity prices are high, energy prices are high. Kamil Vanlı from Akinyol village of İslahiye district says: "TEDAS has sealed the irrigation systems in Islam. They want 20 percent of the debt to open the seals. We don't have enough money to pay that 20 percent. For that reason, I'd like the government to take care of agriculture and agriculture, our farmers, help those who want to make water farms. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0015par0090	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister through you. So far, we've made double roads... and the double road between the bell-biga-chanakkale, which a AKP (AKP) who boasts of double roads for ten years is still unfinished. Rather than talking about other connections, I'm particularly curious to know when this path will be finished, when our citizens will be free of the suffering of this road there, and if there is another government in the Republic of Turkey, which they boast about in such a long time. Again, because of the rain that has been pouring down in our region recently, especially the Bajramic Dam, which is fed by the Kazdaks, is expressed by our local people, where the waters flowed to the Dam of Bajramic are murky and medicated, where these pharmaceuticals are derived from gold operators, and in this regard, the locals bottled up the samples as much as possible, and sent it to the governorship. In this regard, have the analysis of the Bayramic water been done, or have our people...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0017par0096	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0018par0098	Mr. President, because of AKP's policies in Balıkesir Bandirma, the bill of the crisis in Şıkesir Chick was paid to our brother, who earned his bread from this sector, who made his son read it, who tried to pay his rent from his house, the loan he took from the bank. About 1,800 workers were laid off at Sugar Chicken, which was turned over to the trustee because of its bankruptcy delay. What happened at Candy Chick, one of the locomotive companies of Bandirma and Balıkesir's economy, has created a major victim in the county. We have these... the voices of the Candy Chick workers, who have found about 5,000 people with their families, are unfortunately ignored by the AKP government. These people, they're out of work. As soon as he was unemployed, he was forced to wait only for anonymous reports and severance pay. No one takes into account what people who take out a bank loan to buy a house on account of their salary will do in this case. We've been yelling at the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance over and over and over from this parliamentary bench, but unfortunately, let the AKP government do it.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0017par0100	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. To the great Turkish nation, who could see today from yesterday, the leader of Turkish nationalism and the Turkish world, the statesman, dedicated to the Turkish nation, the Grand Alparslan Turkeşi in the 16th year of his death, we remember with mercy, gratitude and gratitude. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0017par0104	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 16th anniversary of the eternal arrival of the late Alparslan Turkesh, the great state and political man raised by the Turkish nation. On this occasion, we remember the deceased once again with mercy. May the Lord of the Universe make His dwelling place a haven. We also congratulate all our lawyers on tomorrow's April 5th Lawyer's Day, and wish them all the best in their study. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0021par0110	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0022par0112	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to bring up the matter of savings. Today -- I just said -- we had tens of thousands of citizens at the tomb of our Basbug, Mr. Turkesh. Unfortunately, there was no ambulance at the site of this ceremony. A brother of ours who was ill... unfortunately, there was no ambulance, he was called in. Mr. Bahattin Sugar called an ambulance, but he didn't show up for 20 minutes, but he had to be taken in a taxi. On a day like this, I'd like to point out that the Minister of Health didn't even consider having an ambulance there. We also have recently witnessed the release of the declaration of the Republic of Turkey in public institutions. How could this happen? This is the state of the Republic of Turkey. It's being removed from the Agriculture Bank, and the Ministry of Health has been removed from the Republic of Turkey. What's this? Is there a campaign, an attack on our flag, our republic? What's the reason for these things being removed from some signs? The government must inform you that this is the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0023par0115	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0024par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, one of the biggest problems in our country today is the subcontractor problem. In particular, the District Directorate of the 8th Highways in Elazığ has handed over all workers working on the highways to subcontractors, and the work guarantees of these workers have been taken from them. The government has already informed us here. Although it is also the decision of the judiciary, even though these subcontractors are doing public services, although they are doing a public service, I'm afraid we have nearly 800,000 people working at subcontract status in this way in this way. It's against the law to have the government take over and charge these subcontractors a humane living wage. Now that they're doing community service, they've seen that they need to work in the Highway Service, but they also provide subcontractors with a rate from the government's pouch to the subcontractors and channel the labor into the subcontractor's pocket. I strongly condemn that.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0023par0119	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0025par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. In a democratic society, a lawyer needs to be cleared of all kinds of pressures and restrictions. Whatever water is for fish is freedom for lawyer. All obstacles to counsel's defence must be removed, and the defences must be broken. Bars are public defenders. The pillar of judgment is defense, lawyer is the foundation of justice. If justice is the basis of the state, then a lawyer is the basis of justice. I'm celebrating the Day of Lawyers on April 5th. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0026par0124	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0027par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, this document you see in my hand is an exile. The exiled person is Specialist Doctor Engin Deniz lion. The institution that sent him to exile is the Ministry of Health. The reason for his exile is that on October 29th he refused to report to police officers who tried to celebrate Republic Day and suffered minor injuries during the struggle by the police. This is a disgrace to the AKP government. This exile must be stopped immediately, and it must be withdrawn immediately. And as the Republican People's Party, I would like to stress in clear terms that we are not going to let this go. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0028par0129	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a motion for a retraction of the law proposal, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/238) I withdraw my original Law Proposal. 3/4/2013 The offer made by the Justice Commission has been returned. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The need for energy in Turkey is increasing day by day, depending on population, industrialisation, developing technologies and many socioeconomic factors. Oil, natural gas and geothermal resources, particularly coal and hydraulic resources in the production of electricity energy, are the primary sources of our country's energy. Turkey's energy demand for 244 billion kilowatts in 2012 is estimated to reach 293.1 billion kilowatts in 2015. In 2012, 74.2% of the demand for electricity energy was planned for thermals, 23.2% for hydraulics, 2.05 per cent for wind and 0.32 per cent for geothermal resources. It is clear how inevitable it is that Turkey prioritizes energy investments because of the growing need every year. However, due to the supply-to-energy demand in our country, the government is being hasty, giving priority to energy investments that overlook social life, natural balance, cultural assets, and endanger human life, attempts to build thermal plants in tourist areas, hydroelectric plants in national parks, and trying to implement nuclear plant projects that the world has abandoned. In our country, investments in energy production should be given priority to domestic and renewable energy sources and should be avoided from being dependent outside, while investments in building plants with externally dependent resources, which will work with natural gas and imported coal. In terms of energy policies, developments in the world, which serve the interests of the European Union and the United States, have also created disruptive, irregularizing influences in our country. The goal is to create a single market that is free of national and public rules and control, dependent on global capital, and everyone is included in this market. Turkey must not fall into the hands of these organisations in energy investments and become dependent on these organisations. To do that, it must implement human-oriented and new energy policies. Energy production requires that all relevant institutions and institutions contribute to the national energy strategy, not allow new license requests to build plants with externally dependent sources such as domestic and renewable energy sources, minimise external dependency, natural gas and imported coal. The use of advanced technologies in the construction of energy facilities and the development of domestic technological infrastructure in manufacturing, the rapid assessment of our geothermal potential, especially in the areas of industry, housing, agriculture and tourism, the integration of projects established in the field of hydraulic energy, the reintegration of energy investments, the public understanding of controls in energy investments, the speed of training to create active, efficient, efficient, and efficient awareness for the use of energy. While Turkey is boasted that it has entered among the top 10 countries in Europe in wind energy, it is controversial and sad to say that only 2.05 per cent of the government's demand for electricity energy in 2012 will be met by wind energy. Unfortunately, it is frightening that the planned electricity production rate from the thermal plant in Turkey is 74 per cent because the damage to thermal plants is now well-known to everyone. In addition, it has been agreed by the Council of Ministers on Article 07/05/2009 and on Article 31/05/1963 of Law 244 and on Article 3/05/2009 of the State Department of Foreign Affairs. In accordance with this protocol, Turkey will implement and/or further improve policies and measures laid down in protocol in accordance with national conditions, in order to encourage sustainable development while implementing the emissions and reduction commitments of carbon dioxide equivalents of greenhouse gases. The most important of the measures mentioned in the protocol is to explore, encourage, develop, and use new and renewable forms of energy, technologies that remove carbon dioxide, and eco-friendly advanced and innovative technologies. Turkey must give more weight to renewable technologies following its protocol. For these reasons, we respectfully offer and offer the opening and open of the Constitutional Charter of the 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey under Articles 104, and 105, in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, in order to implement the necessary measures for the implementation of energy policies, which are integrated with economic, industry, agriculture, environment, education, national security, transport policies. 13/02/2012 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 4) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İzmir]] 9) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 15) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the most important problems of our day, the informal economy poses a major threat in many sectors in Turkey and in Turkey and the world, the size of counterfeit, illegal goods markets is causing huge losses to consumers and the country's economy. Research on the "Criminal Economy's Bilanço of Turkey" in Turkey demonstrates crucial arguments, which are estimated to be at least $8 billion (8 quadrillion) due to illegal activities in Turkey. According to the Turkish Bilanço Report of the Criminal Economy (İSMMMO) of the İstanbul Free Accountant and Financial Advisors' Chamber (İSMMO), the turnover in 27 pens of illegal activities in Turkey is at least $8 billion -8 quadrillion -- and the net gain is $3 billion 250m. Unfortunately, Turkey suffers major damage due to the balance sheet created by the informal economy and the criminal economy, and tax loss in significant proportions. This study, which is important to Turkey's economy, highlighted the fact that the economy has been transformed into a black hole and is doing its part to prevent the criminal economy from taking people's lives on its property. According to the Turkish Report of the Crime Economy of ISMMO, prostitution, heroin, cannabis, human trafficking, illegal cigarettes, pirate books and DVD, organised crime, illegal tea, illegal meat, fuel, theft, pills and historical artifacts are the most popular areas of the criminal economy. The biggest turnover in these sectors is the prostitution industry, and the second is the heroin sector, and human trafficking is fourth. Prohibition tax and customs taxes make it attractive, such as alcohol, cigarettes, tea, and other goods large in the illegal trade market. According to the report, between 60 and 120 tonnes of heroin per year through Turkey, 43 million 500,000 cigarettes, 36,000 illegal drinks, 2,280,000 pounds of smuggled tea, 75 tonnes of smuggled meat, 7 million 652,000 litres of fuel, 40,000 mobile phones, 1.27,000 illegal drugs, 32,000 illegal artifacts. These figures prove to us the size of the counterfeit and illegal market in Turkey. This must be addressed with precision due to the loss of major employment in Turkey, due to tax losses, and will best carry out the role of all institutions on the subject. For this reason, prostitution, heroin, drug trafficking, human trafficking, illegal cigarettes, pirate books and DVDs, illegal tea, illegal meat, fuel, theft, drug trafficking, and historical art trafficking, and the best monitoring of the criminal sectors in Turkey, the best way to prevent trafficking in these sectors, must be put in the way of the criminal economy that harms our country by doing its best. In light of the brief summing of the information above, we would like to order the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105, and Article 105 of the Constitution, as required by Article 98, in order to prevent the criminal economy from taking the necessary measures that would harm our country as soon as possible. 13/02/2012 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 7) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 10) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As the law clearly states, the Economic and Social Council was created to establish a common opinion in the creation of economic and social policies, creating a permanent and permanent environment that will ensure social consensus and cooperation. Again, the Economic and Social Council won a constitutional status in the referendum on September 12, 2010. In democratic societies, similar institutions are established to ensure that all actors involved in economic life work together, co-ordination, and policies that affect social life are revealed with common intelligence. For example, France has the Economic, Social and Environment Council, the Social Economic Council in the Netherlands. A similar council was included in the EU, with the European Economic and Social Committee as an active body. The same basic logic lies behind all of this. Economic policies also affect social life, so actors of social life must have a say in each phase of these policies. Turkey has significant economic problems today. The income rate of the household's debt has reached unsustainable levels, interest rates have increased, inflation has reached double figures. Today, our country is dealing with a structural unemployment problem, as well as one of the world's five most profitable countries. An economic recession is expected all over the world in 2012. Under these conditions, the economic and social council needs contributions, solutions, constructive proposals, and a common mind. However, the government has not collected the Economic and Social Council for nearly thirty-six months, not able to enable the Council to work effectively, efficiently and strongly, but cannot run this platform that allows workers and entrepreneurs to produce positive policies. Therefore, in order to investigate the obstacles to the Council's work, to determine the measures that need to be taken, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Edirne]] 5) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] 10) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 11) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] 14) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 18) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 21) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday/4/2013 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. The proposals for the opening of a parliamentary investigation on the issues of over 9 million pensioners in Turkey have been proposed to co-operate in the General Assembly's 4/4/2013 Thursday-day merger, which is part of the 118th edition of the Turkish Parliament's agenda for General Assembly and Parliament Research. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to Mr. Idris Baluken of Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0029par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on the recommendation of our group. I salute your committee. Today's group proposal will focus on the problems of pensioners living in our country and the processes the Assembly will develop to address these problems. I'll try to fill you in on that. In particular, during the EC PARTI period, we bring pensions and pensioners' problems to this stand all the time, and we constantly observe that there is a state of reluctance, a state of insensitivity in the government, and since the problems are not resolved, we think it is important to guide the government or to determine the shortcomings of the government's work. So far, unfortunately, practical problems, especially in retirement in the grave, with regulations made during the EC PARTY, remain all-new. The AK PARTY government's overall approach to the problem of pensioners is to create artificial crises, to create perceptions that it solves these artificial crises during the election period, and thus as a target audience, try to achieve a political rant on pensioners as a voter mass. However, the problems of our pensioners continue to stand before the government, with all its urgency, with all its importance. Look, we think that even when we look at the problems that pensioners have today, the wages and the raises alone, we can have ideas that we can very easily come to terms with. In July 2012, a SEC pensioner's salary was $885, with an increase of 37 euros, as of January 2013, and the salary of a SEC pensioner increased to 922 euros; again, a BUG-KUR pensioner's salary is $717, the raise is only $20, and that's like 33 euros for an officer's pensioner's pension. I'd like to stress that these are really numbers that, let alone a victim of pensioners, have no meaning or meaning to satisfy the most basic vital need. Almost every house in Turkey now we know that either there's an unemployed student, or there's a pensioner, and unfortunately, these problems are increasing because of the heavy conditions of life every day. In studies conducted by trade unions, NGOs, the average hunger limit is around 1,200 euros in Turkey. So, what we call this hungry limit is a limit determined by minimum vital needs, and this number is set at $1,200. Again, there is a poverty limit set at $3,208. So, on the one hand, we think that their pensions are 700 liras, 800 liras, and the numbers of poverty and hunger limits, which are $1,200 on the other hand, are considered a problem, and how we can develop solutions to this problem is something that needs to be established. In particular, research conducted from last year to today, there is a reality that a family's cost of living has increased by at least 145 TL compared to the previous year. Dear lawmakers, we have over 9 million retired citizens in our country. Almost all of these retired citizens are struggling to survive in the face of problems, and we think it's important to know how important this proposal is and how essential it is to support it. In fact, there is a reality in our country today that the limits of my current pension are not at a level compared to any other country in the world. In fact, even in countries where the most severe economic crises, financial crises, pensions and acquisitions of pensions are unfortunately far beyond our country, far, far beyond our country. We think that while arrangements are being made for the living conditions of pensioners, at one time, there is a very important emergency, an urgent task, regarding the immunity of pensioners from all these health-related expenditures. So we have to arrange for medical allowance, drug contributions, study difference money, all of this to exempt pensioners. Again, there are serious obstacles to the unionisation of pensioners, and it stands before us as a major problem because it prevents an organised force from being exposed in dealing with the rights demand. You've brought a lot of laws about the union that protect the spirit of September 12th in the same way, but you haven't given our retired citizens the right to be unionists. We feel that a study must be done on this matter. Now, speaking of problems with pensioners, we also have problems with citizens who are waiting to retire. And they're actually on the agenda of the House, but even though they're here, I'd like to stress them as there's no serious will, no serious policy at the point of resolution so far. Two important groups are attracting attention here. First, the retirement age group. And the second one is the problems of those who are old and can't finish their bonus day. In fact, both groups visited almost all political parties in parliament. Law proposals from both the Republican People's Party and MPs from the National Movement Party on this matter have been offered, although there have been studies related to the Parliament, and there have not been any harm done to this issue. Now, as far as we're concerned with the press, there's a work by the Ministry that's started on people who are this age. This study is important, but we don't know the details. Therefore, it is especially important for our citizens to be informed of the details of the ministry's work on the activities of this age, as well as that of political parties who are having problems. The other group, who had reached their retirement age, but failed to complete the bonus day, we had already submitted our own proposal, and let's do it again. We had both the proposals for the law and the motions for research and questions, we had talks with the Minister, and the Minister said that he had instructed his bureaucrats on the matter, and we're curious as to how far this is going. Our proposal is that for those of us who have reached an age, but who have lost their premiums, for those between the ages of 50 and 55, three years gradually, and for those who are 55 and older, a five-year debt is gradually granted and a right to retire. Again, in terms of our tradesmen, a study that was not from BUG-KUR, before 2000, but is registered in tax offices is important for the removal of the victims of our tradesmen. It is vital that the taxpayers register tax records from tax offices before 2000 and report it to the Social Security Agency and begin a study on the removal of their suffering. So, basically, the retirement group, the group that had reached this age and failed to complete its bonus day, has paid its taxes before 2000, but a study on resolving the victims of our unregistered trades in BUG-KUR, in our view of the coming term, could expose significant gains at the point of resolving pensioners' problems. So, we've brought our group proposal today. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that we expect support from all political parties, especially the ruling party.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0030par0350	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Reshad Right. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0031par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the BDP Group's motion to investigate pensioners. I salute the High Council. Although, speaking against you, there's no such thing as talking against pensioners. Of course, I'll speak in a different way, Mr. Lawmakers. On 4 April 1997, I'd like to start by remembering our late Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkesh. Our late Prime Minister Alparslan Türkesh is a very valuable statesman who has served a great service to Turkish nationalism, to Turkish youth, and who has worked hard for the growth of Turkish youth. Once again, his ideals, his beautiful words, his words, his words, have come to light, how true they are now. What he said about the Turkish world, especially in the Turkish world, is still ringing in our ears, and the Turkish world is now reminiscent of the late Basbug on the anniversary of his death. We're trying to make it a paradise. I want to use his expression that his ideas will never die and that the world will live as long as it stops. Congressmans, when it comes to pensioners, our pensioners are in our country, unfortunately, a lot of victims. Retired people, I almost wonder how I'm going to get my bread, how I'm going to make a living, how I'm going to get out of the poverty line, how I'm going to fight it. In fact, the retired people we know very well, I wonder if I could buy my grandson a chocolate bar, or how I could provide the smallest need of my house, the fear of it and the thought of it. In recent years, pensioners have been permanently losing. For retired people, of course, even though each political party was in their own way, the Justice and Development Party had said some very important things since 2002. As for the pensioners of the Justice and Development Party, here we will take out the Intigation Act. In the past, we will eliminate the difference between those who have retired before and those who have later retired. We will raise and correct the living standards of our retired people. Unfortunately, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have always said that, despite the fact that they've said it during every election period, unfortunately, it's interesting, it's obvious that what's done isn't so much. Currently, BUG-KUR pensioner, retired pensioner or SEC pensioner is suffering a great deal. When we look at the salaries they received, we live in a time period where the BUG-KUR pensioner was given $570, the SEC pensioner -- around 700 lira -- the lowest salary -- 840 lira per pensioner. Of course, as a result of various studies, we also have to think about how low the salary, the salary they receive, and what these people would do, given that the limit of hunger is now at $1,250 per month. At this point, our retired brothers and sisters must be considered, and in addition to supporting such proposals, they must be corrected by various laws. Inflation is falling, our people's buying power is rising, our people's living conditions are improving. We do say that, but the lawmakers are not like that for pensioners, for shopkeepers, for workers, for farmers. Unfortunately, when we're looking at our people's social layers right now, you'll see that they're all suffering from major complaints and they're having trouble making a living, and unfortunately, pensioners are at the top of it. Our pensioners, these people, of course, are already over a certain age, as well as living problems. Even if they're not all about every month, they go to hospitals within very short periods of time at work. And when they go to hospitals, they get their contribution, their drug contributions, their health contributions. And that's not human. Look, the money we give these people isn't enough. We have to think about what their situation is when they try to pay their contribution, their health benefits, as well as the money they've taken. The Ministry of Health and Social Security should certainly do a study in this way, so it is imperative that those contributions, health contributions, drug contributions, at least for retired people, people with green cards, people who are poor and poor, people who have income under the age of hunger, must be considered and removed. We've been saying this for a long time. So it's clear how important the Intibak Law is, especially when it's compared to the wages taken by workers from 2000 years ago and the salaries taken by those of our retired workers. But besides the Initiative Act, especially these health contributions must be brought up and removed once again by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and by the Ministry of Health. Go ask our retired people, which ones of the retired people will tell you that their salary is enough? But interestingly enough, we don't hear them screaming. Right now, in our Turkey, we have over 9 million retired people, so 9 million retired people are probably going to pass a political party course, isn't that over 10 percent of the current dam? I mean, when are we going to hear the cries and voices of these people who are going to cross even 10 percent dams? Look, at work right now, can an officer who's thinking about retiring be retired? It doesn't work because there's a huge gap between the salary he gets when he wants to be or when he does, and the salary he retires from. So they're afraid of retiring. Among these, at first in health, our physicians are coming. See, right now, health workers and especially our fellow physicians, our friends, are struggling not to retire, and even until they are 60 years old, they're trying to use it all to the right that the law gives them until they're 65 years old. But, come on, let's at least start with social layers, let's count the return revenues given to our physicians and healthcare workers to retirement, not to the past, but to the future, but to the very near, and from now on, let's count that. Our fellow physicians, whom we know so well, retire to their homes, and then we see them coming back to work because they were having trouble making a living. Of course, is this different from the rest of the health pensions? No. At many institutions right now, unfortunately, it's interesting that people are afraid of retiring. Therefore, pension proposals must be evaluated as well as amended with new laws. Here's the index for inflation. There's an increase in inflation, but 20 plus 20 liras, 40 liras, which will solve the problem? It doesn't solve any of their problems, but besides, our pensioners are screaming again. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, look, it's the 21st century, and we all know how important NGOs are and how NGOs protect people's rights. So, let's give union rights to our officers, our retired people, and they get their union rights, and they can sit comfortably in front of the Social Security Agency, and they can defend their rights, and they can know what the value of the money they're being given is, or what the money they're supposed to be getting right now, and they can defend their rights in the same way. But interestingly, the Justice and Development Party doesn't hear the sound of any social layer, and they don't hear the sound of our retired people here. But our pensioners, I believe, in the coming election season, at the nearest election season, will certainly give a lesson against this power that doesn't hear its own voices and is cruel to them. Because those people are fighting for their lives, they've worked for the government for 30 years, 40 years, they've given the government all kinds of support, they've protected it, they've served it. This government's salary in exchange for it is very upsetting to them, and it's causing them a lot of resentment. Congressmans, of course, have recently been sent payment under various names by the Ministry of Social Security, especially to BUG-KUR employees and SEC employees -- I mean pensioners -- in later times. And these fines are in a position that can't be paid, and people who are barely making a living, I mean, they can't make a living, they can't run a shop, and when you send a plus charge to this person, how are these people going to pay for them? Look, right now, our tradesmen, our retired tradesmen from BUG-KUR, under difficult circumstances, have a small shop trying to run it. As the National Party of Action, let us at times protect these small tradesmen that we bring to the agenda. Let's make sure we get the supermarket law out and let the little shopkeeper take a breather. Despite what we have said, it is interesting that we have not been able to warn the Ministry of Commerce and especially the Government, and there has not been the slightest improvement in this direction. So, come on, let's protect our pensioners and protect our tradesmen. Let's do studies on how social layers -- how their livelihood will be better. So, by darkening the agenda, by taking the agenda in different directions, he says that we shouldn't put aside the problems of the people, especially the workers, the farmer, the officer, the pensioner, the social layer, this motion, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0032par0370	Thank you, Mr. Right. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group proposal, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0033par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received word from the esteemed lawmakers that the Peace and Democracy Party has made a motion regarding the problems of the pensioner. Before I begin, I salute you all. We're talking about pensioners' problems, we're talking about, like, 10 million people. We're talking about the problems of pensioners who worked for this country for years, paid premiums, averaged for 20 to 20 years, each with 9.5-10 million people who worked for five years, but given how sensitive the ruling party AKP is to these problems and how interested they are. In a motion for the problems of pensioners, a ruling party with 300-odd MPs, I think we can see clearly from the Parliament composition here how much they take this motion seriously, how much they listen, so how much they care about pensioners' problems. Now, of course, pensioners have a lot of problems, but the most prominent of these problems is the government itself, which is responsible for the problems involved in the fee and the price policy in the first degree. Because in Turkey, wages are very important in the strategy of fighting poverty and poverty, and the public has the power to determine most of the wages. For example, the minimum wage is very common in Turkey -- unlike the Western countries -- for example, it determines the wages for civil servants, for example, for pensioners, for example, for public workers. So, if there's a problem with wages in Turkey, I'm thinking that the first-degree institution, where this problem is associated, is undoubtedly the government, where it's connected in the first degree. Therefore, one of the most important problems for pensioners is the government itself, which is responsible for the situation of pensioners today in the first degree. Now, there's a price policy in Turkey that we put in a target inflation, and we say that this is our target inflation. For example, for 2013, we set a 5% inflation target, and we set a price policy in line with this 5% inflation goal. We pay pensioners a fee in accordance with this inflation goal. We say: the first six months we give two and a half percent, the second six months we give two and a half percent. In Turkey, however, inflation is very clear and clear that its goals do not hold. In 2006, we applied to the inflation targeting system, or rather that system. Since 2006, Turkey has been implementing inflation policy under its inflation-seeking regime for nearly seven years, implementing monetary policy, but Turkey has failed to achieve inflation in any of these seven years. It's only held inflation targets for two years, but in these two years, the targets have been revised. Some years, the deviation in goals is over 100 percent. Now, in a conjunctural like this, it's not right to set a price for inflation and pay pensioners according to target inflation. Besides, even if you've determined the price policy by target inflation, even if you've achieved inflation, you're not giving people a share of real growth, because the economy is growing real. Although there is no Turkish miracle in growth -- I tried to explain it here on the parliamentary platform yesterday and the day before -- the historical growth average of Turkey's economy is 5%. During the AKP administrations, only 5% grew. Therefore, there is no miracle. But there is a Turkey that grows as much as its potential, as its historical average. Even if we agree to that, this 5% growth must be somehow reflected in the wages in Turkey. So it's not going to be enough to pay people just as much as inflation, to pay pensioners just as much as inflation, to improve the status of pensioners, even if the target is in inflation, because the economy grew really at the time, and it's going to have to give them a share of real growth. So, here, we need a healthier wage policy. This price policy is to consider the overall level of prices, and to think about real growth in the economy, especially in the lower part, to think about a price policy that will increase the prices of the masses in the lower level as much as real growth, inflation, and beyond that. Now, when we look at the 2013 inflation target, in 2013 -- just yesterday inflation figures were announced -- it seems impossible to achieve inflation target today. See, our 2012 inflation goal was five percent, and inflation was 6.1%. Now, 5 per cent inflation, 6.1 per cent in the first place, may not seem to matter very much, so it's a pointer; 1.1 point or 1.2 points of inflation may not seem to matter, or it may not matter, but your deviation of 1.1 per cent would mean 25 per cent. Besides, the domestic demand collapsed in 2012, dear friends, negative. So if we can't achieve inflation in a place where domestic demand is negative, then it's impossible for us to achieve this inflation target in 2013, when we assume that domestic demand is alive. Because inflation ultimately represents an imbalance between the total supply and the total demand, which is in favour of the total demand. You have three apples, three suitors, the price of the apple stays at a reasonable level, but if your apple is three, and four people demand it, the apple is worth it. Therefore, if demand is greater than supply, you cannot meet inflation targets. Now, we're dealing with a domestic request that collapsed in 2012. The negativity of domestic demand is very rare in Turkey, but can be seen only in times of crisis. So, if we can't achieve inflation targets in a place where domestic demand is negative, then... you're making an assumption that domestic demand will be revived in 2013. How can we say we're going to achieve inflation based on such an assumption? We need to tell him right now that this can't happen. See, our inflation target is 5 percent, our March inflation is 7.3 percent. We went above and beyond the end of the year. So inflation won't hold the target, it's very clear and clear. Where inflation does not hold its target, observing inflation targets, considering this, setting a price for target inflation is clearly, especially underinflation, for people with narrow incomes. Even if we shut it down -- inflation, target inflation -- and we've done it with a number of measures that we've taken in public finance, it still means that we don't benefit pensions from real growth based on pensions or target inflation. It means we don't increase their status, their position in the economy, their position in society, we don't strengthen or protect them. So, I propose here: if the government cares about the problems of the masses that have reached 10 million, if they care about the problems of the pensioners, please change the price policy, not just for the pensioners, but for the minimum wage, as for the civil servants, as for the public workers. I think there's a need for the masses in sub-income groups to set up a fee policy that will benefit from inflation plus real growth, which will benefit from the real growth of the economy. As long as we don't do this, we're not getting anywhere. Look, we may have to worry about raising prices, but what about our public finances? Is there enough opportunity in the public finance, in the budget? See, we're predicting 4 percent growth in 2013, almost zero growth. When we purged the last quarter numbers of calendars and seasonal effects, zero -- the Turkish economy -- has stopped growing since the last quarter, growth has stopped. We need to revive the domestic demand. What do you have to do to stimulate domestic demand? There are two conditions: either you're going to increase wages by income policy, you're going to turn to demand because people's wages are increasing, you're going to buy goods and services or you're going to change your credit policy. However, we say that our credit expansion volume is only 15 percent. There will be no more than 15 per cent credit expansion. Our income policy is based on target inflation, and there's no change here. We're going to increase people's wages according to target inflation, so how are we going to do 4% growth? So, I think we have a really unpleasant conjunctive that won't hold up the goal of inflation, as well as the goal of growth. With these warnings, I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0034par0387	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. The last word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Kayseri MP Ahmet Orphankaya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0035par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge against the BDP Group's proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. In the BDP group proposal, he mentioned that you had problems with our pensioners. Since 2002, we've been talking about social government understanding that we've never had our pensioners and employees crushed by inflation. We've always talked about it with data. Of course, Mr. Yellow also mentioned that we were unable to meet our goals in inflation. It's been years since 2002 when we looked at inflation data, even in double digits, or even three figures.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0036par0395	We haven't been able to make it for seven years, seven years. We haven't had one in seven years.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0035par0396	But thanks to our stable, stable policies since 2002, we've reduced our inflation to one-digit figures. Thus, Turkey has gained a new stability, and it is continuing on that stability.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0037par0397	About not being able to.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0035par0398	I, Alparslan Turkesh, who has worked in Turkish politics for many years before I begin my words, also welcome from here on the anniversary of his death. We had about 6 million retired citizens in Turkey in 2002. When it comes to 2013, we see that 10,400,000 of our citizens are retired. We're paying pensions to 10,400,000 citizens. So, since we don't have enough resources in our budget, since the Social Security Agency doesn't have enough resources, we'll be able to transfer about 74 billion from our budget to the Social Security Agency in 2013. Thus, the Social Security Agency is unable to pay the salaries of pensioners who were retired early due to the wrong policies imposed by governments before us. Now, when we look at the average age, we see that our citizens retire at 44, so we're paying our average 44-year-old retired citizens. The main thing here is to transfer pensions from employees to retired citizens as pensions, but in Turkey, we see that it is extremely low. So we have to transfer funds to pensions from government budgets, state budgets to social security institutions. Dear friends, our government's income in our laws has increased its monthly rate of increase, protecting our pensions in the face of inflation and providing serious increases in their income. The real increase in pensions from 2002 to 2012 was 41 per cent for pensioners, 51 per cent for pensioners, 96 per cent for pensioners, 96 per cent for pensioners, 231 per cent for pensioners, and 17 per cent for pensioners. As part of the special laws of Social Security, duty and war disability, martyr relatives, veterans and village rangers are also paid monthly by the Social Security Agency. As of the end of 2011, a total of 105 thousand people were paid a monthly payment of 635 million 859, 101 Turkish liras, while 55,037 people were paid 70 million and 63,422 euros as an additional payment. As of late September 2012, the special law paid $55,560 to 522 million, 614, 589 euros per month, while an additional payment was paid to 51,328 people for the same period. 71,888,772 euros. Two separate general managers have been established under the name of the General Directorate of Retirement Services, as well as the General Directorate of the Insurance Prims, in order to ensure that pension services are more efficient and more efficient in a controlled and coordinated structure with social insurance premiums transactions. The study of the initiative that our pensioners have been waiting for for for years has been completed, and in 2013, they have started paying for the initiative. According to Law 506, the rights of the insurance holders who had already demanded disability and old age allowance before 2000 and those who had passed away prior to that date have been recalculated to the rights of 2,73,000 people who died after 2000 from those who had been under disability or old age pensions. As part of the same arrangement, from April 1, 2002 to June 30, 2002, the pensions of 12,000 pensioners were reassessed by 8.9 per cent over the same income digits, while the processing of 2 million files was completed as part of the upgrade work. My dear fellow lawmakers, this has been mentioned many times in 2002 and in 2012, 2013. I will give you percentages by comparing the months to 2002 and 2012 in a way that will explain our explanation: The workers receive 257 TL in the July-December 2002 period, and 886 Turkish liras are monthly when we look at the July-December 2012 period.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0038par0406	How much does the congressman charge? He's human, he's human, isn't he?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0035par0407	It happened at 245 per cent of the time as a nominal increase. And when we look at the real increase, it looks like 41%. Workers in agriculture receive 216 lira in July-December 2002 and 799 lira pensions in July-December 2012. When you look at the nominal increase, you look at a 270 percent real increase, and you see a 51 percent increase. Again, employees of their own name and account -- those who receive pensions with what we call BUG-KUR -- receive a pension of 149 lira in 2002, when we look at July-December 2012, they receive 718 lira, minimum monthly pay. When we look at the increase here, we see 382%. Its real growth is 96 percent. Again, those of their own employees, workers of agriculture as BUG-KUR, receive 66 lira monthly in the July-December 2002 period, and 536 lira monthly in the July-December 2012 period. And when we look at the increase in this, we see a 712 percent increase in nominal growth. We see a 231 percent increase in real growth. When we look at public officials, we have a public official who received a 377 lira pension during July-December 2002, and a public official who received $1,084 during the July-December 2012 period, and at the lowest, a pensioner's salary. We're seeing an increase of 187 percent as a nominal increase. Very valuable lawmakers, indeed, with Turkey's stabilisation, all parts of society have been comfortable both in terms of income and democratisation. Hopefully, we'll continue our work. I'm just saying, as long as society is stable, as long as economic growth continues, it'll be fair to share. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0039par0416	Thank you, Mr. Orphanage. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0040par0418	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit02spe0039par0419	Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0039par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 04/04/2013 (now) on Thursday (now), since there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On January 11, 2012, 2092 points and 16 April 2012, we gave 4435 points to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it was suggested that our parliamentary research proposals for our citizens who are producing bees and producing honey should be held today (January 4/04/2013) by reading the General Assembly on Thursday (now). The first word in favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal is Mr. Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0041par0019	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion to investigate. I hereby salute your high council. Today is the 16th anniversary of the death of Basbug Alparslan Türkesh. On this occasion, I ask the late Archbug for mercy from the great God. Of course, beekeeping is a very important part of the agricultural sector in Turkey. Our country is ranked second in the world as a bee hive, and is ranked fourth in the world in terms of honey production. 54.574 families are beekeepers with 5,785000 bee hives. It ranks first in the country's production of honey and its shell casings. In 334 villages in our province, 5,800 families are beekeepers with 950,000 bees. Friends, spring has come, bees have flown, but the beekeepers are miserable. The government supports the beekeepers for $7 per hive - Ministry of Agriculture. Traveller beekeepers in our area must carry their bees at least five or six times a year. If we calculate that 300-400 hives can be loaded into a truck, this support can barely afford to let our beekeepers move from one place to another in the season. Poor wretch... if you give the yacht owners at least some of the fuel support you've given the ship's owners some of our beekeepers who are spreading around their heads, maybe they'll do it a little more comfortable. Now, of course, for our beekeepers, especially our beekeepers, one of the most important things is to get a transplant certificate, keep their bees healthy, and take their bees to seasonal areas. Now, this year, the Department of Agriculture has launched a new practice. How many places will you travel this year to our beekeepers who have applied for a transfer certificate? Now, my friends, our beekeepers' choice of places is of course possible in everyone's head; they have a plan, a schedule, but the weather, the conditions of spring, the weather, the weather, the cold temperatures, the date of transport of bees, and the places where they will transport bees are variable. In this regard, the barriers to beekeepers need to be eliminated. As of this season, one of the most important problems our beekeepers have is bee deaths and bee disease. In this season, mass bee deaths are the most important challenge because this season is also a period of healing in the garden because of the spring. Poisonous medicines used in vineyards and gardens cause the bees to die. Unfortunately, there is a serious lack of consciousness, a lack of planning in our country. However, these areas of toxic medicine -- that is, a certain region -- where the beekeepers are located, where the orchards are being fumigated in one day, if the agricultural director's office is announced to the beekeepers that day, if the beekeepers don't release their bees that day, the issue can be solved, but unfortunately, there is not enough planning to prevent bee deaths. The basic honeycomb is very important to beekeepers. It is very important to ensure sterilisation of this basic plant production, to prevent and prevent bee disease from spreading. If the petechial sterilization isn't sufficient, I'm afraid the bees are infected. Our region, of course, is a very important place in the world for the production of pine honey -- Mughla -- not just in Turkey. For this to happen, the forests need to be planned and planned to support our beekeepers, to prevent beekeeping. In the forests, sometimes for the sake of production, there are a lot of unplanned, unscheduled cuts, which prevent our beekeepers from producing honey because more bees are concentrated in areas that are not cut because of the cutoffs. Another important thing for our beekeepers is to increase domestic bee accommodation. The Ministry of Forestry will take other measures, such as fire and so on. He is causing trouble to stay with our beekeepers. And in that regard, surely the Ministry of Forest must take measures to protect our beekeepers. Now, one of the most important issues of our beekeepers is the sweets made by marshmallows, which have nothing to do with our beekeepers, but are called fake honey. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism does not have enough control over this and does not fight this fake honey enough. Again, Chinese honey, which comes cheaply to our country, is a negativity for the competition of beekeepers in our country. Pine honey is a unique product of our country and especially the Mugla. As the pine honey codex is being created, we need a standard that will cover our entire province, because we've been especially informed by the Mugla Bee Growers Association that the ingredients in the honey produced in every area are different. In this regard, we need to set a standard that will cover the whole of Mughla, because 1/4 of the honey production in our country is pine honey, and this pine honey is produced entirely in Mugla. This meaning requires special protection. The developing technology, of course, affects beekeeping, and also the production of honey and other bee products. The training of beekeepers is very important in this context. Unfortunately, there is now one beekeeping research institute in Turkey, which is also in our military province. Mughla is also important in both the production of pine honey and beekeeping. A beekeepers' awareness, positive contributions to beekeeping, agriculture and other parts of agriculture should be established by the University of Mugla Sıtki Kocman to provide a beekeeping research institute for the protection of the pine forests, especially the protection and spread of the basra beetle, which is an important place in the creation of pine honey. Now, in many developed countries around the world, beekeepers have been encouraged to put a bee next to a vineyard, while the garden owners have provided them with a number of help, while bees have contributed to the production of other vegetables and fruit in our country, and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism does not do sufficient measures, unfortunately. However, it is important to ensure that many vegetables and fruit products will be used for hormones, and that the plants of vegetables and fruit there, of course, are fertilized with bees, both in public health and in fruit efficiency. This is a beekeeping research institute that we want to establish at the University of Muğla Sıtký Koçman, and the University of Muğla Sitkı Koçman actually has enough infrastructure. Mugla Sıtký Koçman University also owns a really advanced food lab. In this regard, we believe that the training of our beekeepers in Mughla will have a positive effect on the development of beekeepers, beekeeping, especially on the preservation of pine honey forests. Here again, of course, one issue is consumer consciousness, the consciousness of manufacturers alone does not make sense. I believe the research institute here will bring together producers, consumers and scientists and will certainly contribute to the production of honey in our local area and the conscious consumption of honey, and public awareness of fighting fake honey. Now, of course, the production season has begun. I wish this season to be a good production season for our beekeepers, to spend a year in abundance, in abundance, in plenty, in profit, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0042par0036	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. The first word against the National Movement Group's proposal is from Mr. Yunus Kılıç, MP of Kars. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0043par0040	Mr. President, respected lawmakers, yes, beekeeping is one of the main interests of farmers and agricultural workers in Turkey. In terms of beekeeping, to be proud, Turkey is a country with a number of bee hives in the world, which is number two, which is fourth in terms of honey production. So we think there's an area that needs to be focused on, supported. Of course, we need to rephrase that beekeepers have serious problems from the past in Turkey, and we're starting to give the fight about them quickly during the AK PARTY, but there are things to be done. What are the beekeepers' biggest problems? First of all, beekeepers have a problem organizing. What did the AK PARTY do about it? In particular, to encourage beekeeping, organised beekeeping, he began to give beekeeping support to those involved, to those who took beekeeping, to those who did so, per hive, and he continues to do so today. One of the serious problems of beekeeping is, yes, migrating beekeeping. Because nomadic beekeeping also creates a space for wild use, and where it goes, sir, it causes serious problems, causing disease to move, so it also prevents a controlled beekeeping process. Therefore, during the AK PARTI period, the Department of Agriculture has issued regulations to ensure that this nomadic beekeeping is also under control, which means that by doing more regular, more controlled beekeeping, beekeeping, especially at the point of preventing bee disease stemming from bee disease, migrating beekeeping. Yes, pesticides, pesticides, especially when used unconsciously, not only for beekeeping, but also for the damage they do to the environment for animalry, plant health and human health. Friends, I would especially like to point out that after the AK PARTY, the proportion of these drugs used for pesticides in Turkey has decreased by about 75 percent. This is a very important development. Does it need to be more under control? Yes, I'd like to make it clear that it needs to be further under control. One of Turkey's problems, of course, is in beekeeping: Yes, our honey production is in the fourth place in the world, and our hive number is in the second place. But our honey production per hive is still not at the desired rate. One of the most important reasons is that beekeeping is still primitive in Turkey, but in modern hives -- look, the amount of honey per hive in the world is up to 30 kilograms [30 kg], and it's still about 165 or 17 kilos in our country. But with the AK PARTY, friends, the use of these primitive shells has become almost completely abandoned. It's now reached 6 million... and I'd like to point out that our modern shell count, which is 4 million in 2002, has increased to 6 million in 2012, and our honey production has increased from 75,000 tons to 95 thousand tons, but still our honey production per hive has not reached the desired levels. We know it's because beekeepers don't get enough of this knowledge, lack of knowledge, lack of organization, and every institution is trying to do its part. What's going on? Through the Agricultural and Rural Development Agency, serious support is being offered to those who are particularly interested in beekeeping projects, and by the way, the people who receive these supports are also trying to be organized beekeeping by registering members of these troops. EU funds are currently under serious support for beekeepers to benefit from agricultural rural development funds from the Ministry of Agriculture itself, from EU funds owned by regional agencies. By means of the Agriculture Bank -- $8 per case -- are currently being supported by beekeepers. But to whom? These supports are given to organized beekeepers who have made their membership. Again, through the Agricultural Bank, the beekeeping enterprises receive interest-free loan support for up to 15,000 liras, friends. Now, of course, one of the most important concerns of beekeepers is the troubled struggle with fake honey in our country. Unfortunately, this is the best-cased example of beekeeping that we've had so far. In particular, those with such false initiatives after the Agricultural Ministry's impersonation and battery law are identified by the Ministry through controls from 40,000 to 400,000 a year, through audits, in exposure, and the most severe criminal transactions, gradually, after each time they've done it, and that's a serious deterrent. It has also been published, and the level of an amino acid called prolin, particularly one of the most important elements in preventing counterfeiting in this Honey Proclamation, has been increased from 100 to 300 milligrams in honey, friends. It's not something that can be added from the outside, and it's one of the instruments that we use most importantly to analyze between fake honey and real honey. He's taken it to a very important position. If you try to add this prolina to the honey you fake from the outside, we don't think anyone will take that kind of initiative because it's going to be out of your debt anyway. Also, one of the most important challenges in beekeeping -- yes, we know -- is the main bee production problem, my friends. Turkey's TEMA Foundation is producing bees in the town of Ardahan. At the same time in Posof, Antalya, Turkey Development Foundation is producing bees in Kazan. They are also supported in various ways -- friends -- in various ways around here. Now, of course, from 2002 to today, especially the beekeepers have been tried to be supported in every pen. What's done? For example, in 2002, only 200 manufacturers were supported by about 100,000 lira -- the recipients -- in 2012, the number was supported by 38,000 beekeepers -- who were also registered, organized, and formed troops -- in about 40 million lira years. It's supported by $8,000 per hive. Also, serious institutions have been established in almost all regions of agriculture, where beekeeping is intense, especially in the Mediterranean region, the Eastern Anatolian region, the Southeast Anatolian region, where they build labs, where they are both patented at the point of analysis of the honey, to prevent name rights and fake honey production. Yeah, doesn't beekeeping, beekeeping have problems? There is. What is it? There's a production problem, yes, there's a marketing problem, there's cost problems. If we can continue by standing behind these elements, I hope a few years later in beekeeping, Turkey will increase its production of honey per hive in the world, complete its modern hives around the world, and predict that at the point of honey production, it will run with China, and we hope and hope. We know that the Caucasus bee is particularly common in Turkey, and in order to ensure that this Caucasus bee is not affected by migrating beery, especially the friends of the Department of Agriculture have been creating gene centers in recent years, so that this nomadic bee race does not change negatively, it does not affect, it does not increase its production, it thinks that we need to increase its honey efficiency, the other aggressive, wild bee species to be determined as a gene center for the Caucasus race, and to prevent other bee races from being brought into these areas, and to ensure that we should be able to ensure that we don't be able to increase the production of our bee species, to ensure that we can increase its production, and to ensure that its production, together, to ensure that we need to ensure that other species of bees, to ensure that its species of bees, in order to be able to prevent other species of bees, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be affected, to be able to be able to be able to create, to create, to create, to create, to increase, to increase, to create, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to produce, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to create, to increase, to increase, to create, to produce, to produce, to produce, to ensure, to produce, to produce, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure that, as much more, to prevent, to ensure, to prevent, to prevent, to increase, to increase, to create, to create, to increase, to ensure that, to create, to create, to ensure, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to create, to create, to prevent, to create, to create, to create, to create, to create, to prevent, to create, to create, to create, to create, to ensure, to prevent, to prevent, to create, to prevent, to create, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to create, to create, to create, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to create, to prevent, to create, to create, to prevent, to create, to create, to create, to create,
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0044par0057	Thank you, Mr. Sword. In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Mersin MP Aytug Thrower. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0045par0061	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a pledge in favour of the motion to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the problems of our fellow beekeepers and honey-producing citizens and to address the problems. And I salute the lawmakers, who are really friends with the farmer, who are really friends with the manufacturer. Dear friends, before we get to the point, I'd like to talk about one or two minutes of today's importance, and this is about the Day of the Development of the Earth Mine. In fact, I made a press statement about it, and I wasn't planning to talk about it, but I'd like to take a few minutes to apologize to my beekeeper brothers when the AKP tries to create a perception that they want to clear the mines themselves, but as usual, the Republican People's Party prevents it. My dear friends, antipersonal landmines are unfortunately a disgrace to our geography and a sign of primitiveity, the instruments of death culture, or pain. If we're still talking about clearing mines in this day and age, it's a real shame. The AKP government is the greatest of all. Look, why is the biggest disgrace in the AKP government? Because in 2003, the AKP government signed the Ottawa Convention and made our state part of the contract in 2004. That was a good thing. Yes, from time to time, the AKP tries to do good, however rarely. That was one of the good things he did. We applauded that. However, during the past ten years -- it was signed in 2003, and it was 2013 -- it did not meet the terms of the agreement that the AKP had signed over the past ten years and that it had been called my honor. According to a 2010 study, about 1 million mines were found on our land, while only 25,000 were wiped out. We don't know where it's been cleaned. It's a place on the border with Syria. It's called. I think it's personal that you clean this place up so that it's probably easier to get in and out of Syria. My dear friends, we've been living in minefields for four generations, and mines take one person from us every three days, kills or dies, his arms and legs are severed, and we find that most of these deaths are civilian citizens and children. So what did the AKP government do when the world was trying to get rid of all this shame when we had no disagreement about clearing these mines? He also made the removal of these mines a front door, and he tried to use it to his advantage. What did he do? He made the most fertile, clean land of all the land of Israel pursue after him. For half a century, about half a century, he tried to abandon these lands to the use of Israel. Later, when he saw what Israel was doing in the settlements, he said, "We will not give up this land, not Israel." He said, "We will not give up this land, no matter who it is." He went to the Supreme Court. No, sir, the CHP wants the mines cleared, there's no obstacle. Bring TUBITAK, bring in all the scientific boards, all the technical institutions, all of us to clean these mines together, but to clean these mines, you really need consciousness, you really need heart, and you need a leg. Today, I lend my leg to the whole world. He started the campaign, and we support this campaign. I lend my leg to the AKP. You can't go with your own legs and clean these mines, so go with my leg. I give my leg to mine victims. I'm lending my leg to mine victims to share their pain. At the end of all this, I urge the government to act immediately to clear these filthy mines that have been laid to the ground. Look, in 1975, the National Assembly of that period made a decision, set up a research commission, and this research commission says: ▪ One, you will clean up the minefields. It guides the government. Two, you will give the landless villagers the areas that you have cleansed, he says, not Israel. Three, you're going to build state-producing farms here. Now, that's the idea of a social government. If you set out on a social-government basis, then you'll get somewhere. Otherwise, you'd be really embarrassed if you tried to make a run at people's deaths, and a lot of people would lose their lives. My dear friends, in my remaining time, I'd like to address the problems of our beekeepers, and I'd like to start with a very common statement that Einstein ▪ allegedly said. It says Einstein: If the bees disappear, the human species will be extinct. Yes, and thanks to you, the bees in Turkey are disappearing. Turkey has about 4.5 million honeybee colonies. 38,000 families live on beekeeping, and at least 10,000 of these families live on beekeeping alone. So about 40,000 people live on beekeeping alone, and beekeeping is a honey export product, so its economic value is very high. Now, do our bee manufacturers have any problems? I do. I'm the 4th MP who's ever been here, and I'm the 3rd MP. Every lawmaker who comes out has problems, he said. And the AKP MP came out, and he said, "Yeah, don't beekeepers have problems?" We'll soon see how the congressman votes to investigate the problems of these beekeepers. Is he going to say yes, or is he going to say no? The reapers have problems, but we cover them up, we don't investigate them, we don't solve them at all. Or is he going to say that this is an important problem, thousands of people are eating bread from here, come, let's investigate this place? Again, the same AKP MP said it had to be backed up. He said they gave him 8 lira per hive in a funny way. Dear friends, with the support of $8 per hive, it is possible for these beekeepers to live, and I give you that. If this is supported by at least 15 liras or around 20 liras, our beekeepers can breathe a little easier and survive. Now, again, one of the beekeeper's most important problems was mentioned by the congressman -- obviously the judge. So I called the beekeeping production units, and I found out about their recent problems. We see each other often, they say the same problems. It seems that the government is aware of these problems. Well, why don't you solve it, brother? He said: "The biggest problem of the bees is the bee transports, the migrating bees. " Yes, the beekeepers make full, at least 2,000 kilometers each year. They're taking the hives, trying to make a living somewhere. So, what do they do 2,000 kilometers with, what do they use? They use gasoline and diesel. Using the world's most expensive gas, they use the world's most expensive diesel to transport their bees from one place to another, and in the end, they get nothing, and they continue to work for throat food. Again, he mentioned the bees' diseases, Congressman. Yes, there are diseases, let's investigate; no, let's not investigate. He said, well, we've made a lot of regulations. Well, for God's sake, isn't there a law? Doesn't a matter this important deserve a law? You make laws about a lot of things, why don't you make laws about it? A problem that's been waiting for years. Even the Ottomans had a law on beekeeping. You know, those of you who looked up to the Ottomans, Ottomanism, tell him there was a law on beekeeping at that time. If he wants it so bad, let him bring it first, and let's get the beekeeping law out here together. Dear friends, beekeepers are doomed to die without support, just like bees. You, on the one hand, put the nuclear plant in Mersin's bosom, and dozens of thermal plants in Mersin's bosom, destroying the pine forests where bees collect honey, while destroying fruit producers, peach makers, and narcissist manufacturers, causing them to tear down their trees, and then you say, "Oh, Lord, how will beekeeping flourish?" It won't, brother, beekeeping won't improve. First you fix the environment, first you don't damage the environment, then you support the narcissists, support the fruit makers, then the beekeepers, the bees, the bees will breathe comfortably and support the beekeepers. Anything else you do is futile. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0046par0078	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Bünyamin Uzbek is against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Uzbek.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0047par0082	Thank you. Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the group proposal from the National Movement Party. On this occasion, I salute you. According to FAO beekeeping data, we are number two in the production of earth hives and honey after China. According to 2011 statistics, we have 6 million colonial assets, and we produce 94,245 tons of honey from these colonies. As a government, we are aware of our wealth, and in time, we have implemented different policies of support to evaluate it, to improve our beekeeping, and we continue to implement it. In order for our beekeeping to develop based on scientific foundations, beekeeping research institutes have been established, aimed at encouraging our producers to organise information and income levels. According to our government, the Council of Ministers for the development and support of agriculture and animalism is freely supported. In 2003, the beekeeping support, which began with 200 beekeepers, increased exponentially, and in 2012, 37,757 beekeepers were given free support for 5,32,592 hives for 40 million,260,736 euros. It is still being paid to the producers who are part of the centrally organized breeder units and producers at the level of beekeeping, to pay support per hives, to provide natural pollination in greenhouses, and to support growers who use the Bombus bee per colony to provide natural pollination. In addition, from 2004, the Agriculture Bank and its agricultural loan co-operatives also allow our producers to use agricultural loans with different rates of zero interest and interest reductions in different agricultural production. One of these production branches is beekeeping. Loaning, which began in 2006 with a 40 per cent discount, was increased to 57 per cent in 2008. In the beginning, only business loans were used, and starting in 2010, they were given for investment purposes. With the latest decision issued in 2013, our beekeepers will be able to use business and investment loans for up to 15,000 TL. Dear lawmakers, 53 projects providing employment for 526 people in beekeeping processing and packaging as part of the Rural Development Investment Support Program have been supported by $8,75,000. All of these supports have taken effect, and our hive number has been 4 million in 2002, and by the end of 2011, it has increased by 44 per cent to 6 million. Here's our valued congressman, the beekeeping, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone. When the bee is destroyed, humanity disappears. He said, but we see that in 2002, when it was 4 million, the hive reached 6 million in 2012, and I want to point out that. With support from the Bombus bee, the growing sector has begun to produce its own. Colonies produced by our companies, which operate on this subject, continue to be supported. Dear MPs, these supports reached 84,689 colonies in 8,841 businesses in 19 counties at the end of 2012. In 2005, 1,062 manufacturers received $83,000 for 4,150 colonies, while in 2012 the amount reached $5m for 84,689 colonies in 8.841 businesses. But as a government, our goal is not just to distribute money and raise the quantity of questionable products, but to increase the knowledge and awareness of our beekeepers and our industry-run industrialists, perhaps less, but to obtain quality bee products. Today, it has achieved reliable food production and sustainability that has become a common goal all over the world. Precious lawmakers are co-ordinating the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Animal Directorate, Food and Control General Directorate and Turkey's Bee Growers' Central Union on 28-29 March 2013 in Ankara, where they are co-ordinating measures for the resolution of the problems related to honey candle and basic netek, a major bee product in terms of value and use. The remnant problems caused by the use of mothballs and medicines by beekeepers will be quickly resolved by discussing problems caused by the introduction of paraffin and similar additives in basic petal businesses, which are used as basic honey candles, problems caused by the lack of sterilisation of basic petite and the import of the honey candle, which is allowed to be used in industry without permission. I'd also like to say that Bayburt has an important place in the production of honey. Particularly because the flower fluoride is very rich, it also brings the quality of honey. I also want to point out that we're in Bayburtt, where we're going to produce organic honey in honey production. Hopefully, by supporting the production of organic honey in Bayburt, we'll make an opening for both Turkey and the world in terms of organic honey. I'd like to say that we're very interested in beekeeping in our province, and we're very interested in the problems of beekeeping. There are over 26,000 hives in our province, one of the areas of our country that produce quality honey. I expect your support in promoting Bayburt honey, which has proven its quality nationwide. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0048par0095	Thank you. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday/4/2013 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 3/4/2013, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk and 26 MPs said to the Turkish Parliament of the Grand National Assembly, "Investigating the right to defend, lawyers, law enforcement, honour of the profession, attacks against the bar and the problems of the lawyers." The parliamentary research proposal (836 rows no. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of their talks Thursday (04/04/2013). The first word in favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0049par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to thank my fellow lawmakers from every party that calls me for a car accident, wishes me well, has their warm attention, support. My dear friends, I have made a commitment to the right of defence, the attorney, the profession, the honor of law, the appeal of our motion for the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in order to investigate the attacks on the professional organisation of lawyers, the attempts to intimidate, intimidate, intimidate, intimidate, and investigate the problems that lawyers face while they perform their duties. However, before we make another assessment of the agenda, right now, in Mersin Harbor, the actions of dock workers who have resisted for over two months because of the protest of their dismissal have been trying to be suppressed by pepper gas, police baton, and, ultimately, 20 workers since yesterday, yesterday at 14 p.m. He's been attempting suicide since 00, on the containers, unsubstantiated, unconvinced. I demand that these people's noses be solved without bleeding, instead of being interfered with by pepper spray, cop's baton. My dear friends, April 5th, Lawyer's Day will be celebrated tomorrow. Of course, we did research on the historical basis of this April 5, Lawyer's Day. In fact, there is no definitive data, but April 5, 1878 is the day of the first general assembly of the Istanbul Bar. Again, April 5, 1958 was the day when the heads of the bar were gathered to form the Turkish Bar Association in İzmir. Turkey's Bar Association has decided that the Day of Lawyers will be April 5th at its meeting in Tekirdağ, on June 15, 16th 1987. My dear friends, our lawyers, who are the founder of the trial process and the main element of the defence, this year are lawyers on April 5, Attorney's Day, attorney's office, attorney's honor, attorney's organization, lawyers's organization, for attacks against the bar, intimidations, intimidations and intimidation efforts, lawyers who have been made unable to perform their duties through courts, lawyers who have opened every door, lawyers and their homes are detained in the middle of the night, lawyers are being detained, lawyers, lawyers are being declared for their professional activities, lawyers are being harassed, lawyers are being subjected to a number of insufferable sizes, lawyers are being forced to increase their efforts by prosecutors, lawyers are being tried by the prosecutors on trial, and lawyers who have been tried by the prosecutors who opened every side of every side of every door, and lawyers who have been held in violation of the court. Lawyers celebrate this year's April 5th Day of Lawyers (April 5th) often when the heads of the court (JP), the lawyer, comes out. They celebrate during a period of reverberation of the courtrooms with their voices. (HPP applause) In this process, there will be only one thing left to remember: the chief of the court, who is tasked with implementing the law, will take out their lawyers. With their words, the courtrooms will be echoed. My dear friends, lawyers, celebrate a process of physical violence. Lawyers celebrate the Day of Lawyers on April 5th during a period in which they were seen as a formal element in the trial, where the defence was restricted, and they were thrown out. My dear friends, is it a good thing when lawyers are thirsty or silenced in a pending trial? It's good. Good for who, my dear friends? It's not good for people who are really looking for rights; it's good for judges and prosecutors who have a problem with lawyers and defences, and it's good for political authorities who have problems with lawyers and defences. Again, what happens when lawyers get thirsty? They can't do their duty. So, what happens if the lawyers are silenced? It would prevent him from doing his duties. What happens if lawyers are silenced by the head of the court, the representative of the defense, the founding element of the trial itself? The trial of the court will be prevented by the head of the court, my dear friends. Defense is really the key element of the judiciary, the founding element. It's not just because it's written in the law. That's because that's what this is really about, so the defense is because it's the basis of the trial. That's because it's accepted and implemented in the democratic state of law. Since the right to defend is a basic human right, the right to defend is necessary for everyone, even those who try to eliminate the defense, and those who ignore the lawyers. The right to defend is the essential element of judgment because it's sacred. The representatives of the independent defense are lawyers. So, when you don't put the defense at the center of the trial, the job is not called a trial, my dear friends, but a trial is not democratic, it's not fair. It is the backbone of an independent and impartial judicial state that respects defence on the stand, can't digest, can't digest, can't swallow vulnerable conviction decisions. The lawyer's primary duty is to try to influence the law, to influence the person who does the duty of justice, to ensure that fair trial and justice are carried out by influence of judgment and judicial duty. Therefore, it is an inadmissible crime to influence the person who serves as a lawyer in accordance with the law. Bars can be sued for doing what the law has given them. In fact, the İstanbul Bar Association can be prosecuted today for carrying out the duties imposed on the bar in Article 97 of the Law on Law. My dear friends, the process that we really live in today is a process that we need to think about a lot and the defense has become volatile. This is not a state of pride, it is a state of shame. Lawyers, lawyers, above all, must oppose any violation of human rights. That's the basic duty of lawyers and barmen. Then it is their duty, my dear friends, to stand up to the right of defense, no matter where, no matter how, no matter how, to stand up to it. I'd like to say to the lawyers, to the defense, to give a concrete example of this: My dear friends, there has been a court palace in Eagle. The courthouse on this Anatolian coast boasts that it is the largest courthouse in the world. That's a good thing, it's a courthouse, but there's no waiting rooms in this courthouse, the largest courthouse in the world, where lawyers can get what they need, folks. Look, all these documents I have are correspondence documents from the Justice Department and the Istanbul Bar. In these documents, the first 28 lawyers are reduced to the waiting room and the cafeteria to 16, and then it is reduced to 14, and when the Eagle Courthouse is actually opened, these lawyers' waiting rooms and cafeterias evaporate to zero, my dear friends. Lawyer's waiting room and cafeterias are being assigned as teapots. So, the waiting rooms are turning into a teapot. Now, my dear friends, we don't even have a three-foot unit where lawyers can get what they need. That means there's no room for defense. The location of the defense is after the judge and the prosecutor's teahouse. The question here is, is the location of the defense important or the teahouse of judges and prosecutors important? This is a concrete example of political power's indicator for defence and counsel to defend Turkish judicial organisation. There are no defences in the organisation of Turkish justice, there are no lawyers. The location of the defense comes later from the judge and prosecutor's teahouse. Where judges and prosecutors use teahouses, lawyers are also called hang your robes. This is indeed a proud place to build the Eagle Courthouse, thousands of square meters. My dear friends, we are lawyers, we are lawyers. We do not obey anyone, not even to the power. We do not bow to injustice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't extend our necks to the guillotine. We take our strength in justice and justice. Therefore, in terms of the solution to the problem of lawyers, I especially address my fellow lawyers in the AKP (AKP) -- a parliamentary research commission to investigate these problems, and let the problems be identified. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0050par0131	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Against the Republican People's Party proposal, Mr. Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0051par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment by the Republican People's Party Group to the agenda of the group proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Constitutional and Internal Charter provisions to investigate and identify the problems of lawyers and the profession of lawyers. On this occasion, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the beginning of my words, I celebrate the day of our colleagues, who, on the occasion of April 5th, are an important element of our judicial system and who represent independent defence, perform a sacred profession. I wish all my colleagues health, happiness and peace. Honorable lawmakers are independent justices of the state of law that are essential and essential. To ensure independence of the judiciary, a fair trial, and access to democratic community order, the defence must be increased in line with the function of its action, one of the founding elements of the judiciary. A fair trial requires the presence of independent and impartial judges as well as the presence of independent lawyers. Without defense, the trial cannot be a fair trial. As of today, lawyers and their profession have many problems. At the point of resolving these problems, there are major tasks for all of our colleagues, our barrooms, and the Bar Association, the upper body of the bar. In that sense, the new law on the agenda of our bar is an opportunity. I believe that in accordance with the development of the age and the profession, a law to meet the expectations of lawyers will contribute to the solution of many of our colleagues' problems. The Law of Law has been on the agenda of the bar and all our colleagues for years. Politically speaking, the AK PARTI government and the AK PARTY Group have repeatedly voiced that the proposal of this law, as participant democracy, is to be prepared by the Turkish Bar Association, which is the roof of lawyers and bars, but for whatever reason, the Association of Bars and Bars of Turkey has not been able to do or have not been able to work on it. If we as the AK PARTY Group had ignored democracy and the participatory democracy, based on our political majority, we could have passed this law without considering the trade organisation. However, I say we expect from the Supreme Assembly's grand bench to be presented to all the barrooms, especially the Association of Bars of Turkey, in accordance with the needs of the age, ahead of the professional issues of lawyers, to present to our Assembly by drafting a law on equal and fair representation of lawyers in the Bars and Bar Association, which is based on participation. Dear lawmakers have taken important democratic steps in the judiciary, as well as in every field, which has made the service and the people ahead of each field, making legal and physical infrastructures for our country's democratisation, freedom, despite all the pressures and constraints for democratisation and freedoms. In this sense, the constitutional amendment to the September 12, 2010 referendum allows our colleagues to represent both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. As of today, a colleague of our bar's choosing is a member of the Constitutional Court, and also a member of our colleagues on the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. It is an important development in the legal profession, both in a high court and in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Today's opposition parties have also shown their opposition to this amendment. Again, as you know, Law 6111, which was legalized in the 23rd term, has been given the opportunity for our paralegals to benefit from general health insurance. Again, when the same law opens the offices of our fellow lawyers, the obligation to open a business and obtain a work permit has been lifted. Again, as you know, it was possible for our colleagues to open law offices at the residences, with the 444 rows of proposals adopted by the Justice Commission last week, which are on the General Assembly agenda. My fellow lawmakers, the 10th article of the Constitution is equal to the law without distinction, with the exception of language, race, color, gender, political thought and so on. For years, Turkey has seen the days when certain segments have not been accountable for their privileges and cannot be judged. Those with certain adjectives, certain positions, certain ranks, unfortunately escaped the judiciary through the guardian system. Judgement has become a privilege for a certain people. Our beloved nation has not forgotten these days. This is the state of mind of the motion we discussed today. We clearly state that in the eyes of the law, everyone is equal. No matter his position, his position, his rank, if anyone's breaking the law, if he's involved in unlawful conduct, the legal state should be able to answer to justice. A contrary situation, a contrary thought, undermines the rule of law. This is true of lawyers and other professions. If a person commits illegal acts and considers himself unjudgmentable by his profession or position, it is not incompatible with the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I mentioned earlier, you are aware that the profession of lawyers and lawyers has many problems. We believe that this situation can be passed by a law that prioritizes the problems of the profession by our barrooms and the Association of Bars, which are in practice as part of the participating democracy, to begin with with the education of law in universities. Hopefully, as soon as the Turkish Bar Association leads, this bill will be drafted and legalized by coming to Parliament's agenda. We, the lawyers from within the practice, know all the problems our colleagues have, and we're making the necessary talks to resolve them, and we're going to follow them. Regarding the lack of bar room at the Eagle Courthouse, which has just been told by the Republican People's Party spokesman, the state's Attorney Generals, the Department of Justice, have made a place in accordance with the needs of the Bar Association. But, as I've just said, the mindset that rules the bar out of a professional organisation as if it were a political party, rather than meeting political will or relevant units, ignores them, knowing that they are both weak at the point of defending our colleagues' rights, as well as at the point where our colleagues should get their rights. We -- as a member of the bar -- we've seen that when we go to the courthouses that have been opened with our other friends, we've seen that our Justice Department officials have contacted the relevant bar president, and they've seen that they've solved the problem at the point where the bar needs to be. I've already told you, but we don't allow the Law of Lawyers to take power in this way. With an understanding that goes with the mentality, unfortunately, we haven't been able to solve the problem of lawyers so far, with a mentality that can't prioritize the problems of lawyers. I say again: I hope that an NGO, a professional organization that will be prepared under the leadership of the Bar Association, a law bill that the Bar Association will draft, will come to Parliament as soon as possible, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0052par0150	Thank you. Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0053par0152	Mr. President, I'd like to clarify something. Mr. Speaker, he told me that the waiting room at the Istanbul Eagle Courthouse has not been reserved... that he has left, so, indirectly, that I am not telling the truth...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0052par0153	Anyway, he didn't say he was leaving, but he said...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0054par0154	I didn't say you left.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0053par0155	The correspondence... I, the Ministry... I mean, sir...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0052par0156	Mr. Ozturk, I listened very carefully... I'll talk to you now, then I'll look. He said the Istanbul Bar Association didn't make these talks.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0053par0157	I'll tell you what he did... these documents are Department of Justice documents.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0052par0158	Here you go. So there's no word against yours.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0053par0161	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, our AKP spokesman, have gone far enough to say that the Istanbul Barroom has not been able to meet its demands because our friend has not pledged to the political power, and that he has not made the necessary talks. It's not true, it's not true. I don't think that's a good idea for a lawyer friend. These are documents written by the Department of Justice's Department of Technical Affairs, which I showed you, which I said at the end. That's them. In the first phase, there are 28 lawyer waiting rooms, cafeteria, attorney's office, meeting room, the first stage where three bar pens are being designed, so there are two waiting rooms per floor. Secondly, it's said this project has been dropped to 14 waiting rooms. First it's 28, then it's said to have been dropped. And it's all in the writing of the Department of Technical Affairs of the Department of Justice. I mean, at every stage, the Istanbul Bar Association is negotiating with them. At the end of the day, see how interested he was: write no. 80, which is the date 27/01/2005 to the Ministry of Justice. Again, the Justice Department's 11/05/2005 article, dated 2008, dated 2009. When did he send this? The last one he sent was in 2011. My dear friends, I mean, it's not right to come up here and correct the case, sir, not to correspond with the State of Istanbul, not to be given the necessary institutions. I don't see that in a lawyer friend of mine. I mean, he's been interviewed by the Justice Department at every stage, and the Justice Department says he gets projects every time. Finally, he said that the waiting rooms were reduced to 14, but they couldn't be raised, but when they were actually opened, they were seen to turn into teahouses, and then he wrote to the Istanbul Bar Department of Justice again. That's all there is to it. There were other lawyers there... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we had friends who defended the AKP idea. Lawyers aren't allowed a square meter. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0055par0170	Thank you. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, İzmir MP Oktay Vural. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0056par0177	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's right to defend, to lawyers, to the profession of attorney, to the honour of law, to the attacks against the bar and to the establishment of the parliamentary research commission in accordance with Constitution and Civil Charter provisions to investigate and identify the issues of lawyers. My respects to all of you. Dear MPs, today, I've expressed my position as well, the 16th anniversary of our late Prime Minister's death. In this anniversary of death, we have been to the head of the tomb of tens of thousands of people, lovers, lovers. I explained that we had a citizen who was disturbed when he was there, but there wasn't an ambulance there. He had to be sent by taxi. My dear friends, yes, he was our brother Zulkhub Kose, and he received the mercy of Hakkk. Yes, he was an imam in the Blackbuke Safranbolu. I ask for God's mercy. May his place be in heaven. My condolences to his entire family. So I really think it's an exemplary example of how even during a ceremony such as this, those who come to the ceremony show that a sense of management, which doesn't even consider a health issue, is far from the community. Yes, today -- actually, tomorrow, April 5th -- we're going to evaluate the problems of lawyers as well as lawyers, but above all, the high-profile MPs, you know, the prime minister's office has introduced delegations of smart people, propaganda teams have been introduced. These teams, as it is known, were modeled after the Mondros Adventure in history, and they were sent to 7 regions, and they were sent to provide peace and quiet, and it is understood today that the purpose of these delegations was to take on a mission like the Council of the Council of Ministers in history. Of course, why did people take over this task, I leave it up to them, but first of all, I respect the will of the President of the Turkish Bar Association to be on these lists of rational people, in the name of Lawyer's Day. Indeed, in the sensitivity of representing a professional organisation, they have stood up to a mindset that considers that there are people in a different opinion to this professional organisation and wants to infect institutions with politics for political purposes within the framework of the mandate given to them by the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0057par0182	There's a general council in May, so...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0056par0183	Actually, the AKP MP just said something very interesting. He said that the mindset that runs the bar is like a political party. I'm asking you now: isn't it political use of the president of the Bar Association of Bars, the president of the Turkish-İHK, the President of the Union of Agriculture, the President of the Chamber of Chambers, the President of the Chamber of Chambers, the President of the Traders and Artists to promote AKP? For him, the way these institutions are tasked with politics and protection and protection and protection of the AKP is, above all, a violation of the rights, political preferences of members of these institutions, which directly demonstrates the existence of an oligarchic dictatorship in Turkey and is done with pressure and threats. Yes, it was done directly by the government. In this regard, the 135th article of our Constitution and its upper institutions, the public institutional institutions and its top institutions, says it is established by law by law to ensure that the people of a certain profession can meet their joint needs, facilitate their vocational activities, improve them in accordance with the general interests of the profession, maintain integrity with one another and with the common interests of the people. The Association of Bars, the Association of Chambers, the Chambers of Agriculture cannot be transformed into the occupational institutions the government will appoint and promote. Even this mentality is very important for it to reveal how democratically uncontroversial it is. In that respect, the President of the Bar Association has taken a very careful stand and taken a stand. I don't know how many people are on that committee, how well they know about Oslo, how much they know about the Imbilian talks, how much they know about the so-called solution process, but first of all, I want to express to you that there is no place in democracy for an understanding like getting down on this nation, pressure, threat, and this nation to become a man. In that sense, I also say that it would be positive for other professional organizations to not be part of this committee called the ecclesiasticals, because there are a lot of valuable people from these institutions who are looking for us, from different political parties. So they represent an institution, and they represent people who have accession ties. I think that without the will of these people who have a membership bond, the mentality that makes them officers of political power is contrary to the will and appreciation of those who support them above all else. Yes, lawyers have a very important mission. In fact, from time to time, lawyers always call it defense, but they also make claims. They promote rights or interests that protect rights and interests, and they do it for the citizen. Hence, difficulties in fulfilling the role of a lawyer cause problems in protecting the rights and interests of a citizen. This is not a lawyer's job. The target is a citizen. He's seeking rights for the citizen or defending himself in the face of responsibilities. In this case, it's not right to judge law as a lawyer, as an outcast, as a representative, because it's the right and the law of a citizen beyond the profession of a lawyer. Just as the valued lawmakers represent this nation, they make decisions for the nation by word and will, and lawyers do so on behalf of the citizen they represent. In that sense, the difficulty of the practice of law enforcement is that the citizen is directly troubled. In fact, it is not right for the practice of law enforcement to be evaluated within its own borders as a profession. It's impossible to remove the profession of attorney from the problems of the judiciary. In an independent and unbiased judiciary, it is not possible for a lawyer to protect the rights and interests of the citizen he represents by doing what is required of his profession. In that regard, the independence and neutrality of the judiciary, the ability to conduct advocacy over the judiciary, the power of impressive qualities, is a framework that prevents lawyers from protecting citizens' rights. In this regard, the most important problem in this judicial system of law enforcement in Turkey is that the judiciary is now, unfortunately, the judgment of those who have power is becoming the judgment of those who have power, and the judiciary is getting more and more distant from independence and neutrality. In this framework, the state of law in Turkey has been put under the influence of ministers, especially in the name of the solution process, the talks with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and any questioning regarding the process... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it would be madness for the ministers to rise up and press prosecutors and judges with threats, a direct blow to the state of the law. As a nationalist movement party... our lawyers have very important issues, both occupational and occupational issues. I think we should all set up a commission on the problems of our lawyers. On this occasion, Mr. Congressman has just stated: "Come on, let's set up a research commission in the House for the purposes of the law, let's figure out the problems and solutions in this framework, and I give you all my respect.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0058par0193	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Against Republican People's Party Group proposal, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0059par0197	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, April 5, 1878, were the first General Assembly of the Istanbul Bar where I was also a member. Later, on January 3rd, 1934, the meeting of the Association of Lawyers of Turkey is held in İzmir. On April 5, 1958, the Bar Association of Bars was formed in İzmir, and Tekirdağ was founded on May 16, 1987, a very recent day for lawyers in Turkey. Well, if the lawyers can celebrate this day in peace, that's the whole problem. We've submitted similar motions from CHP's research motion. Indeed, the case has serious issues with the issues of prosecution, defence and trial as a trilateral trial, and it is imperative that they be discussed, discussed, and set up a new law of law. Because Turkey has agreed to a fair trial in the Constitution, Article 90 is open. The side of the European Convention, the side of the Venice Criterians, is the side of many international contracts. So, how are the lawyers doing? We're going through a period where lawyers are most under arrest because of their defenses, my friends. So, based on the possible covert wiretaps, prosecutors are arresting lawyers with the same materials about their clients, who have a pre-inhibitive meaning in these wiretaps. And lawyers, in the struggle for democracy, in the times of coups, in the difficult times, in the 60s, in the 70s, in the 80s, they defended their right to defend them with dignity, and they paid the ultimate price. There are lawmakers in this House who have received all of these coups, postmodern coups, whether they're right-wing or left-wing. Each of them was tried one way or another, they were questioned, arrested, and when we looked very recently at the homes of lawyers, the offices, their relations with their clients -- they did it with different deep forces, the gangs did it, the coupters did it, but it's time, they're able to do it. Now, who can explain to me that because Abdullah Ocalan is the lawyer of the Imralı, he went as his lawyer, the arrest of lawyers because he met. They took instructions from there and sent them in interview notes. But there's a law, there's an officer of the Justice Department, that's military and under the supervision of the Department of Justice, that's under surveillance. Now, you lawyers, especially after this final process, after these peace, solution talks, I'm asking you why these lawyers are in these days, where we're going to be able to go and meet very comfortably, where our fellow members of the party are going to go and meet with our friends, and hopefully, very soon, the days when the gun, the conflict, the blood, has been wiped out of the agenda of Turkey. I don't see the explanation for this. I don't understand it, and I don't want to understand it, so there's no explanation, guys. Why are these prisoners, private court officials doing this? Muharrem Erbey -- international organisations are coming, awarding -- has been under arrest for more than three years. Look at the history of the Association of Modern Legists President Selçuk Koztree... a social democrat, socialist, democratic leftist, liberal, libertarian, every section of the community... who resists coups and resists coups in the dark days of September 12th coup. If you get up and break down the door of a president of a law society with hundreds and thousands of members and arrest him, the equality of weapons will be questioned in this country because of his duties. There's no justice in a country where lawyers and prosecutors are not equal. If the carpenter's mistake is that the lawyers are still down there, the prosecutors are up there, there's something wrong with the justice of this country. There's something wrong with that, my friends, if the justice goddess in front of the Constitutional Court is wearing a shawl. Look, the right to defend is sacred, everyone needs it. Now, interrogating a lawyer for doing his duty and accusing him of being an illegal member of an illegal organization is a very bad thing. Lawyers can't be heard, special calls need to be made by the prosecutor, and their doors are broken down. I demand that all lawmakers who are lawyers and lawyers go to Kandira Prison, where hundreds of lawyers are under arrest, go see them, listen to your colleagues. For God's sake, there's a power of attorney, a three-year sentence for an interview. This is no way to get justice in this country. The fourth package ofjudgment contained the equality of weapons, removed. Why did we take it out, guys? It was in the ECHR decisions. We're gonna fix that carpenter's mistake, and we're gonna get those prosecutors in line with the lawyers, and let them know that, and let them know that, and we're gonna have to organize it in this Law of Law sooner or later. The ruling MPs, first of all, if you're going to support us on this, we're going to do it side by side, side by side, no choice, justice needs everyone. We're gonna fix the carpenter's mistake, we're gonna fix the scales, we're gonna show everybody that law is needed, and we're gonna show them that defense is sacred. Now, you can't get up and tell me about this on Lawyer's Day, when a judge in a private court ordered the prosecutor's office to beat up a lawyer, to beat up lawyers, no one can tell me about it, my friends. Can you tell me, in the case of Mendesres, the lawyers were attacked by Robocop. Can you tell me, Robocop have attacked lawyers in martial law, and by order of judge and prosecutor. What's going on in this country, fellas? You'll question whether a prosecutor's door was broken down in this country, or if a judge's door was broken down, or if it was a legal guarantee, it was the same for the lawyer and for the judge, there's no higher or lower. If the prosecutors and judges are high, that country's dictatorial means it's still feeding on legislation; we have to fix it. Let's do this research, let's do it together, guys, we won't lose anything. Believe me, we have made a promise, and we have motions, but from here, I'm speaking to the arrested lawyers: Are we going to celebrate your Lawyer's Day, your handcuffed hands? Celebrate the plots on those covert wiretaps? We're supposed to shut down your offices and celebrate those who condemn you to unemployment? We're gonna open up a law school like mushrooms every day, question a system that gives grads without education, celebrate? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, we can't celebrate under the circumstances, but we call on lawyers to fight. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0060par0210	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Human Rights Review Commission, the European Union Compliance Commission and the Interior Commission reports, which are ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? Here. The government is here. In the second chapter of the 81st article of 21/3/2013, the motion was laid down on Article 36. Now, to remind you that Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan and his friends have not joined the Commission and the government, and that the motion has been made, I will read it and submit it to your votes: T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 36th draft of the current 310 rows bill. In the article (d) joke, we propose that the expression of the article be changed to 100/80 days. Erdal Aksunger Muharrem Illum Aylin Nazlıaka Malik Ecder Özdemir Aytun Çiray I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 38 that I read and process: T. B. M. M. To the presidency. The 38th draft of the current 310 rows bill. We would also like to add a sentence to physicians who have come to the end of paragraph 1 of the article to perform the same exercise. Namik Havutça Ali Serindağ Muharrem Light Ahmet Toptaş Sinan Aydın Aygün Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0061par0247	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0060par0248	Government? We don't agree. Mr. Yilmaz, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] (x) 310 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 80th Consolidation Charter, dated 20/03/2013.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0062par0253	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, tomorrow is April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I, for one, congratulate all my colleagues here and all the lawyers in Turkey on Lawyer's Day. But I'd like to question, friends, if there really is a lawyer's work being done on Lawyer's Day, and if the lawyers are really where they deserve to be judged, we should all question it. Just good wishes and good wishes aren't enough; I think we should bring up some issues here about the problems of the profession, and therefore the problems of the judiciary. There's a Ergenekon hearing on April 8th, folks. Those who went to this Ergenekon trial saw with pity what an attack our lawyer friends were facing there. Let alone the defendants, their injustices, their unlawfulness, that illegal debate, that illegal argument, but our fellow lawyers were beaten there only because of their professional activities, they were beaten and thrown out of the courtroom. Now, I'm asking all the lawmakers here, our lawyer friends, especially the lawyers, do we want to live in a country like this, friends? We're going to tolerate these illegalities, the attacks on this defense profession, and you're going to let it go? Don't you feel any pain at all about the attack on our fellow lawyers? Our lawyer friends have a gun? Did our lawyer friends insult you there? Our friends are being subjected to this attack just because they want a say in defending their clients. Friends, in the same way, a lot of people were attacked that day. On April 8th, we'll go as lawyers, which means we'll go as lawmakers, all our organizations will go. We're going to go to those Silivri hearings on April 8th to expose the unlawfulities in the Ergenekon case, to put it in front of the whole world. But we've learned that the Ministry has put up a tender to put up barriers there. Those barriers won't stop us, my friends. There we will be, along with all our citizens, saying no to this unlawfulness. Dear friends, the attacks on our fellow lawyers aren't just about that. The offices of our lawyer friends at the Society of Modern Lawyers, our executive friends, have been broken into. We all know the way the lawyers' office is searched. But without following this form, without even fitting the form, the doors were broken, our friends were taken in beaten, taken into custody, and now they're under arrest. Our lawyer friends from the Istanbul Bar Association, who wanted to protest, were beaten again at the Istanbul Courthouse, dear friends. Again, a lawsuit has been filed against members of the İstanbul Bar Association Board. You can't limit the right to stand trial in court in order to defend the right to defend the attacks on Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases alone, if there's a principle of equality of weapons in this country. You should also know the attorneys as well as the rights you have known to the prosecutors. The members of the Istanbul Bar Board are now on trial for the crime of affecting the judge. They have a trial on May 17th. We'll go there to defend them as well, dear friends, to defend those who defend the defense. Now, you guys, I'm really asking people who listen to me, and I don't have a word for those who don't listen: really, is there a democracy in this country, is there a rule of law, can we talk about the rule of law at a time when even the defense is eliminated? According to the European Court of Human Rights rulings, some regulations have been made. But if the principle of equality of weapons is not protected in a universal sense around the world, dear friends, then we see that we are now completely ruled by dictatorship in this country, that there is a total dictatorship, that our people now see. What you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, your lack of law in the Ergenekon cases, is no longer enough to fool the citizens, dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The MPs in the Ergenekon case, the chiefs of staff, you, the terrorist, are branding these people in prison, but you're trying to get the terrorists out of the country under state supervision. How do you explain that to the public, I want to understand that. The real terrorists are coming out, but you're keeping our judicial deputies, the Chief of Staff, inside. You won't be able to explain it, my friends, you won't be able to explain it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0063par0263	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0064par0265	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit03spe0063par0266	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends' proposal had not been reached enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll continue the talks of Bill 310. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion on Article 39, which I make to read; Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 39th draft of the current 310 rows bill. 2 in the article. In his joke, we propose and supply to change the word to terms. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Muharrem İlşım Sakine Öz Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0065par0016	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0063par0017	Do you agree with the government? We don't agree. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0066par0021	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I felt the need to make a second commitment because my words had just been interrupted. I was just talking about the Silivri hearings, the Ergenekon case. Now, I'd like to brief some of my friends on the fundamentality of the Ergenekon case. Especially since AKP lawmakers are so biased about these issues, I think I should inform my friends because they don't know what's really there. In the case of Ergenekon, friends are asked to the MET, to the General Command of the Gendarme, to the Security Directorate and to the Chief of Staff of the General Staff. By the High Criminal Court, it is said: Is there an organization called Ergenekon? What is your knowledge of this organization? The answer comes from friends: we have no knowledge from an organization called Ergenekon. There is no such organization. There is an answer. That's the official answer to the court, folks. Then, from the very beginning of this case, the person who was based on the testimony of this case, Tuncay South, says: "In fact, the Ergenekon case was a project, there is no such event. It's over now. It's based on my testimony, but I don't want people to be victimized anymore, I don't want them to stay in prison. It's time for this case to be over, my friends. There are witnesses resting there. They say that when they appear before the court, including some journalists and writers such as Fehmi Korir, they do not know how to organize a group called Ergenekon (Ergekon), they do not have news without such organization, they only hear from the press, and then they hear about it because of the trial process. Now, in a case like this, in a baseless case, dear friends, people, 64 people are facing a aggravated life sentence. Our lawmakers are in on it, and 64 people, including our MPs, are facing aggravated life imprisonment. There's no evidence, there's no witnesses, there's no positive response to the museums in any way, and all the people who are basing their testimony say there's no such organization, but they're asking for aggravated life imprisonment, including the Chief of Staff. Now, friends, whose conscience does that fit? I'm asking friends of the law if a case like this requires a aggravated life sentence, dear friends. That's why they go there because people's conscience won't let them. On April 8th, people will go there, even with both hands in blood, to stand up against this unlawfulness. And, my friends, some people were deposed from the Ergenekon case last week. Reason: Former President Turgut Özal is said to have been charged with poisoning and murder. Now, my friends, I'm asking you, did the Forensics Agency give you a report on the poisoning of Turgut Özal? In this report -- don't shake your hand, you have to listen to me -- even if it doesn't suit you -- there's no evidence of poisoning. Although it is said that there is no evidence of poisoning, the testimony of Hursit Tolon, former military commanders, is taken based solely on the testimony of a corporal who was discharged from the army. Even though there's no evidence that a man was murdered, can these people be so wasted, friends, with the testimony of a secret witness who was discharged from the army? I can't do this anymore. You can't say yes to that much. You mustn't, dear friends. Guys, besides, you know, there's an issue of smart guys coming up right now. Those wise men are no new process in the history of our country. In fact, there's a delegation founded by the son-in-law Ferid in order to persuade the people not to stand up to the invaders. Now, in the same way, you're forming a group of smart men that, Aman, do not oppose the division of our country, or terror will come again. You're trying to convince these people to divide the country with the pressure of terror. That's what you want to do. Now, these people are going to go, and they're going to say, "Aman, don't argue with it, if you resist, violence will start again." Why is the state of this country, the government of this country, the security forces of this country standing? Of course we all want peace, we say peace to the end. But not by making compromises in making this peace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...not by saying yes to the PKK terrorist organization, but by saying, "There can only be negotiations." What are you doing? ▪ Go abroad with the guns. You say. That's not acceptable.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0067par0032	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 40 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 41 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 42 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 45 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 48 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 50 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 51 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 52 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 55 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section three. The third part covers between 61 and 90. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu has asked for a speech on the third chapter. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0068par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a special point of this matter. In a statement yesterday, AKP Vice President Huseyin Çelik Bey has made a statement regarding people who are sane: "The groom Ferid, who is a member of the Council of Justice, has made a statement that he is no match for the People's Commission. " Mr. Hussein probably doesn't know what Nasiha is. He also used another word here, which is, "All completions in the Ottomans are subjective." He used a phrase in the form of a message, which means "Administration." Now, what he's called is what we call eternizations, which are used in Ottoman, Arabic and Farsi. For example, it's like the state of Osmaniyya, which, yes, changes between feminin-masks. The root of the word "Akil" comes from the word "ekl" (e.g. The word "eclamption" means eating, but the word "axile" means "aqile." Thus, the message has nothing to do with mankind.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0069par0063	You're confusing Kaf (Kaf) with, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0068par0064	I'm not. ▪ It has nothing to do with reason. Now, in the other direction... You think I'm mixed up, you'll see if you go and look at the ligaments. On the other hand, I don't think Hussain knows what "Nasiha" means. After the occupation of İstanbul, there are two delegations to be formed by the son-in-law Ferid government in İstanbul. There are two important policies after the Mondros Investigation of this delegation. In the beginning, the first one is related to the control of minorities, minorities in Anatolia, of their movement against the Muslim element because it raids houses and somehow kills Muslims by shooting at coffeehouses. That's the first one. So, armed gangs are trying to intimidate the Turks. The first task is within this framework. Second, it is intended for society to be digested in some way to prevent them from acting against enemy invasion against people who have suffered the strain of war for many years. For this reason, two delegations have been asked to be formed, each of the seven heads of the two princes. This is the two delegations of the prince Abdulhalim Efendi, and the prince Abdurrahim. These delegations have been sent to Asia Minor with a Shimendifer, and they have been given sufficient supplies. The mission of the delegation, in particular according to Farid the groom, is to say that it is more spiritual, and its duty is to convey the salutations to the people, to tell them that our king is thinking of them, and that his immediate hearts are like the heart of the subject. However, in an article published in Ikdam daily at the time -- Mehmet Ali Bey was an Inner Minister -- was stated in a meeting with him at the time by the journalist; are you hoping to succeed? Mehmet Ali Bey answered the question: Doubtlessly, it is an assumption for Armenians and Greeks to be found in the delegation. Now, serious articles have been published in the newspapers of that date, and these articles have stated what tasks this committee, established in this framework, will carry out and will succeed. However, it's interesting that when this delegation goes to Anatolia, especially at that time, during the establishment of this delegation, the groom, Ferid Pasha, had specifically stated that they would not be able to give any members to this delegation, even though he had asked the next British chief to join the delegation. At these dates, you know, on December 21, 1918, the Assembly of Mebusan was shut down, and the date of the operation of this delegation was between 16 April and 18 May 1919. This delegation has gone to Anatolia, where they have made various talks in Anatolia, but if you review all of these talks, it aims to prevent the people in Anatolia from somehow resisting the invasion forces. As a result, in response to a speech made by the prince in the Izmir region, the people in the region asked the prince if the delegation intended to justify and strengthen the occupation of the country in some way. For example, a girl from the school of orphans versus the prince, my dear prince, you have blessed us with your visit. Our great Khan's servants, who do not accept slander, offer their allegiance to the athebe-strength. In response to his saying, other than that, the delegation is seen to have been strongly opposed and even grave insults to the prince in their talks with the original party in other areas. Following these talks in Anatolia in particular, the delegation was in the 18th edition of the Ataturk Research Magazine, in a broad way, by preparing an article. If there are desires, it is possible to see the difference between today's delegation and the delegation at that time, or the similarities. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what is it you really want to do? Today is no different than that day. A delegation has been formed to somehow intimidate the people who would oppose the invasion of an occupied country, to break their resistance to this invasion. Today, we thought that the delegation would be the ones to resolve the disputes between the government's decisions and the PKK's decisions. But then we found out that the committee, the council of rational people, was supposed to go and use the government's program to convince the government of its policy. Thus, it turns out that the goals of both delegations are more or less the same and that they want to control people's minds. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0070par0076	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0071par0079	I have a request to make amends, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0070par0080	Now, I've called our friend, and then I'll make a promise according to Article 60. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0072par0082	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the third part of the International Protection Act Bill, and on behalf of foreigners number 310. I salute the General Assembly. The concept of the international law refers to those who are out of the country where they are a citizen and who are unable to return to the country where they are not citizens, because they fear that they will be persecuted by a certain group of people because they are afraid that they will be persecuted, or because they are afraid that they will be persecuted or because they are afraid that they will be persecuted. In addition to a number of international and regional human rights agreements involving such persons, the legal system includes the Legal Status of the 1951 Refugees and the 1967 Protocol, also referred to as the 1951 Convention or the Geneva Convention. The legal framework for refugees acknowledges that they need special international protection because they are not protected by their own origin countries. While refugees differ from immigrants for these reasons, they usually use the same travel routes or smuggling routes as immigrants and face similar human rights violations in the countries they cross or come from. Turkey has sided with the Geneva Convention with a geographical limitation and does not accept people from outside Europe as refugees. This creates a situation where refugees, asylum seekers, or others in need of international protection are deprived of protection, causing legal and practical complications. Despite this limitation, Turkey remains a place of refuge for thousands of people who fled in fear of persecution from countries outside Europe. In recent years, the number of refugees who have come to our country for both economic reasons and work and to live has significantly increased because of war and persecution in our country, both in neighbouring countries and in the vast region. On the other hand, immigrants and refugees who are trying to cross the country by leaving the country for economic reasons and conditions of war and persecution, especially on the Turkish-Greek borderline, are an important component of our country's irregular migration dynamics. Dear lawmakers, there appears to be serious problems with policy and practices related to refugees coming to our country. The conditions of the physical eclipse of migrants and refugees who were caught trying to enter the country in irregular ways or to enter Greece, such as the ability of registered asylum seekers to support their families, health, work, and families, and access to basic rights and resources, or to endanger the rights of immigrants and refugees; the principles of administrative procedures carried out in their rights, lack of freedom, administrative oversight practices, legality and refugee status; the access to asylum procedure of those who have declared that there is a legal and refugee situation; the removal and implementation of their extramarital decisions, and the application of those who are subject to persecution of international law, and the lack of human safety and integrity; especially the lack of protection of women, and the rights of protection of women, and the rights of those who are subjected to protection and administrative rights, and the rights of the rights of those who are subjected to be subjected to the rights of international law. The country's foreign, irregular immigration management and the lack of a framework of legislation that regulates asylum and is not confined to the administration, and the area of broad administrative recognition, which is not restricted to the law and administration; the fact that various laws and regulations that have already been organised in part are behind international standards and the Constitutional Way; the Security Directorate, which has already been tasked with managing this area, is under major liability due to the lack of resources, the institutional structure and expertisation shortcomings; the Security General's mandate is due to a narrow security perspective on issues; the lack of judicial and control of the judiciary. Mr. President, the bill of Foreign and International Protection Law, which arrived at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on May 3, 2012, has been an important concern for Turkey's preparations for reforms, which have been under the influence of the European Union for five years, especially in the area of foreigners, migration and asylum. Under Law 4817, which regulates foreign work permits, foreigners' permits and times are of great importance. Law number 4817 considers the residence permit and residence of foreigners in many important articles, such as applying for work permits, working permit types, exceptions, permits and extension applications. Applying for a permit for non-independent work permit, such as a residence permit, or a residence permit for displaced foreigners, is a requirement for a foreign person's legal and uninterrupted residence in our country. The bill provides changes to the system of foreign work permits, the right to work for foreigners who have never been allowed to work in our country, the use of work permits as a residence permit, the decision of unauthorized foreigners to be deported. We consider the ministry's approach to involving non-governmental civilian actors to a specific extent in the discussion process to be a very positive and an example in terms of democratic needs. However, a number of important shortcomings remain. At the beginning of the deficits in the bill is the preservation of the geographical limitation policy that does not allow refugees from outside Europe to remain in Turkey in the long term. In addition, the decision to deport the bill must be lifted completely from the joke of those who support it, a member, a supporter of the terrorist organization, or a member of the criminal organisation, which states that it can be deported. According to Article 59 of the Turkish Penal Code, the ministry is already authorized to deport prisoners of these crimes, while the administration's access to such authority without a judicial verdict would be against the law. A clause on people who will apply for international protection must also open the way for people to apply for governorships personally, as well as for legal representatives or lawyers. The applicants must be informed during the registration in the language or language of the country, where they are citizens of possible outcomes, appeal procedures and times. In addition to the principle of being informed in the language understood by the person who failed to enter the draft, the law should also stress that the translation activity will be free. I salute the General Assembly with these thoughts again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0073par0097	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Erzincan MP Muharrem Iş. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0074par0101	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the third chapter. I salute you all. Of course, valuable lawmakers, this law is more about citizens, immigrants and refugees. We passed this law by mutual agreement when we met on the subcommittee as the Internal Affairs Commission. Of course, what I'm particularly trying to say here is that when refugees come or the homeless come, we have to take care of them, of course, but the only thing I want to draw attention to here -- refugees from Afghanistan came to Erzincan, and they're trying to be placed -- there's government money being spent there, these citizens, people coming. And it's supposed to be spent, but I don't like the way you look at it, and I don't like the way it's bothering the citizen, and I think it's not nice that you see people coming in there -- you can argue -- and you see them as a potential vote, and you try to manipulate them accordingly. Of course, when you're talking about migrations here, you have to think about the people in our homeland, when you're thinking about the people who don't have a country, when you're thinking about the people who don't have a country. We don't have to say much about the law because it's already a partnership. Now, of course, one of the biggest reasons in internal immigration is unemployment. And when we say unemployment, I want to talk a little bit about Erzincan's problems here, and, of course, this is Turkey's problems. One of the problems -- I brought it up earlier -- is the privatization of Aras Electricity. We've told you what it's like to be privatized here. There was a lot of trouble here, but unfortunately, the State Attorney's Offices broke its decision, and it says something very interesting when it breaks down here, that there's a missing fugitive of 29.4 percent here; therefore, because of this fugitive, the privatisation of this place would do a great deal to the company in that area. In what seems to be seen, there's Mr. Minister's explanation, in his tours to thank you, he says in his speech for stealing YEDAS, he says: you've reduced the rate of missing fugitives to 7.5 percent, so I expect all distribution companies to this kind of success at the end. Now, here's the conclusion: I, for one, vouch for Erzincan. No one in Erzincan is a thief, no one steals electricity. I don't accept that rate. I expect the same thing from Erzurum, Ardahan, Bayburt, Iğdir, and the MPs of Kars, and I want to vouch for them, and they don't steal electricity. Where he's being kidnapped, who's driving, who's taking, who's taking, who's finding him, and they're doing it according to him, but all of the citizens... there are so many fugitives here, so they need to be privatized, he says. According to the union's research, it is said to be sold for one-third when it should be sold triple. It's a huge area. So that's how it went. Here, of course, with this done, there will be a lot of unemployment, people will migrate to other places, the firm that will buy those employees, probably won't work. Before, Erzincan had many general managerships, and we already know how many people migrated with them closed down. On another subject: Of course, I mentioned agriculture in Erzincan yesterday. Here, especially with the privatisation of this power company, there's going to be a lot of trouble in watering agriculture -- I told you yesterday, I'm telling you over and over again -- and people aren't going to plant it. Of course, you already have this policy about not planting, and you say to people, "Don't fail." You've done this before, in 2003, very well. Mr. Minister of Agriculture is here. Then bring them, and give them the deed, and we will give you support. You said, "We will give you money." And you gave people a lot of money without adding it. Of course, I mentioned here yesterday that some of the money was given to whom, and there's something to be done about it. The interesting thing about this is that when electricity is sold to the farmer for 9.5 cents in the U.S., it sells to him for 19.5 cents in Turkey, at a much more expensive price and not enough, 17 percent of the missing fugitive is applied to electricity spent on irrigation in this agriculture, even though it has nothing to do with it. Here's the money that's been cut into the TRT, the contributions to the municipalities, they all come into it. Of course, you've made a few pardons in particular about agriculture over the years, and you've also brought pardons for these pardons, and you've postponed the debt to the Agricultural Bank, and you've postponed the loans to agriculture, but you've never forgiven it... once you've forgiven it, the others haven't been forgiven, you've gone to a new configuration. The citizen is trying to close the loan with a loan. And he's always in debt to the banks for taking it out on loan. Of course, somewhere, when he owes money to the banks, he owes you money because he's waiting for a new arrangement. Sure, I've got this much paperwork. What are these papers? All of these -- they've just arrived, and they're still coming -- they've either been put to work or they're going to be executed by the irrigation units in Erzincan. These came, and the rest will probably come. We'll take them out when it's their turn, and we'll let them know when we get a chance. Of course, you don't particularly like it here before 1980 -- before 1980, although you don't like it after that -- we sell 7 times more agricultural products than we buy from the outside, and that's 65 percent of our exports. But right now, unfortunately, you know how much we're getting. Of course, according to the project given by the IMF, which I've just told you, since you've been implementing the plant-ending project, there's been a 300 percent increase in mazotta, for example, in the last ten years. The diesel was $1.1 in 2002; today, it is $4.4 in 2013. In 1975 -- in the year that you don't like -- 1 kilo of wheat buys 1.08 litres of diesel; today, in 2013, it only weighs 7-9 kilos. Why do I say seven or nine kilos? Because even if you explain 600 liras, it has often been much lower, and there have been people who have sold their wheat up to 400. And we know that you've fallen that far. Of course, as you're looking at it, we know that the price of hay has now changed from $600 to $1,000. And the straws that were sold from those 600 are certainly not to be given to the animals, because after reaping, the soil that was left under them was pulled out of the pathoose, so they can't eat it, and the animals that eat it are already diseased. In 1980, we had 85 million animals, no hay shortages, but today we have 2013, 45 million animals, and we import hay. Of course, there's one more thing I'd like to draw attention to. France thanks us, giving our Minister the knighthood. And when he gives it to her, he says, "We gave it to my people because of your great support. " Whose agriculture did he support, and who did you give it to? France says: "We were stuck here, the farmers were thrown out on the streets, they poured out their wheat, they smashed their tomatoes, they made their animals. We then imported meat from France for 2.5 billion dollars -- let's not say wrong -- we bought live animals, or brought meat products, so we saved them. France gave it to us as a thank you, so let's just say thank you. One of the most important problems in Erzincan is the cheese of the overalls. Tulum cheese is number one in Turkey -- we're not always going to praise Malatya's apricot, we're going to praise Erzincan's cheese -- but unfortunately, in recent years, there's been a huge drop in meat cheese. And that's because there's a problem with the fact that it can't be done with the new regulation. Because they call it the source. Erzincan jumpsuit cheese, unfortunately, does not produce cheese when it boils. We're talking about disease. Brusella is a disease: If the cheese is suspended after three months in a jumpsuit, then there will be no brusella disease, and none of the cheeses that have been waiting for three months in all the works of the Agricultural County Directorate have found brusella. On the other hand, we have a natural pipe factory. It's been privatized for years, but after each privatisation, it's canceled, it's re-privatized. The people who work here are miserable. We're building so many TOKI dwellings, so use a kiremite to put a substance on the TOKI. And in the name of nature, it will be saved, and Erzincan will have a business opening in Erzincan, but unfortunately it doesn't. Here we have stock market speculators in our heads. Last time, four firms went in, and these four firms burned their $300,000, and they all gave up, and it was re-privaded, and it's gone again. So we're saying that here, the speculators of this stock market are doing something, they're probably taking it away. Why are they burning all this money? I've written letters, I've submitted questions to all the ministries, I've written to the relevant ministry. I'm afraid the answer to that is not positive. We're studying it, they're reopening it. Either turn it off, or don't really get involved if someone's getting rich here. Of course, we were at Adıyaman on the weekend. I can't go past Adıyaman without talking. Although friends do not agree, we are now members of Adıyaman. What are the problems with Adıyaman? After the Ataturk Dam was built, Adıyaman was cut off from the east. For years, Adıyaman has been promised the Nissibi bridge in Adıyaman, but still no contact with the east or southeast of Adıyaman. 60 percent of our Adıyaman province deals with farming and agriculture. Only 16 per cent of irrigable land can be watered. The largest source of livelihood in the province of Adıyaman was this - tobacco bread while dealing with agriculture. As it is known, tobacco planting has been banned since 2000, but it has not been planted, and because of the lack of watery agriculture, our citizens, the citizens of Adıyaman, are working as workers all over Turkey. In recent times, the textile centre, but with encouragement -- its location is very important in the name -- has gone with the recent incentive reductions. It is called this. The AKP, you know, has received the most votes in Turkey in the last decade, so Adıyaman is usually in the top three, but despite that, double roads, other things, Adıyaman can't get anything. We have one Mount Nimrod left, and you will give it to Malatiah. There is poverty in Adıyaman, there is unemployment, there is hunger, there is misery. The people of Adıyaman do not have 4+4+4 on their agenda. Our people don't have such strange laws on their agenda. Our people want food, they want work. And Adıyaman came up with something like this -- Mr. Ahmad isn't here -- but it's about Ahmet Aydın Bey: he wants a school to be built on another side, and he's putting pressure on it. We'd like to warn you about that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's not make that distinction, because now that you've done your part, you've got 51,000 of our votes, we expect you to deliver the service. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0075par0128	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0076par0131	Mr. President, lawmakers have now fallen to the Internet in a limited way as to what the AKP's constitutional proposals could be. I have made a promise to discuss this matter. Now, at the beginning of the Constitutional Compromise Commission, I'd like to remind you all that, first of all, you're going to get three people from each party, regardless of the number of votes, and all 12 people are going to get the same vote. No motion not made by unanimous vote will be accepted, not even in the Assembly's General Assembly. If such an agreement cannot be reached, if such a agreement cannot be reached, this commission will be annulled. At the same time, it has been said that the work of this Commission will not be subject to any time limitation. These promises were made before all of us, the MPs of all parties heard them, our people heard them, but then -- about two months before that -- Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, "That's enough, I've lost patience, you'll finish the commission's work by two months, and if you don't finish it, we'll move on. Mr. Prime Minister is the head of the administration. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is an organ that must have its own will under the separation of forces. Mr. Cemil Cicek was supposed to say, "Mr. Prime Minister, you cannot give instructions to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you will not take custody of the Parliament of the Great Nation of Turkey." He was supposed to say, "If he really were President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Cemil Cicek." But even though all these words have been forgotten, Mr. Cemil Cicek did not recall them at all, and accepted this prophecy and said: "Fast up the work. " He was told that plans B and C could also come to the agenda. Then, just two, three days ago, the Prime Minister said: "March 31 is the last day." From now on, whoever we do it with... whatever party comes, we do it with the BDP. Not only with BDP, friends, but you know Abdullah Ocalan's transcripts. There Abdullah Ocalan expressed some views on the constitution, even a definition of citizenship, which he explained in the constitution as to what kind of citizenship it should be. At that time, we saw that the talks were not actually in the Parliamentary Constitutional Compromise Commission, but in fact the talks were in Imralı with Abdullah Ocalan, which we observed. Unfortunately, as honored representatives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our hearts trembled, and it was a very painful thing for both parliament and state to be put in such a position. Unfortunately, we had to live in the 24th term as lawmakers. Now, what are the consequences of the negotiations with Abdullah Ocalan? We've all observed that the presidential system can be discussed and that autonomous regional governances can be accepted against it. The same thing was said in the Constitutional Compromise Commission; we can discuss it, if you say yes to the district councils. If you say yes to the state system, the federation. Well, he said yes to these things. He said at the time: I don't understand why the state system is being opposed. When the state system was in its due time to say yes, the state system was also called "Yes" when it tried to get our people to accept certain things with these wise men. I mean, Abdullah Ocalan, on the one hand, is suppressing the media, the Turkish nation and Turkish citizenship. We learned today that Turkish nationals and Turkish citizenship are not in AKP's motions. Ataturk nationalism is not in AKP's motions. Article 4 of the first 3 amendments are not in AKP's motions. Article 174, the laws of revolution are not in AKP's motions. There is no regulation in the AKP's motion that the language of education will be Turkish. At the same time, there is nothing in the AKP's motion that the state system on the protection of secularism cannot be created based on religion. What's in the AKP's motion? There's a presidential system against autonomous regional governments. To convince all of you, we see some brochures on the presidential system being printed and you guys are trying to convince...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0077par0137	We're convinced!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0076par0138	You seem convinced, but there are those who are not convinced.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0078par0139	We don't need convincing.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0079par0140	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0076par0141	To ensure that this country doesn't become an authoritarian theocratic dictatorship, to ensure that this country doesn't break up.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0079par0142	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0076par0143	... As the Republican People's Party, I want you to know that we will stand to the end.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0079par0145	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0080par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, since yesterday, Adıyaman has been highly spoken on this bench in our absence. Let me put it this way. Of course, we were pleased that they went to Adıyaman. I wish they could always see Adıyaman, east, southeast, everywhere. But I'd like them to tell me the beauty of Adıyaman here. Of course, nothing has been done to Adıyaman. Some words, such as "bad name," have been used. Let me tell you, dear friends, when Adıyaman came to power in 2002, the EC PARTI was ranked 68th among the 81 provinces he received from the public. At the present point, Adıyaman has risen to the 13th place of public investment in the province of 81. I mean, he's in the amateur league, the Adıyaman Champions League. Another issue, again, in 2002, was the public investment of Adıyaman (Adıyaman) at 10 million per year, while at the moment, the annual amount of public investment went up to 300 million.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0081par0153	Mr. President, it has nothing to do with this.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0080par0154	With schools, hospitals, educational opportunities, colleges...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0082par0156	Dear friends, Mr. Ahmet is a good merchant, for your information. He's good at shopping, transferring, for the record.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0080par0157	...your name is also improving, Turkey is improving, and growth, development, with the AK PARTY, will be even better.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0083par0158	Yes, thank you. [[Continue]] The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0084par0166	Mr. President, I congratulate Mr. Ahmet, Deputy Director of the Group. He's a good merchant, I'd like to point out.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0083par0167	Yeah. Well, you've made your point. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0084par0169	He's strong in negotiating, Mr. Ahmet, just so you know.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0083par0170	I submit Article 62 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0084par0171	Negotiating, good bargain, lowering the price quickly.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0083par0172	I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 64 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 65 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 66 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 68 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 72 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 75 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 77 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 78 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 79 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 80 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 81 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 83 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 84 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 85 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 88 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who do... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the talks of section four. Chapter four includes Articles 91 to 112. Anybody want a word on chapter four?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0085par0203	There isn't!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0083par0204	There's, there's... On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ali Serindağ of Gaziantep. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0086par0208	Mr. President, the 24th term is very efficient; we have very good traders, powerful in bargaining, well-appropriated in all goods...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0083par0209	Mr. Agha, let's hear it now. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0087par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the bill we discussed, and I salute you all. Congressmans, there's something we've been talking about all the time, it's a matter of basic law. The bill we're now discussing can be discussed as the basic law. Why? It systematically regulates a particular area. We don't object to that, but you, even the bag laws, sir, even the texts that contain materials that have nothing to do with each other, you bring them here as a fundamental law, and you mortgage the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We call good good and bad bad bad. This bill is well prepared, well-designed, ready and prepared for the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm congratulating my friends who've been working on this. My dear friends, immigration, it's a big deal. What is migration? Migration is a permanent change. There are some reasons that encourage migration, make migration mandatory. Some factors cause migration, some factors cause migration. We're talking about exodus, but both internal migration and exodus are affected by certain factors. What do you have to do? We need to reduce those factors. Then the imbalance between countries must be resolved. There's such a difference of development between countries, and you can't prevent an exodus. Look, according to U.N. data, in 2012, 230 million people live outside their birthplace. I mean, 230 million people are immigrants. We're guessing more or less how these people live. Why? Our country is a country that is both migrating and migrating from time to time. We have over five million citizens abroad. They also live as immigrants where they are. As Turkey, we have to take an interest in immigration issues and take the lead in international work in this area, my dear friends. And 72 million people have left their homes in the last year. 72 million people had to emigrate. No one, no one, would want to leave the land where they were born, no matter who. Then what is it? We need to eliminate those reasons. Now, my dear friends, you know, from Syria, quite a lot, we're taking asylum seekers. Currently, 285,984 people from Syria to Turkey and 93 thousand of them have returned to my dear friends. So, if 93 thousand people have come and come back, then all of these people are not people who have escaped from the violence there, from the war environment. We need to think about this. Then why are these here? We need to stay on top of this. So, again, close to 100,000 people come here claiming to have escaped the war environment, and before the environment is more stable, people are returning as the violence is getting more and more intense there. Why? So they didn't just come running away from the violence. We don't know where they came from. They say: "We have come from Syria. Let us know that they have come from Syria." We don't know because we decide based on the statement. And right now, there are 30,649 refugees in the camps at Gaziantep. May I point out, do you know how much there is in Şanliurfa? 90,532. There are two camps; in Viranşehir, and Ceylanpınar, two camps totaled 90 thousand. My dear friends, these are the ones that were recorded. There's the unregistered, there's the unregistered, there's the unknown, there's the unknown, there's the unknown, there's the unknown. We don't know anything about any of this. I have recently stated that there are more Syrians in the church than there are in the local population. All the signs are in Arabic. In Gaziantep, it is said that 40-50,000 Syrians now live outside these camps. What did the Department of Labor and Social Security do? Those who have more than six months of residence permit can be run as a bee from some registrations if the employer wishes. Now, most of the employees in these workplaces didn't get in by passport anyway. If he has not entered with a passport, he cannot receive a residence permit, and he cannot work if he does not have a residence permit. So what is it? Those who are employed are employees outside of those who enter by passport. What's he doing? It creates unfair competition. The unemployment rate in Gaziantep is 16.8 per cent, according to the figures of TÜİK. We couldn't provide them with employment, we couldn't employ them, we couldn't give them jobs, and then there were the Syrians. Let us put it this way: if there are people who seek refuge in our country, if there are people who come to our country, of course we will extend our human hand to them, there is no doubt about it, but we will not invite them. Turkey, unfortunately, has invited people here because of the wrong policy he's been following. The container city was built before the incident. He said, "Come. Let them come as often as they can." Why? If there are more than 100,000 refugees or asylum seekers, a new concept can be developed. My dear friends, it's not like that. International relations don't happen with such simple comparisons. Then, let my dear friends come. There is no cure, there is no cure. What's the cure? It's to make people happy where they are. If we can make people happy where they are, if we can contribute to their happiness, our greatest benefit will be theirs. But inviting people away from where they are, developing other policies over it, it's not good for them, it's bad for them, my dear friends. Now, Gaziantep, of course, is getting more damaged than that. I've just told Mr. Minister -- while Mr. Secretary is here -- that there is no watery agriculture in Islam and Nizip. In other districts, energy prices are high. A citizen of Nizip just called, saying: "They gave us an olive incentive, we planted an olive tree, but now we can't sell the olive oil, we can't sell the olive oil for $5.5. If we couldn't sell this olive oil, why did they encourage us? In short, immigration is a difficult area. Even our citizens who go to European countries with their own invitations face great challenges there. They've been subjected to a lot of racist attacks there, our citizens. In my opinion, it is not enough for us to take care of those who have come to our land and who have stayed in our homes and who will leave our land. Another matter that we should be interested in is improving our relations with the government of that country in order to ensure that our immigrant citizens abroad are happy there. Our citizens there have integration issues, they have other problems, they have civic problems, we have visa problems, first of all. Now, Mr. Government is coming out, saying, "Sir, we signed a visa exemption agreement with Tanzania today. We signed a visa waiver with Kenya. Can you do it with Germany?"
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0088par0222	We did it with Russia.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0087par0223	Can you do it with Germany?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0088par0224	We'll do it, we'll do it.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0087par0225	Can you do it with England? Can you do it with France?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0089par0226	We're almost there.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0087par0227	Tell me about them. Otherwise, sir, the visa exemption agreement with countries that are of little importance to our country and have very little international relations is not important. The important thing is, in the countries where our citizens go, we need to put pressure on those governments to take measures that will welcome them in a comfortable environment, or else they won't talk about envy. Now, Mr. President is coming out, and he says, "Sir, we can work this out with the imperial reflex." I'm moving on to another matter. What is this imperial reflex, for God's sake? Have you thought about it? The Ottoman Empire fell into a decline after the Treaty of Karlof, 1699. Okay? He's back. In the 19th century, people sought a cure to rid the Ottoman Empire of ruin. They left the state regime, entered the county system in the second half of the 19th century, and released the Province Order in 1864. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, you're going back, you're not going forward. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0090par0233	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Free Private, the Manisa MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0091par0237	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This week we're in, I have to say something that we think is very important to cancer weeks and cancer patients, but let's talk about how we got to this point of boredom first. Comparing 2002 to today, the government says continued health satisfaction is increasing, and patients have better access to health and access to medicine than they used to. This may have been true until a few years after 2002 and until 2007. In the meantime, there were constant surveys of satisfaction at the time, but from 2008 to today, the Ministry of Health no longer publishes the work he has done, and it is now the latest in its presentations to 2008. It has to be very clear that after a very bad system, any government, which should be thrown out, the Union of Turkish Medicines, the Union of Turkish Dentists, the Union of Turkish Dentists reported the issue, even taking medicines from free pharmacies, which they had discussed for a long time, all of the patients had reached a protocol with the previous government, which had reached a protocol point of protocol, but then came up after the economic, then after the political crises. They boast about it and say: "We have revolutionized health, whereas what is done has nothing to do with revolution or change or positive transformation. Only a rotten, rotten, forced to change and prepared their own dynamics came upon their own time. The government often boasts about lowering drug prices. But all over the world, pharmaceutical prices are dropping, aging drugs are getting cheaper. The grocery store in my neighborhood can't sell bread more expensive than next door, because I'll set a precedent for it. The health systems of all countries around the world apply reference pricing systems, displaying prices in one another through the possibilities of developing electronics and Internet access, and prices are dropping all over the world with the domino effect.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0092par0242	No bed, no doctor!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0091par0243	Since the AKP government, which has always taken these positives into its own hands, is only looking at them with price-oriented measures, because of a severe lack of dialogue with the pharmaceutical industry, the Turkish Medical Association, the Association of Pharmaceuticals, the Association of Dentists, the Union of Dentists, the Union of Dentists, they don't see them as shareholders, they don't listen to anyone, and where we come from, we're always saying that there's a lot of trouble in health, a lot of pressure in university hospitals, the state hospitals are looking for the old, the measures have not been taken in terms of capacity. But the Plan and the Commission can only do so if it's the last thing we've done in their own way. Mr. Idris Emen of the Radical newspaper, as if he was a patient, set out to see what we could do. And what happened was, on April 1st, he reported it, saying: they gave the ultrasound a year later, we bought an MRI four months later, we tried to make a phone call for 15 days, and we couldn't reach that very boastful dating system. Fifteen days later, we made an appointment, we left. The hospital used to provide the medicine for the film that was to be filmed, but take 3 boxes of medicine and 3 CDs, come on. They said. The hospital doesn't even have the money to use, they even asked us for it. Please, open the news on April Fool's Day and read it. And they filled the CD. Where we're going, we don't have a program to read this CD, so we got all these MRIs for nothing. Before the CD could be read, the diagnosis and treatment began. And there's another thing called patient limitation. The examinations of the $400-dollar patient and they said: "We have reached the ten-day limit given to us by the SGK, wait, come back in the next ten days, if the doctor says it's urgent. If he says it's urgent, pay $400 from your pocket. Before the AKP arrived, only the drug turnout was paid 10 per cent, 20 per cent, and now in addition to that, it's paid 5 lira in the state, 12 lira in private. The prescription fee is paid 3 liras, the equivalent difference of drugs, which is paid up to 10 percent of the cheapest drug; otherwise the vet pays, and the other one is paid by the report, and so are people over 65. An additional £1 per person, a special hospital difference rate is 90 per cent, you've come to see the difference fee earlier. The difference fee, the primary examination fee, the exceptional health care fee. I offer all of this once again to the knowledge of the High Council. In health, the story is over, and the truth is even worse than it used to be.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0093par0248	Thank you. Interviews on chapter four are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section four to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit the 91st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 92 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Article 94 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 95 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Aliens Number 310 and International Protection Act 95. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Izzet Çetin Veli Ağbaba Celal Dinçer Malik Ecder Özdemir İhsan Özkes Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu (1) It is essential that the person with an application or international protection status meets the needs of housing. (2) The General Manager can set up reception and housing centres where housing, employment, health, social and other needs will be met by the person with an application or international protection status. (3) In the centers, the hosting of special needs is a priority. (4) Acceptance and housing centres are run by governors. The General Manager can run the centers by doing protocols with public institutions and organisations, with associations that specialize in the Turkish Kızılay Association or immigration. (5) People who have an application or international protection status that resides outside the reception centre and housing centre and family members can be used to provide services at these centers. (6) The services provided at reception and housing centres can also be conducted through purchase. (7) The integrity of families in the centers is preserved in the measure of possibilities. (8) Representatives of the relevant NGO, which specializes in immigration, can visit reception and housing centres with the permission of the General Directorate. (9) The procedures and principles related to the establishment, management and operating of reception and housing centres are organised by regulations. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0094par0272	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0093par0273	Government? We don't agree. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0277	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, I wasn't going to, but Mr. Group Vice President said something, and I felt the need to talk. We need to talk about immigration, immigration. Actually, what we're talking about, what we're discussing, is very close to immigration. There's been talk of a transfer for days. Migration -- you know -- is being transferred from place to place, but this transfer is in migration -- immigration is done for mandatory reasons, transfers can be sometimes made immoral. So don't get too mixed up with the migration. Migration is sometimes... for example, the most important concern of Adıyaman is immigration. Friends, when you say Adıyaman, brave people come to you, righteous people come to you, moral people come to you. Unfortunately, from time to time, things are done that will ruin his image. When I say Adıyaman, I'm sorry to say, I'm sorry to say that Turkey also comes to be a farmer, a farmer, a farmer. Mr. Group, I don't know if the Vice President knows, Adıyaman is one of the most immigrating provinces. Where's he migrating to? In the season of the hazelnuts, Giresuna, the army, Niğdeh, and, alas, Malatiah at the time of the apricot. Nearly 100,000 people work as workers in Malatya. They don't know salt, they don't know it, they don't know it, they don't know it, but unfortunately, the poor man of Adıyaman, the poor man of Adıyaman, the honorable man of Adıyaman, instead of being sold away, goes away, labors, works, earns, lives. He stands upright, he stands upright, he becomes Adıyaman, Adıyaman, because he is a man. Now, you can't buy anything, Adıyaman. Adıyaman, the man, he can't return any value, Adıyaman. I tell you: Adıyaman goes up in the heat of the summer, he gets up in the heat of the morning, and he goes up in the bed with his children, and works with his children until ten in the night; and he goes up to the army for days, and in Giresun, and in the sweat of his forehead, and in the sweat of his children. Adıyaman, nobody's sorry, he doesn't make himself a bargaining chip. (CHP clapping in rows) He doesn't, he doesn't! Why wouldn't he? Because Adıyamanlı... you'll say that this could happen in Adıyaman? No, but unfortunately, that's one chance in a hundred thousand, one chance in five hundred thousand. Everyone should be ashamed of it. What does Can Yücel say, my friends? How hard it is to harvest clover, to be a man in our country. One more thing, my dear Can Yücel: "Ah, the world, you're coming back, we understand that these people are spinning faster than you, and there's no orbit." Can Yücel said that. Dear friends, this issue, this issue in politics, politics requires moralism, and politics requires respect for ethical values. Look, Adıyamanlı says... why did we go to Adıyaman?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0096par0287	To sell apricots!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0288	Look, you pick something, you give it to a person, B comes out. Well, now, that kind of... you should say, "Ayyy, you should be ashamed." Everyone who's involved in this should be ashamed, ashamed, ashamed of everyone who has morals. You can't buy 51,000 votes.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0097par0290	Nothing's been bought.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0098par0291	Don't shout! Don't shout!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0292	You're not gonna scream, you're not gonna scream! Recep is special... look, let me tell you something. You can't just yell at me like that. You can't yell at me.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0099par0294	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0295	I'm saying... [[From the AK PARTY rows, ▪ Speak properly, sounds, noises]] I'm speaking the truth.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0099par0298	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0299	Being a man is what I call being a man. I'm just saying that being a man of faith is not about getting involved in any negotiation. If you have any objections, say so. Adıyaman is poor, Adıyaman has voted 51,000.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0100par0300	Scream, shout!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0301	Is that a thing? He's voted 51,000 votes, you're gonna take him away! Then you'll defend ethics, then you'll defend morality! Pass him! There's no such thing! If anyone should be ashamed, it is the intermediaries of this transfer. If anyone should be ashamed, it's the people who are responsible for this transfer. I say Mr. Ahmet is a good merchant. Make your comments, dear friends. You make his comment, but look, it's history, history, history. You won't be ashamed of it, you'll yell at me. Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you for your age.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0101par0303	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0304	Respect the votes. I mean, I'm not saying anything more. I'm not saying anything more.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0102par0306	Don't...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0095par0307	If it's up to you to claim 51,000 people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0103par0311	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit04spe0104par0312	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0104par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 310. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit to your votes the motion on Article 95: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0104par0007	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0008	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0104par0009	But I'm taking a break, Mr. Canikli, according to the Civil Code, that's not possible.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0010	Okay, but, Mr. President, there have been some very serious accusations.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0104par0011	I know, but according to the Civil Code, that's not possible.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0012	It's happened before, Mr. President, so there's no need to use any other methods, I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0104par0013	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0017	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Of course, there was a really unpleasant discussion going on. First of all, it's important to say that there have been transitions to political parties in the past and in the past, other than many political parties, which have always been discussed, and it's natural to argue, and no one can object to that. But it's not right to say this transition in a manner that has nothing to do with the truth, which has nothing to do with anything moral. Also, look, guys, the AK PARTY doesn't need to buy votes. No, because any support, the strongest support, is being given by our nation. We don't need that.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0106par0020	Then why are you taking it?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0021	We don't need that. You know why? Look, guys, from the day we were founded as AK PARTY...
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0107par0022	Mr. Canikli, is this true or not?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0106par0023	Is there anything to brag about?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0024	If you'll excuse me, please... ...we have a saying to our people, that anyone who embraces our party, our program is open to the end.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0106par0026	If he's taking your party, then he should run from your party!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0108par0027	What a thing to say about your party!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0028	It's open to everyone, no matter who it is, whether it's the MP or another citizen who wants to join this staff, if he likes the principles, the services, the quality of the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0108par0029	What he said to your party, just like the other Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0030	...we open our arms to him, we certainly can't have a problem with that; otherwise it's unthinkable.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0108par0031	What he said to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0032	We need to consider that in this frame.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0109par0033	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0034	I mean, it's just that trying to identify it with some phrases, some definitions that I don't even want to repeat, is very wrong, very wrong, I'm returning it. Such statements should not be used.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0110par0035	I said it's missing, it's missing!
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0036	If you have a document, if you have a document, you talk out of interest, but when you don't have it, sir, this has happened. It's very wrong, it's absolutely wrong, it's not acceptable, so the last political organization to resort to such a thing is the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0111par0038	Go to Adıyaman and look around.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0105par0039	Our people give us all the support we can get. On this occasion, we thank our nation once again.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0112par0041	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. [[Continue]] I submit the 95th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes Article 96, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes Article 97, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 98 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 99 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the article 100, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 101 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 102 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 103 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 104 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 105 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 106 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 107 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 108 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 109 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 110 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 111 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 112 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The votes of the substances in section four are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section five. The fifth chapter includes the (1) to (4)th jokes of the (5) joke (a), (b), (c), (d) and (d) bents, (6) nth and (10) interim articles, including the 113th and 126th article, including the 113th and 126th article. There's no demands on chapter five. Talks on chapter five are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section five to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit Article 113 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In Article 114, the Commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go, Commissioner.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0113par0074	Mr. President, since our esteemed MPs have been converted into Human Rights Board of Human Rights on the 114th article of the bill, after their talks on the Commission, it is necessary to correct the declaration of the Prime Ministership Human Rights Office as the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, since it has been adopted by Law 6332, which was published and entered into force in the Official Gazette on 30/6/2012. I give you my compliments.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0112par0076	I submit to your votes the 114th article, which has been redacted: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit 115 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit 116, to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes 117, those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the 120, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit 121 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes 122, those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the (1)th joke of Article 123. Those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the 123. Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the third joke of Article 123. Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the third joke of Article 123 (4): those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the vote of Article 123 (5) of Article 5 (a): Those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the votes of Article 123 (5) of Article 5 (b): Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 123 (5) of Article 5 (c): Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 123 (5) of the 5th joke: those who accept... those who do not... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 5th joke of Article 123. Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 123, the 6th joke of Article 123, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Commission's request for a reduction is on Article 123 (7). Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0114par0097	Mr. President, due to the changes made in the Population Law, the 123 (7) clause of the bill (a) must be corrected by the ibare of the ibare, which is referred to as ίbb). I give you my compliments.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0112par0099	I submit to your votes the 123 (7) joke of the redacted: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 123, the 8th joke of Article 123, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes Article 123 (9) of Article 123 (9): Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 123, the 10th joke of Article 123, those who accept it... those who do not accept it... are accepted. I submit Article 124 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there's a motion on the interim item 1 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third joke of the Interim Article 1 of the International Protection Act shall be changed in the following way. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Ramadan Can Sermin Balık Azize Sibel Gönul The need for funding for the 2013 fiscal year is met according to the first article (c) of Article 6 of Article 6 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law, dated 20/12/2012/2012 and 6363. Until 31/12/2014, the appointment can be made without constraints in Law 6363, not to exceed 50 per cent of the staff imposed on behalf of the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0115par0115	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0112par0116	Government, do you agree? INTERVIEWING, WE AGREE. I'm reading the reason: The General Directorate aims to make budgets and accounting procedures needed in terms of guaranteeing the need for funding for its costs in 2013 and not subject to restrictions in the 2013 Central Management Budget Law, dated 20/12/2012 and 6363. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes in accordance with the motion accepted: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion at 125. I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change Article 125 of the International Protection Act and International Protection Act, as follows. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Ramazan Can Smurf Ünal Zulfü Demirkle ▪ MEDDE 125- (1) This Law; A) Article 122 was released in the fifth section of Article 123, except for its first, second, fifth and seventh jokes and Article 124 of Article 123, B) A year after the release of other provisions, It's in effect. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0116par0137	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-04sit05spe0112par0138	Government? INTERVIEWING, WE AGREE. I'm reading the reason: In the history of the release of the Law, the provisions for the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration, envisioned in Section 5 of the Law, the remaining provisions will come into effect a year later; it is intended to clarify its provisions that will be carried out in the history of the publication of this law. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the accepted framework of the motion, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 126 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in section five are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote vote be voted by any minister, and that the color of the game and the ballot bearing its name and signature, be delivered to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The International Protection Act and Foreign Affairs Bill came to an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 231 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Bayram Özcelik The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and put to your votes: (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. At a meeting of the Council of Advice 4/4/2013 on Thursday, it has been deemed appropriate for the General Assembly not to meet on Friday 5/4/2013. Nurettin Canikli Emine edır Tarhan Oktay Vural Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. Since there is no request for a speech, I submit the Council's recommendation to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'd like to make an announcement before closing: tonight in Kadiköy, we wish our representative Fenerbahçe of the quarterfinal match with Italian team Lazio in the UEFA European League. [[Applause]] We will begin talks with the Court's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place, in accordance with the Institutional Framework of the Initiative for Prepping and Precludement for the Disasters in Southeast Europe. [[Continue]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, since the commission will no longer be found, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (April 9th 2013) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of the bill and proposals -- according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
