tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 61st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, according to Article 58, I'd like to have my statement corrected about the last report.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0001par0013	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0002par0014	I'd like to change my statement in the last report, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0001par0015	About what?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0002par0016	Sir, the word "study" was mentioned there. There's an answer against me that offends me.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0001par0017	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0002par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you have no right to come to me, looking at us, and to fire him. When I said such things, I said to him: "I have been in this land more than you have, and I have lived in this land. My class has come out, and he says to me, 'You are a sacrifice to the mountains of my class, and you are a sacrifice to the mountains; you have defiled them; your name is not worthy.' You're an objector, a monotheist, a denier. (x) The statement on this statement was found on page 115 of the 60th Consolidation Charter, dated 31/1/2013. Of course, if I don't answer that now, friends... we don't answer that when we're talking. Of course, I am a man who defends the integrity and honor of the secular state of the Republic of Turkey. I am not a servant of the imperialists. I, after martyring 30 men... am not a man who's bent on trusting Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Now, dear MPs, we are sworn in here. Every honest, honorable, honorable man will fulfill his vow on this stand. The words, the expressions of the oath we made, are obvious. Now, someone's trying to run us over with the guns of the mountain. Guys, knock on another door! I have no fear. If I had that fear, I wouldn't have done politics alone in Tucson for 32 years. (CHP clapping in rows) So everyone needs to know that. What we want is to defend the integrity of this state, to create this state, to destroy the people who are trying to tear us apart. I've been against armed actions for the rest of my life. Friends, we are all human beings, why should we kill each other, why should we kill our soldiers, why should we kill our security forces, why should we send some young people to the mountain and let them die there?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0003par0023	Who's defending him, Mr. Cameroon? Don't talk to me like that!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0002par0024	If there's one thing that needs to be resolved here -- we have minds, we have minds, we have human emotions -- we can settle this by arguing amongst ourselves, but if someone tries to divide this country, we have to fight against them with all our might. This is the duty of our oath. So don't let anyone try to threaten us by trusting us with the gun from the mountain. I didn't answer those words because I didn't hear them, and if I did, I would have answered them right away. We have a clear forehead. On every ground, we will defend the unity of our country, our nation, and we will slap those who oppose it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President accused our group of acting differently here, trusting weapons on the mountain as we speak.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0005par0029	He didn't say to your group, but he didn't say anything about your group -- I watched it carefully, I listened -- he didn't say anything.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0004par0030	He meant our group.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0005par0031	I mean, we can't read intent now! Don't!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0004par0032	Now, I'd like to say a few words in order to get him on the record at the time. The Peace and Democracy Party has come here under democratic political norms to represent the will of the people in order to solve the country's existing problems. He leans his back on millions who vote only for himself, taking his power from there, never serving as an imperialist butler. Our friend, Mr. Sýrýr Bey, when he comes here and examines the necessary protocols, he'll give you the appropriate answer, but I'd also like to point out that we don't agree to any conversation to keep our group under suspicion like this.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0005par0034	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, we'd better keep the peace. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Kemalettin Yilmaz, the MP of Afyonkarahisar who asked for a comment on the farmers' problems. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0006par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. While most of our people in Opium are personally involved in agriculture, most of them work in agricultural-based industries. They contribute seriously to the Turkish economy, both in plant production and in livestock. It is impossible to isolate the opium farmer from all the farmers in Turkey, who continue to produce in the sun, under the soil, in the winter rain, in the snow, in the mud, in the cold, even though he cannot sell what he has produced for its value. Members of parliament, as in all Turkey, in Afyon, entry costs continue to hurt our farmers. Agricultural production is called diesel, medicine, fertilizer, food, seed, irrigation water, and electricity used in watering water. I'm afraid you haven't kept any promises to our farmers to come to power. Unfortunately, our farmers were shaken by another blow, as they were in the naval sector, as they were in the OTV and VAT. The potato he's already produced, he's been delivering his beets for almost the same price for ten years, he can't estimate the amount of food he's tied to a barn for $16-18, even the Fish Association gives him three or four months to live. What did you do when our feeder was moaning under the price of bait and hay? You can't pay off the electricity debts used in the irrigation, but you've got to put a meter on the pumps in the irrigation wells. So you call it producing potatoes, beets, clover, corn, cotton, vegetables. I'm speaking to government officials here: For God's sake, cancel putting a meter on the irrigation wells, or postpone it for three or four years, because our farmer is very miserable. On the other hand, four or five thousand liras with a counter. And there's no meter in the market, I'm afraid, on the black market. I invite you to reconsider. By God, winter doesn't go deep this year, and it's spring in front of us, but unfortunately, the price of food has bent the back of the feeder. I'm speaking to your ruling authorities, for God's sake, stop the meat importing, the importing of living animals because we're manufacturers who will have to cut off animals that give 20 or 30 kilos of milk for nothing. Stop the imports, stop the smuggling so our feeder can breathe. The barber's scissors, the tailor's needle, whatever the fisherman's boat is, it's our farmer's tractor, it's his hand, it's his foot. With the necessary arrangements, tractors must be removed from the foreclosure and the seven-yard clamp. The fuel supports given to tractors are inconsistencies. The four-wheel drive shouldn't be at the same price as the diesel put in the jeep and the diesel on the tractor. This is unacceptable. As in the marine industry, our farmer demands cheap diesel, and I invite you to remember and fulfill your promise to this point. The farmer who can't sell what he's producing can't pay his debts to both agricultural and agricultural loan co-ops, so he's at the gates of the court and the bank. Again, let's give our farmers three years, not too much time. Let's get them out of the bank, debt, interest, foreclosure, even loan sharks, let's give them a chance to market their products, pay off their debts and keep making them, or else it's really bad. At this rate, agriculture ends in Turkey. They knighted the Minister of Agriculture who destroyed our farmer in France. He described it here as an act of pride during the budget talks, Mr. Secretary. It's really weird. And our farmers in opium, our potato maker, our beet maker, our hash producer, our meat producer, our feeder, our milk maker, wheat and barley producer, are preparing to give Mr. Secretary a medal. Let's hope this medal determines what's ahead of us. Mr. Secretary and government officials, I repeat: remove this EV and VAT in electricity used in medicine, fertilizer, seed, agricultural irrigation, for the sake of God. Let's restructure our farmers' debt to agriculture and agriculture. Please, think about putting a meter in the wells again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I repeat in these feelings and thoughts, remember, if the tractor falls, the roof of the barn collapses, we're all under. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0007par0057	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Abdulkerim Gök, MP of Şanlıurfa, who wants to talk about the impact of the civil war in Syria's Şanlıurfa Ceylanpınar and Akçakale districts and the latest developments. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of myself over the impacts of civil war and possible reflections of border cities that have been in Syria for nearly two years. On this occasion, I salute you. Mr. President, when we look back, there are events that we will see, especially as history repeats itself. Why is history repeating itself? In history, the father of Bezar Assad had carried out massacres and brother massacres in Hama, Humus, Aleppo, and Aleppo. Looking back for today, the same father's son is facing civil war, enough to kill his own brother. Our elders, our ancestors, have actually expressed it very well: it doesn't turn on, it doesn't smell of honey. Know that if it smells of oil, it's the butter. We can see that it's the real thing to say right here. We can see that it's the real thing, and that Assad is the real thing. From the moment these events took place in Syria, the valued MPs, the world public opinion, international organisations, have always dropped their agendas, but there is one country, the Republic of Turkey and the Prime Minister, who have never dropped the brother massacre in Syria because we've been doing what is best for us throughout history. Besides being persecuted, we know we've stopped the oppressor, and the policy we've developed is on this axis. And as these events in Syria took place from time to time, our citizens at Akchakale, from Rasulayn, from time to time, were deeply affected by both shrapnel and ricocheted bullets from the place opposite Tel Abyad. However, we know that this incident was not an incident from our own country, but it came as a domestic matter for Syria. It's easy to say that with my friends, Mr. Faruk Çelik and Mr. Faruk Çelik, we are in these districts from the moment it happens, we continue to be there. About a month or two ago, our Prime Minister visited both districts -- Ceylannar, Akchakale -- where they wished our people well. I'd like to point out here, especially among the people of the district, that the MPs don't come here, that the Minister doesn't come here. I want to stress that there's a rumor that there's a manipulative incident going on over there. The people of Ceylanpınar, and the people of Akchakale, in all the events of Şanlıurfa, we stand there and share their pain. When we see it, when we look back, there's something else that suits us: As of now, as of today, we are hosting 25,000 brothers in Ceylannar tent city, 35,000 Syrian brothers in Akchakale tent city. We're paying these costs with an old price like 600 trillion, with a total amount of our own budget. However, as we turn around, international organisations have been there immediately when events took place in northern Iraq, but have remained completely indifferent to Syria until now. We understand that, and we know that because there are no interests in Syria that they desire. In northern Iraq, we know that they have benefits especially in the context of capitalist understanding, but we're developing policies outside of capitalist understanding. Throughout history, what we've shown is that without any ethnic judgment, religion, language, racial context, we show what is appropriate for us. I say that we stand with the oppressed people, in the midst of the nations of the world, in the presence of those who are persecuted, in the presence of those who are persecuted. In particular, our Prime Minister, the AK PARTI, states that he will write the Syrian policy, which our power is running, as soon as possible, at the point of history, right, and once again, I salute the great Parliament and our beloved nation, thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0009par0072	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici, who wants to speak about the problems of Şanlıurfa. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0010par0077	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise. I salute you all. Dear friends, you know, on February 3rd, I wanted to be with them as district deputy at the event held by our Women's Movement in Viranşehir district of Şanlıurfa. However, indeed, despite contact with the Ministry of Interior through our group deputy, three or four days ago, both with the Governor of Urbana, with the deputy governor of Urbana, and with the district chief of police and the district governor, there were no warnings, no stones, no grounds, no gas bombs on our elderly mothers at the time of the speech of Mr. Propertyiye Birtane.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0011par0079	The pressure water...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0010par0080	...with fresh water, really horrible -- even now, even when I say it, I get goose bumps -- we had a violent experience. Those moms fell off the floor. We didn't know what we'd been through, and half an hour, 40 minutes later, with Mr. Co-Chair Pervin Buldan, our deputies, we looked for a meeting with One of the Property and Nursel Aydoğan, what happened, why such progress was made. But, unfortunately, when we're 20 meters apart, we're looking for an answer, we're calling who's in charge, and we're being targeted directly, and there's been a terrible attack on us and Mr. Co-Chair Gültan Kışanak. Here, we invite Mr. Home Secretary once again to take charge of the mission. We don't say anything if the Viceroy is connected to a different location, but if Mr. Interior Ministry does, we expect to be relieved of a certain assignment, as a result of the debrief of the CDHs. We are living in a situation that is no longer bearable. Congressmans, now, I can show you this photo: On July 27, 2012, the son of a member of parliament at the District Police Department of Fourways has lined up the police and is looking for criminals. Now, we have to resist the tyranny of these cops every day. Is such justice possible? I'm asking your consciences. If the MP's son is lining up the police and asking for an account, on the other hand, all the activities of the BDP are silenced by gas and bombs, I can tell you that's what AKP's justice is. Now, again, our Mr. Sevahir Bayındır, has his foot broken in Şırnak. Mr. Pervin Buldan broke his leg on July 14, 2011. Mr. Ayla Akat broke his leg again in Batman. Mr. Ahmet Türk was beaten by a police officer in uniform with a fist attack. Have you ever been able to investigate a single police officer? So I call you to account, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0012par0084	According to Article 60, I promise our first ten friends to enter the system. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it rained about 55 kilograms of rain on the square meter yesterday morning in my constituency district. First of all, certain neighborhoods in our city center were flooded, including Karahı and Pınar neighbourhood. But with the melting of the snow in the mountains and the pouring rain, the Cırklareli Dam was filled as of yesterday, and the extra water surged through the flood of the water that ran through our Babaeski district, and now a large part of our Babaeski district is underwater and flooded. I talked to our governor, our mayors. Of course, our local executives, our governor, are at the scene of the emergency disaster department, but I'd like to address the Ministry of Interior officials who are watching us from here. There's no way to solve this with local resources. At this point, as of now, hundreds of homes in Babaeski are able to enter with their boots on. I'd like to make this clear from here, and I'd like to request that the relevant authorities take precautions.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0012par0090	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0014par0092	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In our village of Omerli, Istanbul's district of Czechmeköy, unfortunately, all of these branches have been removed during the period of your government, even though they have so far had IGDAŞ, TEDAS and all banking branches. At the same time, our people are victims because the city bus campaigns continue until 8:30 p.m. I'd like to propose that this victim be transformed into his former victim, my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0015par0095	Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0016par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. There are 85 judicial workers at the Bursa Gemlik Courthouse, including 15 judges and 70 courthouse officials. In 2009-2012, they serve in an apartment with a total use of 700 square meters, with two separate reports saying that the earthquake was unstable, that it could collapse at any moment, and that it needed to be evacuated immediately. In response to your ministry's sending a paper on finding and moving a suitable location, six months ago, an earthquake-resistant area was announced to your Ministry at the price of $17,000 for drawing projects, but your ministry wants to find a suitable public building or private building on the grounds that it finds too much rent. The Foreign Minister's monthly rent is 50,000 euros in a dwelling, and the Constitutional Court is using the President's $18,000-a-month government vehicle, but 85 public-service judicial workers are facing the risk of earthquakes and the risk of collapse at any time.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0015par0100	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0017par0102	Mr. President, thank you. In order to attract the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the last few days, especially the Iraqi Turkmen city of Kerkuk, I ask that hundreds of people who have lost their lives due to the suicide attacks have come to Allah's mercy, as the government in Turkey has shown interest in Somalia, Palestine, Gaza, and the death of the Turks in Kerkuk. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0018par0105	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0019par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd go to the mountain with a Prime Minister who's been talking to the deputy Prime Minister who's finished talking with him. He's running a Deputy Prime Minister Turkey. It's dangerous, it's desperate. The truth is hidden from the public. Terrorist militias have established, collected taxes, and have been judged. The government has seen this so the negotiations don't break. In accordance with his commitments, the Prime Minister has passed law upon law following PKK demands. Ocalan gave LCD television and gymnastics to the Prime Minister. The prime minister does or does what the terrorist leader wants, then turns around and responds to our expectations. Did the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) surrender, Mr. Prime Minister? Did the bloody murderers leave weapons? Did the PKK release a soldier, a civilian, or my governor? And you make such a judgment! Ocalan has responded to the Prime Minister's expectations, and the Turkish people want to know. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0020par0111	Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0021par0113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At a time when there was all kinds of persecution and corruption -- March 6, 1913 -- to break up unity and brotherhood -- our national poet cries out: Now, O people of the dead, wake up in the morning! Is it too much for you to hear the bell for the smashers? There will be no Arabism and no Turky, so wake up! Hear the divine word of the Prophet. Turkey can't live without Arabs, who says it's crazy to live. The Arab's right eye and the right hand are the Turk's. And spend (in Allah's Cause) alone, for the losers are the losers. There's no caliph, there's no religion. Civilization has long known to you, First he wishes to smash it, then swallow it. While the Albanians will still be an example to you, What's politics in this department? Most of you don't see the wrong way, most of you think, Fire the bandit who guided you! You should hear it from me, I'm Albanian, That's all I can say. This is my wretched home! History must not repeat itself. We have our national poet, who says, "We're keeping our buzz." And we should think about how he would have been devastated if he had imagined the concept of Turkishness at the negotiating table with the baby killer.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0022par0132	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0023par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Artvin Province, Ardanuk-Alekçam-Ardahan is a 62km long road and a 31km section of Artvin Province is located within the borders of Ardançuç. This road work, which began in 1993, is still under way. In 2009, Mr. Metin Arifağaoğlu's motion to ask the ministry in the 23rd term, Mr. Minister stated that the relevant path would be completed in 2009, and the question motion submitted by me in December 2011 was scheduled to be completed in accordance with the project of Ardanuk-Alekchem on 13 February 2012. Eight and a half kilometers of the road has just been tendered. When will this unresolvedness come to an end that turns into a snake story and coincides with a period of about 20 years? What are the reasons why the road has been delayed so long? When will these delays result in the persecution of all locals? All Artvinians and Ardanuchs follow this path closely. Thank you, Your Honor, for the honors of the House.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0024par0139	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0025par0141	Mr. President, yesterday I met with over 20 prisoners during a visit to Mehmet Haberal, as he called it, the Silivri torture house. Then We will bring to light the injustices they suffered. Mr. Mustafa Balbay and Mr. Mehmet Haberal have asked me to bring up the problems of the guards of the execution. The guards say we wear uniforms like cops, like soldiers. Police and soldiers have the right to wear down, we have no right to wear down. There is no way to work hard in prison and not wear down. They want their right to wear out. Again, on New Year's Eve, the only people who work overtime at the holidays and don't charge overtime are death guards. Execution officers are the most despised officers. Because the linens they're wearing have changed their shirts, and now, when the T-shirts are washed, unfortunately, two sizes are getting smaller. They don't have irons in their pants, the shoes they wear are the cutest...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0026par0147	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0027par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been revealed that some villages have been re-labeled as Turk-Kurt, Alevi-Sunni in Çorrum, on the website of the Editor-in-Chief of Religious Affairs on the Internet and on the website of the Internet today, before the results of the tagging in Tunceli province of Hozat in the past months have been cleared. In this period of especially need for peace and tolerance, I urge authorities to be more sensitive at the point when such chips are no longer available. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0028par0152	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0029par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Our arrested MP, Mr. Selma Irmak, the father of our Şırnak MP, is still under arrest in Diyarbakır E-type Prison. We offer God's mercy to the deceased, and our condolences to all his family and relatives, especially Selma River. We're also critical of the position of the Presidential Court. Because there's usually an application from the Presidential Court to address the Parliamentary General Assembly when any of the MPs' first-degree relatives die. For some reason, we think we're being discriminated against when it comes to BDP MPs. That's why we criticize your attitude. We also believe that there is still a great shadow of shame on this House about the arrested MPs. We call upon the House to make legal arrangements for the MPs who are currently under arrest.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit01spe0030par0158	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The meeting of the General Assembly of the European Union's Karma Parliamentary Commission was held on 14-15 February 2013 at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers 23/01/2013 date and Decision 39. The meeting will be held in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it will be presented to the General Assembly's information as required by Article 33620 of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the TBM Foreign Affairs Commission. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. 5/2/2013 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly To begin in 1990, I respectfully announce the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Subsections in order to investigate murders that have been going on up until now known as "innocent killings." After 1990, the killings, which have been identified as political quality, have begun. Many journalists, intellectuals, writers, businessmen, and many more of our citizens have been massacred as a result of the murders committed by certain power centers. These murders also targeted members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which resulted in the murder of Congressman Mehmet Sincar. The silence scandal, and then the Shemdinite incident, revealed the existence of connections to the state forces that led to these murders, but these events were not researched enough, the events were abandoned as they were. The silence was covered up, and the results of the investigation were censored and made public. The report of the research commission set up within the TBM to investigate the Şemdinli incident has been kept confidential, not disclosed to the public. The government and the government's position has allowed unsolved murders to continue. In our country, murders are still being committed by the forces left in darkness, and our most recent victim to these murders is the valued journalist-writer Hrant Dink. It has not been investigated enough, so it has been going on for many years and thousands of our citizens have been massacred in this way, but there have been superficial and show-of-the-art trials, and there has been no justice for the unsolved murders in our country. In dozens of cases taken to the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey has been sentenced to hundreds of thousands of euros in financial compensation. However, this is just the financial cost of our country's unsolved killings. However, our country pays the ultimate price by experiencing more pain and chaos with these killings. In the time when we desperately need democratisation, social peace and brotherly life, the fact that the murders still remain in the country's history of the tens of thousands have not been illuminated, makes brotherly life, democratisation, and social peace impossible. Without the dark history of our country's killings lit up, this country will not be a country that lives safely for us, for millions of citizens, and for our children. And our country will be condemned to live under the shadow and fear of dark forces. For a bright future, history of the country must be illuminated by unsolved murders. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the main responsibility on this issue. The latest operation, Ergenekon, is a positive development that reveals many dark connections and offers a historic opportunity for the state to reveal its forces in illegal activities and those responsible for the unsolved political murders. As a matter of fact, that's what the connections reveal. In this very process, the investigation of the power centers and connections that have committed these murders by our Parliament is a historical imperative, but it will benefit greatly from the light of events. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly T.C. In order to take effective measures in the new type and fraud of the 21st century and to examine it in all its dimensions, we propose the opening and meeting of the Constitution under Article 98-99 and Article 104 of the Civil Code. The use of a person's personal identity information without his or her own knowledge and permission is against the rights of the person according to the Constitution and the law. T.C. The identity code is shared in taxes, health care, education, online, banking, all companies, buying goods and services. T.C. The person's name, last name, date of birth can be accessed by his number. The important thing is that with every new information, the access to other personal information from another institution's website destroys security, creates danger. The more the use of the Internet becomes common, the more they complain. T.C. Citizens who choose online shopping on condition of their number react while T.C. Asking for his number makes for a question mark on the minds. Most of the time, T.C. The fact that they're asked for her number makes their parents nervous. Children today's information may cause them great trouble in the future. T.C. Its number is a long-standing and increasingly important information. T.C. Special information, such as the number, must be prevented from being asked through the Internet, and families and children should be informed about it. There may be websites based solely on collecting identity information. It's not known how to use this information over the years. The use of a person's personal identity information without their own knowledge or permission, even when delivering cargo, T.C. It's a thought to ask for his number. The company's cargo, the company's stamp, and those who don't think it's enough to get a last name, T.C. No. He wants to. Many citizens face phone banking and bank calls: "T.C. When you dial your number, you'll be able to process it faster." Citing that the new application of banks may be harmful to security, citizens point out that there have been many frauds with a citizenship number. "We don't want to give out personal information on the phone. With the new app, the bank gives us a citizenship number whether we're bank customers or not. You'll be served faster if you touch it. T.C. They're forcing us to give them our number because when they don't, they keep them on the phone too long. T.C.'s everywhere. His number is requested, and soon everyone will know his citizenship numbers. Personal information is not required for membership. Citizens are also troubled by the open lines that open their names without their knowledge. Because of these lines, the last victimities of the non-employee citizens are that their identity information and the lines to their names come to their door with billy bills. It's not easy for a citizen to be locked up for years in private courts without question through these phone calls through covert wiretap investigations. The address of those who are under 18 years of age and cannot get a gsm line is open. A GSM operator goes to the dealership with his ID info to get a call for him, and he's on fire with a photocopy of his birth certificate. Well, that's when the real complaint begins. His permission, his knowledge, without his signature, makes another copy of his identity photocopy, and turns it into an ordinary event to be used with the seal of the original, the dealership code/casche, and one invoice line signed by the dealership official. Even if the signature, mother's maiden name, and address don't belong to you, the debt, the foreclosure, the debt. In bank transactions, fraud, disclosure of all information from the chieftain's records, security deficit in all transactions from e-judgment to e-devlete faces the new type of crime of the 21st century and the citizen of the 21st century. T.C. The safe use of the ID number and information would be useful to open a parliamentary investigation to prevent crimes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine measures to be taken, including legal arrangements for the problems of the province of Yozgat, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 98, 104, 105 of the Constitution, and 105 of the Constitution. [[Yozgat]] [[İzmir]] [[Kütahya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] 7) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Ankara]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 15) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Yozgat is a province in the heart of Anatolia that weighs heavily on agricultural potential and agricultural production. In our province, most of our people work in agriculture, they earn their living in agriculture. However, our province still has not been transferred to watery agriculture for much of its territory. Our farmers live in great distress. They were unable to pay their debt to the Agriculture Bank and other banks, agricultural loans co-ops, TEDAS. While Yozgat is supposed to be in a geographical position with an advantage, he is ranked 66, even in the ranking of "regularity." For a city in the center of Asia Minor, this ranking is far behind what should be. In terms of deposit accounts in banks, Yozgat's capital savings average is well below the Turkish average. Tourism in our province is one of the most backward sectors. The stock savings and low flow prevent this sector from developing. As there is no public investment in Yozgat to promote employment and prosperity, existing factories are closed one by one. According to the Turkish Statistical Agency (TİK) data, Yozgat is among the three most emigrated provinces in our country. Slowing rate of migration policies must be quickly activated in both macro and microplans. The urbanisation rate for Yozgat is far below the Turkish average. The lowness of urbanization is actually the basis for many problems. The University of Bozok in our province has many problems. Yozgat is ranked 67 in the overall ranking of the provinces of our country, 63 in the economy, 61 in education, 68 in health. The number of green cards that are considered one of the greatest indicators of poverty and are given for the use of health services for people without social security is quite large in the province of Yozgat. The fact that 78,000 people still have green cards in Yozgat, where the number of active insurance is 85,000, is still a sign of poverty. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation must be launched to ensure that the issue is resolved and that the necessary measures are taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. There's another review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek and his delegation will visit Pakistan to participate in the Parliamentary Assembly of Economic Co-operation, which will be held in Islamabad from 10 February 2013, and will be presented under the 9th Amendment of Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman I submit to your votes, I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 61st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... It's agreed, there's enough to decide. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (05/02/2013), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 10 October 2012, the group was awarded 1589 rows by Idris Baluken, deputy chairman of the Bingöl MP Group. After the incident in Akchakale, which killed five people, various allegations of armed aid to Syrian dissidents on the Turkish border and a joint collection of Turkey's parliamentary research proposals to be submitted to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to investigate how security was provided at the Hatay border, were suggested to be read in the same session Tuesday (05/02/2013). In favour of the group's proposal for Peace and Democracy, the first statement is from Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0031par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a commitment to the research motion that we've made regarding what happened on the Syrian border. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, we've made countless speeches from this bench about Syrian policy; we've made numerous attempts to get you back from the dangerous policies that are wrong, with questions, with parliamentary research proposals, from the mistakes we've sensed, but so far, unfortunately, you have not stepped back from the deep policies of the war in Syria and the Middle East. I'm not going to go back into the details of this, but we think it's important that we do a briefing on what happened here in what we call Syria Kurdistan, and that the Assembly set up a research commission on this matter, and that's why we submitted it to the General Assembly today. As you know, after the internal turmoil in Syria began, especially in July of last year, the Kurds and the people who lived together in the same geography announced to the world that they would have power over their own governance processes in their own territory. In doing so, no massacre has ever run a process that shows the bitter face of any war. They said that after that day, after July, the Kurds and the people they shared the same geography with were not cut off from the plots and attacks against Rojava, after this declaration of will. In particular, we bear witness, regretfully, that fighting and armed attacks that began in November and were increasingly violent have continued to continue in recent days. All armed groups, armed gangs, who have been involved in the conflict during the past three months in Serekaniya, have been using Turkey's border to get all kinds of logistical support from Turkey to go in there and fight the Kurds and other peoples and bring the painful paintings of war to our face. In all the initiatives we've made in the region, we know that Turkey's borders are closed to Kurds, but they're open to these gang groups all the way to the end, that they've had all the treatments done at Ceylanpınar State Hospital after they've been in combat, and that they've buried their bodies in Uruguay, or buried them on the other side of the border after they've gone through various procedures here, and that they've also provided all kinds of logistic support by Turkey as a soldier. Perhaps the Parliamentary General Assembly would have been accurate on this matter if it had actually reflected its observations. Look, three months ago, these gang attacks, especially through El Nusra and El Damascus groups -- then they continue under different names of the United States, after entering the lists of European countries' terrorist organizations in the international arena. Change of names doesn't change the nature of the attacks as terrorists. Therefore, if there is an attack on Kurds, Armenians, Assyrians, Suryans, Nasturis, non-Muslims, Arabs, if there is a terrorist attack, it is not possible to mask the nature of this attack by changing the name of the organisations. The dangerous approach to this brings with it more severe problems in the region every day. A heavy embargo against Rojava, a humanitarian embargo, began in November, as well as the gang attacks. On the one hand, the gang attacks, the economic embargo, had only one goal: to break the will of the Kurds in Rojava, to bring the gains back completely. When we look at the actors of this embargo, we see a more pathetic picture. On one hand, we're talking about the Baas regime, which you call a murderer, the Free Syrian Army, which is unknown on the other side, and a heavy embargo that Turkey has put together in Kurdish regions. With the most basic human needs from food aid to medical aid, diapers to child food, Rojava, Kurds were blocked by you, border crossings were not opened. Just a few months ago, for Gaza, for the embargo against Gaza, for the right to raise the world up, for sending ships overseas, for the memory of those who are fresh, for the people who are brothers, there's no explanation for the embargo that you've applied to this embargo, which I would like to remind you that you're also in the same reflexes as the Baas regime, which you've often criticised in many dirty conspiracies, in which you've imposed war policies. In particular, we respect the will of the peoples in Syria, and in Syria we stand behind whatever the people decide of their own will. One government, who says, "When it comes to Kurds, doesn't know this will at all; rather, it tries to surrender this will through gang attacks and economic embargos." Therefore, you must return to Syria, from your policies in Rojava, from dangerous policies. The government has to come up with a policy about these gang attacks and about these embargos that will now know the direction of the government. Look, the government's acquainted NGOs are providing humanitarian aid all over Syria. The AKP MP, who was just speaking here, also explained the size of the humanitarian aid sent to Syria. Why turn these numbers into embargoes when it comes to Kurds and Rojava? NGOs in Turkey are campaigning in Friday's borders to provide assistance to different regions of Syria. We don't call it anything, that's what's supposed to happen, but when it comes to Rojava and the Kurds, we believe that this segregation approach must be abandoned. What happened in Syria is a human drama, a tragedy. There is a Baas regime in Syria that now has its back on China, Russia, Iran, Iraq, Shia administration, Hezbollah, and again on America, on Europe, on Qata, on Saudi Arabia, on Turkey, but there is a third option that has no international support. The Kurds have no international power to hold their backs except for their own self-power, the brothers who share the same geography. If you look at this picture, even from the window of human rights, from the window of democracy, from the window of responsibility to history, we think you'll understand how wrong the policy here is. Precious MPs, especially inside and in the Middle East, making peace with four parts of Kurds is the only way Turkey will win. Acting with gangs does not win this country, but acting with Kurds and carrying this process with a peace process in the Middle East can make the country a major regional actor, a major regional force in the Middle East; otherwise, you cannot establish security by placing antibody policies or Patriots on the border. We, on the contrary, believe that these practices are practices that bring full danger to our safety. We'd like to call the Foreign Minister and the government officials: Do you know who these gangs are? Are there elements among the Syrian people, Kurds, gangs? Is it appropriate for a state to cooperate with these gangs, which have been collected from right to left with money and used by a bunch of paid gang structures to use international imperial plans? In particular, I've never seen these gang members... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Shouldn't it be explained by you which supports he received? In Syria, we feel that we need to get back from this error as soon as possible. We believe that talks with the High Kurdish Council, which reflects the will of the Syrian Kurds, will give this country a common ground with all the peoples who are now representing the peoples' parliaments in Syria. Therefore, we expect this motion to be evaluated and accepted by the General Assembly for such a study. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0032par0036	Thank you. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Mr. Şayk Uçük. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0033par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect, sir. Now, this Syrian issue, this Assad regime, which is said to fall down in three months, is supposed to be unaccounted for, and the Syrian issue, which Turkey has sunk down its throat, still seems to occupy our agenda and will keep it busy for even longer. First of all, the unaccountable points, the unpredictableness of this Syrian issue... and today we believe that the first six border counties, including Hatay, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Kilis, Gaziantep, Şırnak, have suffered the first six border states... and, in fact, the farmer in terms of livestock, Konya Karapınar. What did you do, Mr. Lawmakers? What did the government do? We still don't think you've been able to identify, identify, and accept the errors of the Syrian issue, putting the hat in front of you. So, in order to help Syria's internal issue, the first thing to be cut off from relations and a hostile attitude was that it was true against Syria, and how true it was, it needed to be discussed. We can't claim it's true, and neither can any of you. If that's true, you haven't gotten two inches in almost two years. In Syria, the place we agreed to stop violating human rights, aside from being interrupted, continued to increase, you could not prevent it, nor could you get a foot away from the collapse of the Assad regime, nor could you contribute to Turkey's prestige in the Middle East. On the contrary, Turkey's prestige in the Middle East is rapidly wearing off over time. What did we do? Were you able to calculate the economic cost of the crisis? I mean, first of all, if you set up a policy, a foreign policy at the point of this regime going away in three months, you couldn't calculate the economic cost in advance. The 3,500 exporters were exporting to Syria and Syria and the Middle East, before the crisis started, and today the number of the companies has fallen to the 10. Did you help the farmer in Hatay, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Gaziantep, Kilis, Şırnak, and the farmer in Şırnak? At the same time, have you been able to provide the slightest assistance to the merchants of Hatay, the merchants of Hatay, and the merchants of other provinces, who have linked their commercial future to relations with Syria, and who have developed their trade with Syria, but who have been cut down like knives? Has this powerful government -- the 16th economic size of the world -- the government that has made Turkey the 16th largest economy in the world -- taken the slightest measure? What is the state of the movers today who own a truck with around 4,000 trucks -- second truck fleet after Istanbul? Aren't you curious?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0034par0047	We're thinking.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0033par0048	If you do, you'll take your precautions, my dear Regent.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0034par0049	We'll talk soon.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0033par0050	You'll tell us later, but don't tell us that as the Justice and Development Party of Alexander and Mersin, we've increased their expeditions - probably to tell you about it. Don't say that, it's much better if you talk to the movers. It also raised the costs, and they're in a lot of trouble right now.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0035par0051	Talk about Adana.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0033par0052	Of course, Adana is also in great straits, sir. You didn't calculate the internal cost of the crisis, the internal cost of domestic political costs, and you didn't calculate the internal political cost of the crisis, so you've already presented it to the Turkish nation in the event of Alevi-Sunni, and then it's become very different, and you're going to relate it to the millions of Flames that live in us, and I don't know how you're going to explain how this is going to contribute negatively to Turkish politics, the Turkish nation. Dear friends, have you been able to calculate the external cost of the crisis -- Iran with Russia and Iraq -- and these are all our neighbors -- have you been able to calculate the cost? In Iraq, you have a Hashimi of capital. So on the one hand, we maintain a relationship with the territorial integrity of Iraq, by recognizing the territorial integrity of the land and by supporting it at the same time, as if we accept the territorial integrity of Iraq internationally, but on the other hand, we have the biggest problems because of Iraq, Syria, and Hashimi. Our energy minister can't get into Iraq. Where we've come from, where we've come from! Mr. Prime Minister says we've come to these situations today, where from where to where to? That's where the Turkmen live. At the beginning of the events, they had not entered into the internal issue of Syria, but somehow the Turkmen were brought into it. It is incompatible with my understanding of the state to explain how this happened on the stand, but the government's administrators know exactly how it happened. You've brought in the Turkmen in the Bayır region, in the Bucak region -- in fact not very capable of fighting -- and today, the Turkmen are suffering a great deal, suffering a great deal. It's also a P.Y.D. area, which is also a P.D. area next door to my province, and it's a P.D.D. area next door to my village. A part of our country has been separated under the guise of democratic autonomy, under the guise of the federation, under the guise of peace of the peoples, and while we were trying to prevent it, we found a second district right under our noses, and today, the posters of the terrorist leader of the Imran have been hung as the state leader of the region. Were there any of these issues, Mr. Lawmakers, until Syria and I went into crisis? But you're not talking to the opposition, you're doing a project, and you're saying it's the right project. You don't share anything with the opposition, and then, just like in this Syrian policy, whoever, what political, what idea man, what intellectual, what author who thinks of Turkey's interests, which you're doing wrong, you're going to lead the country into chaos. When he says, "It will cost us a great deal. You turn to him and accuse him of Baasm, even though he does not deserve it. What do we know, what do we have to do with Baas? We're looking out for the interests of the Turkish nation, we're looking out for the interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey, and we're actually looking out for the interests of your government naturally, therefore. Finally, you entered a trial called the peace project. You made the baby killer of the Imran a peace ambassador. Just as in this matter, you want blood, you want blood, you want mothers to keep crying. It's not the right thing to do. We're defending the rights of the nation. But today, from here, on this occasion, I would like to say that we, the Turkish nation, as nationalists, will continue to defend their rights on everything, on the outside and on the inside. That's the job that the nation has given us, and we invite many associations to defend the rights of the nationalists, the NGOs, the Human Rights Association, the AZLUMDER. Now, with compassion and conscience, the nationalists are now accused of dividing, dividing, separating this nation by the pressure of the media at which they stand at the point of defending their rights -- outside and internal pressure -- every day, in one way or another -- in another way or another -- in this view, we're going to continue with these beliefs and our ideals. We'll continue to trouble whoever and whatever mentality wants to tear this country apart as long as the world stops. I give you all my regards and love.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0036par0060	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. In favor of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Istanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0037par0064	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Governments are responsible for providing security inside and outside. But our country, of course, had land mines on our Syrian border to ensure border security, but who should we give these minefields to at that time, with a tender and so on... there's nothing wrong with Syria, there's no problem with security. At the time, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Assad said, Mr. Prime Minister, Assad, my brother, said, "They took a family vacation with Mr. Prime Minister's brother Assad. They had a joint cabinet meeting with Mr. Prime Minister's brother Assad. At that time, Mr. Prime Minister was with his brother Esed. Then he changed his name, he said, "Esad.," he said, according to time and location, Mr. Prime Minister and Your Honor were constantly changing names. What did they do? They also played in Gaziantep. Business is flowing, it's comfortable. They ask the citizen: "Are you satisfied? " Everyone is satisfied. Where a revelation came from in one night, Mr. Prime Minister's brother Assad. His relationship with the Prime Minister's brother was broken, and what happened? The mine was being cleared in that area, sir, the visas had been lifted in the area, the trade was going well, and overnight that trade was all over. Hasmane said that the regime in Syria must be changed. But, of course, with whom did he make this decision, with whom did the Council of Ministers -- our ministers -- have such an argument here -- that's why this happened, who was in this suggestion, who was in it, and who was in it we didn't understand. At least, where did such a 360-degree political transformation come from? While all this was happening, the mine removal was on the agenda, and now the Patriots came instead. Now, as the Patriots arrive, our Minister is very, very relevant, very important. Now, about the Patriots that came in, as far as we know, these Patriots -- if it's not false information, I read in the press -- had a range of 80 kilometers. Where are the Patriots founded, Mr. Secretary? It was founded in Adana, and was built in Malatiah, and built in Kahramanmarash. What was the purpose of the Patriots coming to Turkey? It was to ensure the safety of our Turkish citizen. What do these Patriots do? If there's a 50km range from land to air, within a 50km range, where does it cover when we draw the diameter, where does it secure?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0038par0068	New York and Washington.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0037par0069	Adana is providing security for İncirlik Base, as far as I know, Mr. Secretary. Who's there at Ficirlik Base? I commend you to the Council and to the people who listen to us at the head of their television. Another 50 miles in that circle -- who is there -- if we take Kahramanmarash as a compass, who's left? The U.S. missile shield in Figrlik and Malatya remains. So, what is Malatya guarding? Still, Patriot, who was placed in Malatya, protects the Orbukik, where the U.S. missile was put in Malatya. Well, shouldn't you be asking? I urge you to give the public, then, what is the range of these Patriots - accurate, revealing information. In fact, as far as I know, we have a friend in the military, a Lieutenant General, who lives in the front. Yeah, it's a victory sign here, too, good. While his colleagues were currently in prison, you were not giving our friends the sign of victory at that time. I wish you'd given them that sign of victory when you sent them away, to save them. I mean, I want her, too, especially from you. Two, two, now...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0039par0073	He picked on me from the rank.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0037par0074	He'll fix it, my dear friend, if I've made a pass at him.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0040par0075	Not the Brigadier General, the Major General.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0037par0076	In fact, in that indictment, our congressman's name is mentioned.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0041par0077	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0037par0078	I mean, why wasn't this friend filed in that indictment? I don't know if he would've listened to us in the front row today if he hadn't been an AKP MP. Now, in that sense, these Patriots are very important. So the Ataturk Dam in Şanlıurfa, our citizens in Mardin, our citizens in Urbana, the citizens in Gaziantep, Hatay, Adana, the lives of these people, we have to protect our citizens first, Mr. Minister, Patriot, or do we have to protect American bases? I'd like to ask the Minister to hand over this information to the House, which is very important in this sense. Let's...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0042par0080	Your time is up, Mr. Mahmut. Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0037par0081	There's been a mistake.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0043par0082	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0037par0083	Sir, the AKP can't shut us down because we have a very independent, democratic Congress Speaker, so we're celebrating him. Turkey's foreign policy, political power, is continuing on the cult, so I'm saying this in particular, on religion. Again in the press and... there are 24 ministries in Syria as far as we can see. Three of the 24 ministries are Alevi, two ministers Christian, and 19 ministers Sunni. So even if the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers in Syria, is looking at this list, it will clearly show how wrong the religious way of view of foreign policy is, how wrong it is, how wrong it is. Now, the schools have been vacationed for a long time because of bullets and bombs in both Ceylanpınar district and Akçakale district of Şanlıurfa Province of Şanlıurfa province concerning this border security. Most of their jobs have been shut down. Five of our citizens have been killed in Akçakale County. And at that time, our Muğla MP, who had no security in Akçakkale district of Şanlıurfa, was unable to secure the security of our citizens, as a result of that incident. As a result, at this stage, both economically and in terms of human rights, our people are victims, our people are victims, our people are victims. A reasonable salary must be paid at a reasonable level that can provide for our citizens who live on the border, since border security cannot provide political power at that border. Mr. Akçakalam, of course, has made an offer to the public as a result of the government's proposals, to pay $400 a month, sir, to leave this place. But that $400 would be a victim of our people in Akchakale. Akchakale, our people, Ceylanpınar, ask you this: Whatever rights you give refugees, whatever freedoms you give them, they want to take advantage of the same conditions. The view we're looking at, the government can't provide border security in this regard. So, if you can't provide this border security, you can't provide our internal problems, our internal security, what are you doing in Syria? Now, when we look at the issue from both the Constitution's point of view, it's also a cause of war to get involved in a country's internal problem, to have hostile feelings, and it's also a felony under Article 306 of the Turkish Penal Code. In this sense, the Prime Minister, who is the leader of the political government and the Prime Minister, has left us no neighbors at the time he says. The neighbor needs the ashes of the neighbor, needs the neighbor at every stage, and the process that we have been the worst with our neighbors since the republic was founded has been in this eleven-year period of power, when the AKP was in power. I would like to ask that the political power, please, consider these judgmental criticisms, to give up these hostile attitudes and salute all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0044par0093	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0045par0094	Mr. President, I demand word.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0044par0095	Sir?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0045par0096	Mr. Speaker has used my name to taunt me, and I demand your word.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0046par0097	Right.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0044par0098	Well, I'll have them bring it by then, because I couldn't watch it, so I'll see if there's any bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0046par0099	I admit it, I teased him. I didn't use your name.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0047par0100	How'd he pick on you, sir? Let's find out.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0046par0101	Honestly, Mr. President, I picked on you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0048par0102	All right, then.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0047par0103	Sir, what did he say?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0048par0104	No, the Orator said I was, too. If he said I was, I was. We were too busy with the water, so I couldn't follow. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0108	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... Mr. Mahmut Tanal, now, let's leave the deployment of Patriot missiles to the soldiers, so please don't interfere in matters we don't understand.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0050par0111	It's a paramilitary understanding, Mr. Paşa! That's not understanding!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0112	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0051par0113	Is that an understanding?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0114	Now, wait a minute, friend, listen up. Now, in the air defense of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0051par0116	Then what are you doing in politics? Go deal with the Patriots! Is that an understanding?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0117	You too, Mr. Muharrem, will you?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0051par0118	But you say so.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0119	Wait a minute, let me tell you, just hear me out.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0051par0120	You know how the congressman gives his opinion on everything?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0121	Yeah, okay. So we can talk about things we know. That's what I want to tell you. Now, according to our laws, the General Staff is responsible for the air defence of the Republic of Turkey, and our Chief of Staff has handed it over to the Air Force Commander. The air defence of the Republic of Turkey and its airspace is done today with what we call our F16 hunting planes, the developed missiles we call the Improving HAWK, and what we call air defence weapons. We have radar systems monitoring Turkish airspace.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0052par0123	The corporals will use them. There are no officers left.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0124	Our airspace east of the Sinop-Mersin line is followed by the 2nd Unified Air Operations Centre in Diyarbakır, and the West by the 1st United Air Operations Centre in Eskişehir. So the only goal of the arrival of the Patriots here is that because Syria has a ballistic missile, the Patriots are stationed near our cities to prevent damage to our cities such as Adana, Gaziantep, Diyarbakir. Air defense has the principles of deployment of air defence systems while deploying weapons systems or thinking about air defences.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0053par0125	What's the range, what's the range?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0126	Brother, the range doesn't matter...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0053par0127	How is it not important?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0128	It's set up to protect cities. Of course it doesn't make sense. I'm a brother who grew up in this business for 38 years, a jet pilot, an F-16 pilot; okay, please trust me. The goal here is to protect our cities like Adana, Gaziantep, Kahramanmarash, Diyarbakir from ballistic missiles.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0054par0131	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0055par0132	Who's in command, and who's in command?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0133	Mr. President, they've taken my time.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0054par0134	No, I can't. You were supposed to use two minutes instead of two.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0049par0135	But our friend...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0056par0136	Mr. President, he teased me...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0054par0137	Here you go. Now, somebody sit down, somebody come in, and then you fight. No, I don't.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0057par0139	Let me ask you something. Can you get in there, both as a general of this country and as a congressman now?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0058par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0054par0141	Maybe, and you, as a congressman, as a politician, wouldn't have come to those things.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0058par0142	This is the signal of a major general.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0059par0143	That is the sign of the PKK. Does that sign suit you?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0058par0144	It looks good, it looks good...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0060par0145	It doesn't suit you either, Mahmoud Tanal. It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit him. It's a sign of victory.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0061par0146	Would you be able to enter that sphere as a deputy? Come on, let's go together.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0062par0147	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0063par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the speaker said, "Sir, you're not soldiers, why are you doing this?" Now, you're a soldier, yes, so why didn't you tell the public how many kilometers are in range here, why are you hiding it from the public? The Secretary of Defense is here. You're protecting the U.S. Base in Figrlik, with the range set here, and the US Base in Orbukik. Come here with the courage to protect our citizen -- in a scientific sense -- say that these Patriots have a distance of 500 kilometers, a distance of 1,000 kilometers. Let me apologize to you. So 50 miles; that's the information I've been given, the information I've been researching. In this sense, these Patriots, unfortunately, are also intended to protect America's bases in Turkey, not to protect the citizen; one. Second: Yes, we need to protect the law of our citizens, our government, our people. Isn't Patriot a weapon of war here, if it explodes in its place, without being thrown out? It's a weapon of war. Shouldn't the Constitution be brought to parliament under Article 92? I do. Why didn't you bring it, why didn't you bring it? I'm picking on the Minister now, and I hope he wants to talk. Sir, in accordance with our customs so far, the House has not made such a decision. As the Constitution stands still, the House has its own unique conclusion that if there's a gap in one thing, there's a default. There's no gap in our subject. Germany is making decisions in its own Assembly, other countries are making decisions in its own parliament, but Turkey is not making decisions in the Grand National Assembly, in its own Assembly. In that sense, the government, indeed, does not fear the Parliament or trust its own MPs. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0064par0153	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0065par0154	He's got a say again.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0064par0155	No, he's not born anymore.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0065par0156	He was born.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0064par0157	He told the Minister, and he said...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0066par0158	He was born to the minister.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0064par0159	I mean, look, guys, someone's being named, come on. After that, it wasn't worth it, it wasn't worth it; it wasn't worth it. I've watched this carefully, there's no such thing. Against the Peace and Democracy Party proposal, Mr. Adem Yeşildal, Hatay MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0166	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, the lawmakers who had spoken before me about this motion made it clear that their group had a point of view of the event, frankly, of the differences in mentality with the AK PARTY Group. But I'm going to stress a few things, and I'm going to try to express how we stand in the right place, the difference of perspective between our point of view and the opposition's perspective, which our nation appreciates. To start with the latest orator, during the time of our governments here, he tried to express in his own way the contradictions between the position at the beginning and the point where we stopped. Of course, at that time, the AK PARTY... and while I'm expressing it, I'd like to point out that it actually contradicts its own sentences, the Syrian policy that came from the time of my brother Assad. Of course, this is an important indication of how Turkey was able to take care of Syria and the Syrian people at the time -- when all the dominant forces mentioned today were watching politics over Syria. As if Turkey had stood up for itself, kept Syria under guard, lived deeply in friendship with Syria, and gave advice and advice to Syria in its lifetime. No one's ever defended the Baas regime here. The Syrian people's demands for the change of the system there -- I draw the bottom -- have expressed that the administration there could no longer be insensitive -- and that Turkey, before reaching that point, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the President of Syria -- would not take the slightest step towards meeting the demands of the people there, and that the demand of the people who started with the Arab Spring would be met by artillery in Syria, and that we would not hesitate to remain in Syria before it came to that point, before our Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the President, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people who started there, the Syrian government, the Syrian government, the Syrian government, the Syrian government, the Syrian government, and the Syrian government, the Syrian government, the Syrian government.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0068par0170	Why didn't we do it in Qatar and Arabia?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0171	So here's the policy of the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY government, which actually suits our glorious history, my friends, and I want you to understand that we are on the side of the truth, we are on the side of the truth, we are on the side of the wrong, we are on the side of the wrong, we are clear and clear. When it's wrong, if it's our father's son, if it's our eyeball, he'll say it's wrong...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0068par0172	Is it true in Qatar and Arabia, sir?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0173	...beside the oppressed, stand against the tyrant, I want you to know that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, the speaker before him said that Turkey had suffered a lot of damage, its trade had been damaged, the shipping sector was having problems. And as the AK PARTI, our view here is clear and clear -- in an environment where hundreds of thousands of people have to leave their country, in the open, in the open, in the cold, in an environment where they're hurt, in an environment where they're subjected to gun violence -- if you look at the history of the gun -- you'll see a lot of these examples -- if we give humanitarian aid here, if we welcome the people who are sheltering us, how much damage Turkey will do to those who are being persecuted, how much damage will its trade, if it's damaged agriculture, if it's too expensive, if it's too much cost too much, if it's too much of an economic cost. We're looking at it in a completely human dimension, so let me be clear. According to the developments, of course, our government has taken significant steps to compensate for the damage done by the border counties from this conflict environment there. We've also expressed that we don't agree that nothing has been done here, that none of the sectors have been sensitive to the problem there. Yes, Hatay is the second largest fleet since Istanbul. The shipping industry is one of the most important sectors that constitutes the backbone of our trade, but very important measures have been taken. Loud and clear, the shipping industry, NGOs, their organizations, has had support beyond their demands. We are constantly in Hatay, where we are in dialogue with our shipping industry and with our farmers and with our tradesmen. The cost increase from Ro-Ro was sufficient if $600-700 was supported. Friends, with his work, our government has not only started the ro-ro flights from Mersin and Alexander, but has provided a thousand dollars for truckers, and this support continues. Yes, right now, right next to us, there's an extraordinary situation at our border. There are civilians being shot at, gunned down there. We're talking about a geography where 70,000 people were murdered and killed. Of course, here's what I'm going to say to the Peace and Democracy Party, who's making the group proposal, and I'm going to say it loud and clear.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0069par0180	What?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0181	Here, they've made a group of suggestions based on the phrases written in the newspapers, in the headlines, in the newspapers. I am, except for the MPs of Hatay's Peace and Democracy Party -- they are elected from Hatay, but there are MPs from other provinces who visit Hatay -- they visit dorms at the university; they visit their own organizations, their organisations. That's all I need. We have a famous country place, Cadet. They are entertained in the evenings, and they eat and drink in the evenings. And these are, of course, things that can be done when you go with one, but I think it would be better if the BDP MPs, while they've already gone to Hatay, wanted to see the situation in the camps, see the human drama that happened there in the border area and see it live and make a motion to it. Friends, such newspaper clippings are not recommended through news that has previously been highlighted by various groups. Look, our Human Rights Commission launched a review of the visit by Republican People's Party MPs to the village of Apadun on September 3,4 and 5th. There's a very detailed report on that place, and I'm not going to tell you the details from here and drown you. All of the issues here are asparagas news reports, such as weapons assistance -- weapons assistance from ambulances, etc. -- in the camps where they're trained with weapons, and so on. These are false reports that have been rebutted and proved with evidence. So, it's not because of the false news -- it could be that there's been a lack of steps -- that we can go and find the council agenda in place and...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0070par0183	Did they give you a chance to study in place, brother?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0184	I think it would be more accurate, more serious, if they expressed it through concrete things here. My dear brothers, as a result, I want to get to this point: of course, the AK PARTI government has taken this attitude regarding Syria, assuming it will fall in three months. They call it mercy, mercy! Our basis there is this: Is it possible for a government to remain in power without the support of its people?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0070par0186	How do you know?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0187	Clearly, hundreds of thousands of people have left their countries, millions of people have left their homes, 70,000 people are being bombarded with guns, guns, airplanes every day.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0071par0188	Don't discriminate, it's really dangerous there.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0189	Where do you talk about public support? Come on, guys! We need to put our hands on our conscience and improve our rhetoric. THE measurement of the EC PARTY is very clear. Look...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0071par0191	Isn't there a separation of Alevi-Sunni?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0192	Oh, for God's sake.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0071par0193	How could you not, it's all in the middle.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0194	Where are we going to sit when relationships between 2003 and 2010 are good? Oh, for God's sake.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0071par0195	These people are disturbed because they read the instructions of Israel, and because they read the instructions of the United States.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0196	Wasn't the same administration in charge at the time? Wasn't the AK PARTY at work again? What's the point of that period, fellas? If we're saying anything, it's got to be loaded.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0071par0197	Yeah, he said a thousand international sources, and we're not telling him!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0198	Look, the AK PARTY stands in the way of the oppressor, and it's going to stop now, so you know that.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0072par0199	Way to go!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0071par0200	We'll stay together. Because Israel is cruel, bombing, bombing innocent people.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0067par0201	And we stand by him who is oppressed, and we stand by him who is wronged, and we embrace him. All that talk... Finally, I'm finishing my sentences by saying that there is a picture of all the aid organizations in the world -- the United Nations, the European Union -- where Turkey is looking at guests in the best way, creating the best conditions -- when the whole world is looking at them with envy, we must not shadow this standing of Turkey with these words; the country is all of us. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0073par0205	Thank you, Mr. Greendale.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0074par0206	Mr. President, the speaker must have been picking on you during his speech.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0075par0207	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0073par0208	Now let Mr. Bauken talk, and I'll listen to you, okay?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0075par0209	Okay.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0073par0210	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0076par0213	Now, I'd like to make a call from here to AKP's deputy group presidents. When we bring in a motion for research here, it would be more efficient if you sent here the speakers who really know the subject and take it seriously. When you send someone here who doesn't even know which committee, when, where they're going, what report they're writing, they think we're making the research proposal out of the headlines. But we sent six delegations to Viranşehir and Ceylanpınar, the border area, in just one last month.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0077par0214	Hatay?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0076par0215	The group preparing the first report in Hatay is BDP. Look, Ertugrül Furçu is here. The group that sent our fellow MPs to Hatay is BDP, and the initial report belongs to BDP. In the same way, you did not read in the newspaper that there were no MPs or MPs allowed in the camps in Hatay. It's not right to come in here and talk about things like this without having any idea. We offer every piece of research we've ever prepared based on concrete information, what the people there have passed on to us. As a matter of fact, two days ago, our friends, co-chair and congressional delegation were in Viranşehir. By order of your government, they listened to the troubles of the people there, even at the cost of death. A day ago, they were in Ceylanpınar. A week ago, they were in Ceylanpınar, Viranşehir, and Kızıltepe. Thus, bringing such claims here is inhospitably incompatible. The Peace and Democracy Party is the first group to write the report on Hatay, and based on concrete data on all the events at the border, it is here to inform the Parliament, the Assembly, the General Assembly, based on the transmissions of the people there. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0078par0219	Mr. Ugly...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0079par0220	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, either he misread my words or he twisted them. I want your word on that.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0078par0221	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0079par0224	Now, dear friends, why are we helping refugees from Syria here, why are we taking them in, why are we giving them shelter? It's a human duty. We support the government on this, and we're helping as the National Movement Party, we're sending drugs to these camps. But I'd like to point out that your lack of accountability in foreign policy has led people there -- people who have passed away in recent months -- even before they could get their coat. I mean, he was going to leave in three months, so you didn't anticipate such an migration, that's one. Another, there are 75 million people in Turkey. Car rentals in Ankara are crying out at the moment. All of a sudden, the cars they rented find Hatay, from Hatay to Syria -- how the whole car goes by -- there's no meaning left to it, there's nothing left to say -- and there's nothing in the village of Harran of Reyhanlı who wants to graze their animals on the border, there's nothing left that's not crossed the border, and you're waiting for us to shut up in the name of 75 million of them. We said cotton, cotton is coming; oil is coming. E, the National Movement Party defends their rights, has to defend them. Or, of course, there will be some talks, some attitudes about human rights violations in Syria, but first, the state of the Republic of Turkey, first, the Turkish nation of 75 million. There's no sentimentality in foreign policy. That's how I want this to be known.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0080par0228	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Greengrove.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0081par0231	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Of course, we've all heard statements from both of them. The esteemed Deputy President of the BDP Group came up here and said some things. Of course, we know that Mr. Furkcü is a member of the Human Rights Commission. He attended visits with the Commission, but when he submitted this motion on behalf of his groups, did they have a visit to Hatay, as a group of people concerned about these events? I've expressed that.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0082par0233	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0083par0234	If you didn't follow me, why are you talking from this podium? Just two days ago, we were in Viranşehir, and you don't watch TV?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0081par0235	Of course, friends, I don't wish to answer one-on-one, but over and over again, you should appreciate how serious or not serious it is to have a group proposal here based on reports that have been submitted by him in the Human Rights Commission report.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0082par0236	We wrote our opposition to that report. Do we have to accept your report? You're talking nonsense.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0081par0237	Thus, the speaker from the National Movement Party also expressed it here. Of course, they expressed to themselves that the steps taken by the EC PARTY were for humanitarian purposes and that these steps needed to be supported. Now, there's a painting that the whole world appreciates.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0084par0238	Have you ever been to Ceylanpınar? Have you been to Viranşehir? Have you been to Kızıltepe?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0081par0239	And finally, I want to say that there is a painting happening that the whole world appreciates. And finally, I'm going to conclude my sentences by saying that, just to be clear about historical issues, we don't do profit-harm calculations. At the moment, very important historical issues are taking place, and I say that the AK PARTI government stands firm in its glorious history, in the history of the Turkish nation; it stands up to the tyrant, standing next to him to the end of the oppressed, and will continue to stand. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0085par0243	Yes, the United States of America suits you very well, doesn't it?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0086par0244	Mr. President, I believe my words here have been distorted again. Mr. orator said that we have said that the policies of the EC PARTY are human and supported by us. I didn't say that. In that way, to answer that...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0087par0245	Come on, we're clear. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0086par0249	Sir, I have stated that the Justice and Development Party's policy on refugees entering our border is correct and we support it. His policy on Syria, his steps in Syrian politics, I express here for several minutes the error of his ways, he pulls from the precious tip of the orator, he doesn't mention the wrong attitudes, the wrong policies, the words I've expressed about it, and he takes a sentence from the inside of it with a tweezer; it's a full AKP classic! So, I'm going to say one last thing: that you helped Syria, that you helped Syria when Syria was alone in the international area, but that Syria didn't listen to it, that it didn't understand you, did it? At the funeral of Assad the father -- I remind you -- did your government object to the Turkish state's president going to this funeral or not? Then did Abdullah Gul Bey and the AKP government in the prime minister's office oppose this visit to improve relations with Syria, and did he not, and did the AKP take the governments to cool off their long-term ties with Syria, or not? I'd appreciate an answer to that, too. I mean, some things aren't that simple, maybe someone has a memory for fish, but we don't have a memory for fish. My respects, my love, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0088par0256	I submit the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Tuesday/02/2013 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The Parliament proposals for our research proposals for 05/02/2013 on Tuesday (now) have been read in the General Assembly on December 20, 2012, with the number of 5355 points and 7833 points to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, "in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems of the academic and administrative faculty graduates." In favour of the nationalist Action Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to Mr. Alim Izwar, a member of the Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0089par0271	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the High Council. I have made a commitment as the National Movement Party Group, both in June 2012 and December 2012, to bring up the parliamentary research proposals that should be made, both in June 2012 and in December 2012, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by the graduates of economics and administrative sciences, one of the most recent students registered every year, to take care of the problems they face today. I hope the High Assembly will take these assessments correctly and decide to set up a research commission on this matter. Precious lawmakers, especially at a time when our college graduates are growing in numbers every day, and unfortunately the unemployment rate in youth graduates is increasing during the AKP administrations, the number of graduates is increasing increasingly in economics and administrative sciences graduates. In February of last year, on behalf of the graduates of economics and administrative sciences who visited almost every parliamentary group and also the Minister of Labor and Social Security, a group of our young people reported their problems to the groups themselves, and after their visits, a news came out that included a promise the Minister had made to them on February 25, 2012. Here's Mr. Çelik's demands to increase the number of staff that Mr. Çelik has been forwarded to them, especially if there's a lack of staff, and that he's sending young people, according to KPSS scores, to at least 2 times the number of staff graduates of economics and administrative sciences that he can apply, unfortunately, to at least 15,000, have been replaced by Mr. Minister's commitments in the past year. As it has not been increased since last year, on the contrary, we see that the number of appointments held in November, based on the results of KPS 2012, has decreased further. So it is clear that comforting these young people will not result in the benefit of this country by giving the traditional answers, such as the following groups, we will soon examine the problem. I invite the Minister of Labor to stand up for his promise and do as he promises young people, and I, for once, invite him from the stand, on their behalf, I call him. Dear lawmakers, especially one of the most important problems of these young people is the lack of quotas that have recently been announced by the SNS for college graduates. Again, the fact that other faculty graduates are applying to the field of employment, which is required to graduate from any license programme, except for the faculty of economics and administrative sciences, and that the ranking is a priority according to KPS scores, of course, eliminates the advantage of some of the faculty graduates in some courses. For example, these young people, who have a lot of loans such as business law, tax law, administration law, public administration, business, economics, are unable to make sufficient use of those kinds of quotas because they have to compete under the same conditions as other faculty graduates who are more successful in these courses or in other courses, such as mathematics and so on. Then there is one thing that must be done, and there is no other way but to increase these quotas. It would be unfair to other faculty graduates to convert the code into a code that only graduates of economic and administrative sciences will apply to. So it would be the best way to increase at least the number of this code as a quota. In particular, the graduates of economics and administrative sciences were first evaluated in hiring from the Ministry of Customs and Trade. In recent years, however, the Ministry of Customs and Trade recruits have also begun to be taken away from this area, where economics and administrative sciences have been primarily evaluated when this employee has been removed from the SFC assignments and is recruited through the interview system. When the other faculty graduates, both graduates of economic and administrative sciences and graduates of the Ministry of Customs and Commerce eliminated the KPSS obligation, they moved to a position where only those who made it a little closer to power were first employed. This would be more accurate if an interview system and a KPSS-sponsored system were immediately abandoned and employed within the measure of rights. Of course, economics and administrative sciences graduates are increasingly outnumbered each year by similar departments. In economics and administrative sciences, both economics and business economics and industrial relations have many departments such as public administration, finances, economics, international relations, political science, and in addition to at least 7-8 chapters, each of these departments has the highest quota of universities. Here, particularly the NGO's and the government's relevant ministries need to come together and plan personnel in accordance with Turkey's needs. You're going to increase the number of episodes, you're going to increase the number of quotas in these parts, and on the other hand, they're not going to be filled, they're going to be bloated, you're not going to give them a job. So there's no point in stalling these young people for four years or five years, so we need to do this plan right. In particular, according to the data provided by the State Chief of Staff, 76 per cent of health care is already one of the most important evidence of this problem in the 60 per cent level of public administration services in the public institutions appointed by graduates of economics and administrative sciences. The fact that staff taken here from various majors were able to leave the area of their territory and move there is an important indication that these staffs are not being used effectively, that they are not being used correctly. So that's one of the big problems. In particular, I believe that such a motion is in order to establish a research commission on the resolution of this matter, and to determine the measures that need to be taken, and to increase the measures for our young people's employment, and in the hope that the Supreme Assembly will support this motion, we will vote again as the National Action Party Group in the direction of our motion.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0090par0281	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Ibrahim Binici, Congress Member of Şanlıurfa, opposes the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0091par0285	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of my group on the MHP group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. Turkey currently has an economic and commercial faculty in 95 of 166 universities. The number of graduates given each year is over 30,000. When the graduates of the open school are included in this issue, the scale of the event is even more severe. The anxiety and fear of not finding a job that will become the feared dream of college graduates is becoming a shadow of faculty graduates. According to November's figures, the number of eligible lawmakers is more than 2.5 million unemployed, according to the figures that TÜİK made them dance to the figures. Given the fact that more than 30,000 graduates of administrative sciences are in the unemployed army every year, one out of 80 unemployed people are educated in administrative sciences. According to the latest data, the total number of young unemployed in Turkey is 18.6 per cent, so our young number of unemployed is 450,000 people. According to the data, most of these unemployed people -- over 300,000 of them -- are graduates of administrative sciences. Alumni of administrative sciences who are unable to find employment in the private sector because of their lack of experience are unable to find work because of insufficient public employment. There are only 10,000 people in the public for a graduate of 300,000 administrative sciences. The conclusion is that only one of every 30 graduates of administrative sciences have a staff. At this point, as the source of the problem, the result of the great interest and preference of these facultys is the main source of the problem from the state administration that opens 95 faculty and the freaky structure we call the NGO. Dear lawmakers, each school and department graduates have separate codes in their appointment for the public staff selection exam. When assigned to any position, these codes are used only for the application of trained candidates in that field. For example, only teacher candidates can apply to teaching staffs, health-related areas only to health graduates, and the staff concerned only to the religious and imam-student graduates, and that is the correct method, but after four years of training, the administrative sciences graduates have lost the right to be assigned to many staff and positions in their field in recent years. Many positions in banks, finances, customs services, CITs and other public institutions have been sought for a degree in administrative sciences in advance, especially in recent years, and it is seen that it is sufficient to have a four-year degree degree in faculty. This also leads to the appointment of those who have no knowledge in this area, and also to the absence of hundreds of thousands of graduates of administrative sciences. As a customs officer, we once again express how wrong it is to appoint a chemical engineer or biology teacher instead of a business, economics degree, instead of an economics degree as a bank official, to appoint a physicist, mathematician. Clearly, it is the most accurate and efficient way to ensure that everyone is appointed only in the field where they are trained. The appointment of a science faculty graduate as a banker or a financer would not please those who have been appointed from different areas, such as the government will reduce the quality of service by going to accounting school after being appointed. Dear lawmakers, we need to get rid of the obsession of opening the faculty of administrative sciences in all our universities. Both the quality of education in this area is falling and the lack of employment for hundreds of thousands of young people who have graduated from these schools. Each year, thousands of graduates from administrative sciences both block these people and open the door for the private sector to use this situation as leverage. In particular, we all know that graduates of administrative sciences are employed as interns and employed for minimum wage by banks. Dear lawmakers, I'm telling you, there's no point in giving the unemployed army new recruits out of the faculty that we've put into place, playing with the hopes of hundreds of thousands of young people, because I'm going to graduate from college. In this regard, again, you know, every year hundreds of candidates of teachers, even thousands of other teachers, were clubbed at the Redbear center the other day, fired again, thrown out again. The sole purpose of these people is to wait to be appointed as teachers after their higher education studies. But unfortunately, in the country, the prime minister doesn't have a word for it, so a Minister of National Education can't go out and say how open he is in education and teaching. For him, this unappointed teacher wishes that our brothers and sisters be appointed at once, and I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0092par0300	Thank you. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0093par0304	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the problems of the graduates of economic and administrative sciences. I salute your high council. Dear President, valued lawmakers; the faculty of economic and administrative sciences; business, economics, public administration, international relations, economics, working economy, finances, and management staffs that form the nervous system of society are raised in these schools. These schools are four years of colleges, except for preparation, and extremely difficult schools, which require effort and effort to finish. I'm a graduate of the Gazi University Department of Public Management, but I also studied economics and administrative sciences in both the United Kingdom and the United States with the money of this people, and I had a chance to compare. I, by sharing this comparison with you, find a way to evaluate our educational system together in terms of economics and administrative sciences. Let me first say that the quality of teachers and teachers in Turkey is much higher than most schools abroad. We have much better quality, much better education, much more intellectual teachers. My second assessment, unfortunately, is that students in Turkey study much more than students abroad. However, Western civilization's schools have a systemal advantage over our schools. If we were to open up the title of this system's superiority, the educational materials are better than our own, from the quality of printed books to the content of the software they use, unfortunately better than we are. The second issue: Like ours, there is an evaluation system that is not piling up in our education system, which is spread throughout the entire education calendar, and this evaluation system is not a memorised assessment, but a more creative assessment. The teachers are very interested in the students, but they also transfer funds to the teachers, and each of them has a staff called at least 5-6 teachers. These teaching assistants are also selected from the successful students of the universities, but, of course, there is no political, ethnic or religious discrimination in our country when they are elected. In universities around the world, diversity is considered a wealth. As in our universities, the only typeling is not in the universities of the world. That's why students from various countries of the world come to their country with scholarships. There's freedom in these universities, it's not a crime to carry eggs in these universities, dear friends. There are actions in these universities, where students act, but in these actions, the police are not violent, they don't spray, they don't kick girls on the floor. I'll tell you about a few activities that I participated in during my college term. For example, there were 300 Spartan films. This film was an action because it insulted Persian culture and Iranian culture. The Western students supported this action, but just after this action, a panel was held, the students came prepared for that panel, and there was a very deep debate on the panel over the discrimination of civilization. We acted on the Israeli-Palestinian issue. There was no police pressure at the time, just the students who supported Israel on the side walked, and it was a peaceful act. All I saw was a violent act: in the United States of America, there were students who wanted free education, and they acted, and I supported their actions, and they even threw eggs at them, but the police didn't show them violence, just to keep them from harming their environment. Dear friends, universities, free in Western civilization, students in the decision-making mechanism. Students are not as worthless, undeterred, rejected as they are here, dear friends. The universities offer opinions on economic, political, or social issues, research, and the views they make are of great use to solving problems for the community. Colleges are there in life, universities' labs are real life. The study opens the way for the real world and for universities to reach all kinds of data. For example, in our country, as a member of parliament, for about three months, I can't get the public tender data I've received before, even though it's in accordance with the law. The minister wants to give it to him, the deputy minister wants to give it to him, but the bureaucrats are in the way, and I can't get it, but even the students are getting it, not the MP. Let me tell you about a project, for example. The US Finance Ministry of the United States shared all its data statistically with my university, and my university created a simulation model to ensure tax justice and efficiency. The U.S. Treasury Department has begun using it to adapt. Another problem, dear friends, is that colleges are actually working to support industries there. I want to tell you about two projects. The first is an accurate voice recognition project. In this flawless sound recognition project, when people are talking, the machine is able to recognize this voice and carry out the commands, and if that happens, let me just tell you about it: the human factor in all banking transactions or phone transactions -- that's socially bad, but technologically speaking -- the machines start to do all of this stuff completely. For example, another project I remember immediately: a robot arm project that can spin at 360 creeks and do anything a hand can do. What if it's done? In the past, orthopedic surgeries can be performed in two months, three months in bed, three hours, five hours, three or five days out of the hospital. What do these things have in common? There are Turkish teachers and Turkish students in charge of developing these projects abroad. Here, because our educational system is inferior, we face one of the world's largest imperialist exploitations. What is this imperial exploitation? The best students of Turkey, their best educated students, their smartest students, are taken from their community by Western civilization and are driven into their own civilization under very low living conditions, with very low wages. It's called brain migration. On the contrary, brain migration is something that needs to be discussed here. You see, without science and art, a society can't develop. Not just science, dear friends, but art is a very important condition for the development of a society. Without Leonardo Da Vinci's paintings, you can't see the architecture today, and in other countries you don't spit into art, sculptures don't fall down, and a civilization is developing. In all this coverage, we're looking at the issue of economic and administrative sciences faculty in Turkey. There are two jobs: one private sector, the other public. There's not much to say about the private sector. There are two major employment institutions, ministries and public economic initiatives for the public. In the past, when we entered, we prepared for these exams from the 2nd grade of the university. We knew it would be a fair test. There was absolutely no doubt about the test. No one could interfere with the written exam, the oral exam could have had references before, dear friends. But what days have we reached now? Today, at the very beginning, in the tests, in the tests, in which this SEC took place, in the tests conducted by the OSCE, the questions became stolen, dear friends. I don't even talk about the writing and the verbals anymore. Sometimes I talk to the kids who took the test, and they ask so selective ideological questions, and they try to form a partisan staff, and what harm does that do to this country? Let's say we have a friend who's been raised very well, and he doesn't share the vision of this country, which can be very valuable, and he doesn't share it with the ruling party. You're doing bad things to this country by not bringing this friend into government employment with these questions. Here's an example: a boy takes his oral exam. Then there are actions against the search for cyanide and gold in Bergama, and this child is Bergaman. In one test of this economic bureaucracy, they ask the Bergamese child: "What do you think of the actions in Bergama? " The child is eliminated from this test because the government has given a disapproving response to this question, while the other child has given a response that he likes -- this -- and the referendum is accepted. I talked to the bureaucrats about it, it's not right to name names. Take this example as a general example. But there is no end to this discrimination, the end of this discrimination is polarization in society. If we can solve this together, starting with this period of power, we'll live in a richer, happier country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0094par0322	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Amasian MP Avni Erdemir is against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0095par0326	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal to determine the measures taken by investigating the problems caused by the National Party of Action graduates of Economics and administrative sciences. I salute you all. My fellow MP friends, our friend, our friend, the spokesman for the nationalist movement group with the proposal, have given a speech expressing concerns, concerns, issues of economic and administrative science graduates, especially our friend. Of course, there are issues that need to be considered, but I'd like to come up with a wider picture. Deputies, universities, are science centres where information is produced, taught, shared with society, and science nests. In universities, how can I be employed in a public institution? Beyond that, we have to raise young people who have great dreams and thrills for their country and themselves, and that's what our struggle is for. Look, our collegeization rate was 14 percent in 2002, and we reached 35 percent today. Is that enough? Of course, it's not enough. Because we reached these numbers in the early 1990s in Europe. Education sociologists refer to low-profile university education as ▪ Choosing education, and the world is now taking a stand for public education in university education. Yes, more than elitist education, we want everyone in our country's slums, villages, neighborhoods to study colleges, and we're trying to avoid an elite education based on the opinion of world sociologists, all sociologists. Dear friends, look, Japan and South Korea today have chosen 100 per cent of the age population as their goal to make university graduates. My dear friends, while we have just reached the goal that Europe achieved in the early 1990s, if we want to be among the world's 10 largest economies, if we want to create a great state, a strong society, we need to raise the level of universityization rapidly. If we choose to raise enough college graduates to be employed in public, I'm afraid we'll be a long way behind in this blessed race. What will be the competition with the world? Of course, with quality training, with quality management, quality economist, quality public manager, quality lawyer, quality engineer. The graduates of economics and administrative sciences will, of course, be the engine of the developing economy, and with that understanding, they must grow and grow. I mean, if we're just getting graduates of economics and administrative sciences to put them in public, I mean, wow. If we study the world well, we'll see that the world doesn't teach college graduates just to put them in public. We believe that we will be raising generations who speak languages, who know the world, who walk around the world with economic and administrative sciences graduates, who work in the private sector, who earn more than they do in public, and who produce more value in their country, and that should be our goal. That's what we're working with, that's why we're opening new universities, that's why we're raising the college budget, the RD budget. Dear lawmakers, look, in 2002 we had 53 states, 23 foundations, 76 universities in total; today we had 170 universities together with 94 new universities, 51 states and 43 foundations. So, over 76 universities, we've opened 94 new universities, and we've raised the number to 170. We've raised the college rate above the 35% from 14 percent. In 2002-2003, 1,798 thousand students were studying at our universities. Yes, my dear friends, we've raised 1,798 thousand students to over 4,200,000. We've raised the number of teachers above 76,000 to 19,000. We've raised the higher education budget from 2.5 billion to 15 billion, with an increase of about 510 per cent. Again, Turkey's RD budget rose from 57 million in 2002 to 2.8 billion euros today, with an increase of 4.755 per cent. Yes, the increase in budgets for RD activities is 4.755%. My fellow lawmakers, why are we doing all this? We're doing it to create stronger, more prosperous, competitive, leader Turkey. We'd be in the wrong argument if we put our educational struggle into public employment of college graduates, and we could only interpret it as public employment of graduates. I'm afraid that an argument that only connects with public employment of college graduates takes our country back in international competition because we can't step forward in this race by choosing competitiveness from all the people who have graduated from college. Yeah, we don't have a chance of competing with the world with the people we picked out of high school graduates while the whole world develops a competitive force by choosing out of college graduates. My fellow lawmakers, let's not be unfair to our country and ourselves. When we compare the world with the developed European countries, we see that the employment rate of college graduates is ahead of Europe. In Europe and developed countries, university graduates have an average of 69%, while our country has 71 per cent. My fellow lawmakers, in the research motion, the adoption of the Ministry of Customs and Trade has been removed from the OSM assignments, allowing the low-profile candidate to stand in the way of a high-profile candidate with an interview test. My dear friends, customs and customs inspectors carry weapons and are in charge of law enforcement. For him, their audition is due to the nature of the job. However, let's not forget that if 100 people are to be taken, twice as many as this, 200 people are ranked from the top down to the KPSS test, and from the top 200 people are selected for the interview. My fellow lawmakers, I've expressed it before, it's the right of every young person to be employed in public, but let's not forget it's not possible in our country or anywhere else in the world. Look, we're here today from the non-assigned teachers to the inability of graduates of economics and administrative sciences. Tomorrow, there will be unsupervised lawyers, engineers, geologists, archaeologists. Remember, the solution to this is not just public employment, it's developing, it's developing, it's producing, it's exporting, it's helping our young people start business. With these feelings, I salute the High Council with respect, with love, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0096par0345	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. I submit to your votes the proposal of the National Party for Action: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups during the consultation board's meeting on Tuesday, 05.02.2013 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 04,02,2013 by Ankara MP Levent Gök and 22 MPs, the Parliamentary Research Motion (704 rows) was issued by Turkey's Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly on the purpose of examining and determining the privatisation process, which does not have a legal basis for Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks in Tuesday's unification of 05.02.2013. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0097par0360	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a bleeding wound in Ankara, where we ask for a meeting today. The person who created this problem with the Ankarans and made it impossible for them to solve it is Melih Gökçek. A mayor who mortgages the future of Ankara's people, who sells all the city's revenues through his own personal incompetence and indiscriminateness, and then acts with a sense of the flood, stands before us as a natural stake for the Ankarans. She took refuge in the protection of power, waited to be rescued in every difficult situation, and did not hesitate to use our coven in her own way. Deliberate lawmakers are encouraged and widely encouraged in Ankara because of the prevention of natural gas air pollution and a cheaper fuel. In almost all sites, natural gas transformation has been largely completed, and natural gas is now the only non-turnable option in Ankara. Ankarans use natural gas in cash, so in Ankara, they don't send invoices after using them, they don't collect them, they buy the gas in advance. Here, Melih Gökçek did not pay the price for the gas he received from Ankarans in advance. On the other hand, a rescue operation has been carried out for Ankara Metropolitan Municipality as Ankara subways arrive at a deadlocking point and are declared Turkey's most indebted municipality. A rescue operation has been carried out in exchange for Melih Gökçek, where all opposition municipalities have been digested. In 2007, a change in the Natural Gas Market Law was passed on to the Capital Gas Corporation, which was established within Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, as part of the privatisation of 80 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I am now telling you exactly from the words of Ankara MP Nur Doğan Topaloğlu, who then spoke on behalf of the AKP and proposed the law; look how our friend who prepared this law made a speech in the Parliament then: we, the City Council, are meeting from time to time in Ankara. We asked the mayor why the slowdown in the rail system and why there were problems like this going on, and when he said there was a blockage, we said, "Prepare a document." So we made it a law proposal from the mayor, and we thought we'd speed it up, and that's why we offered the law. My dear friends say. Again, it goes on: we wanted to shed light on the city, to guide it, not only to criticize it, but to remove the obstacles. Here, we have seen fit to make this proposal. Mr. Nur Doğan Topaloglu and he continues: I am greatly relieved that this offer has been made as an Ankara MP. The blockage in the rail system will be met with the passing of this proposal. Good luck to the Ankarans and to the Republic of Turkey. If this offer passes, I think a good door will open and the services will speed up. You'll think more, dear brother. What is it? Natural gas has been privatized to build a subway, and our friends have defended them to you. Precious lawmakers, such as 80 per cent were privatised and then auctioned off 900,000 subscribers, but in 2006, the tenders were offered at most $1 billion, $611m, although Meleh Skycek was worth 3 billion. Later, she handed over the construction of the subways to the Transport Ministry on 25/4/2011, after the Council of Ministers' decision dated 25/10/10, which failed to take a step forward on the subway. My dear friends, now, even so, with a amendment on 4 July 2012, 100 per cent of D.C.G.A. was included in privatisation. D.C.G.G.G.A. has been re-arrested by the Privatisation Administration, despite all our assessments of the privatisation grounds. In that case, if you remember, I've spoken in the House several times. I said stop this contract because natural gas is the only option for the Ankaran and is the most important source of income in the municipality. But when Melih Gökçek heard all my assessments to stop the D.C. Gas tender, he accused me of corrupting the tender this time and said he would report it to the prosecution, my dear friends. After that, the head of D.C. Gas announced that the institution made 45.5 million liras last year. Precious lawmakers, in all this case, all the improvements made in natural gas, the decision to sell 100 per cent of products, and with 1 million 411,000 subscribers of Turkey's second-largest gas company, Dacgaz Gave the tender on 25 January 2013, at the highest bid of $1 billion 162 million, while market value is currently expected to be $8 billion. However, in his statement a few days ago, while referring to the privatisation tenders, we caught 1.5. He didn't pay, so his collateral's gone. Now, the new one gives 1,100, and if 1,100 is given in the place where he has caught 1.5, won't it be answered? And he left Melih Gökçeş out in the middle. Of course it is. If the Prime Minister doesn't ask these questions, we will, and if no one asks them, we will. Now, while I'm trying to stop this privatisation, I call upon Melih Gökçek to stand before you in the presence of all our citizens, who say they're going to report me to the prosecution! Go ahead, file a complaint against me, but when you're filing a complaint against me, the number of defendants has risen to two, now report the Prime Minister with me. The Ankarans will surely ask you to pay for this capital gas. What did you do with the gas money you collected in advance from the public? Where did all this money go? How much did you withdraw from the D.C.G. company against the law? Why did you cut them into pieces, directly supply and bargaining, when you were able to make the gas infrastructure tenders as a single open tender? Why did you turn the SCADA system into a system that controls the safe transmission of natural gas, monitors and intervenes when necessary? Why use a prepaid electronic counter when you can use a cheaper mechanical meter? Dear MPs, the Court has personally issued new charges for the additional financial burdens, such as interest, compensation, delay hikes, and fines, for its duties, which, in many decisions, the public executives have failed to carry out in accordance with the legislation. Therefore, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's debt is now a personal debt from Melih Gökçek, and all Ankara's hands are on the sides of Melih Gökçek. Dear lawmakers, our sole goal is to ensure that the Ankarans are no longer victims of the gas they already pay high prices. The distribution of natural gas cannot be abandoned at the mercy of a company that will be a monopoly on privatisation and municipal duties. Ankara's interests cannot be sacrificed to the fallen mayoral understanding and ambition of Melih Gökçek. Therefore, with the adoption of our motion, the basis for the establishment of D.C.gaz (D.A.), the steps he's gone through, the improvements in the interests of Ankara's people, we need to investigate this research proposal, and it stands as essential elements. We need to work to ensure that the capital city, as an important source of income, will remain in the city of Grand City, which no longer has legal basis for all these reasons. Melih Gökçek is present today, there is no tomorrow. The mayors of the capital must not be deprived of an important source of income to run it tomorrow. Our main reason is that the Ankarans do not come to situations where they can't pay the heavy bills they face by being subjected to the mercy of a company in the future. We're putting forward a very merciful, very realistic proposal. Melih Gökçek has deceived your power. He's fooled the Ankaraans, but it's time to call it 'dur'. That day is today. That's why I wish you all the acceptance of our motion, and with love, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0098par0378	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Afif Demirkıran. Here you are, Mr. Ironbreaker.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0099par0382	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the Republican People's Party's motion. Dear President, dear friends, now, of course, we need to examine the Republican People's Party's logic in the matter first. Is what the Republican People's Party really trying to say here against privatisation, or is the capital against the privatisation of gas? If it's an attitude against privatisation, it's a different way of looking at it. Turkey currently has natural gas distributions in 71 cities, as you know, and three have already been privatised, Eskişehirgas, Bursagas and Izmitgaz. In all other provinces except Istanbul and Ankara, the private sector has been tendered. It draws BOTAS all the way to the edge of the city, and then its distribution is taken and run by private companies, private companies, private companies, at the races they entered in the EPDK. So if we're going to say something called citizen's sacrifice, it's not just for citizens in Ankara, it's for the victims of 75 million people in Turkey, of citizens. But what I'm saying is that there really isn't a citizen's victim here. Why not? Because the company doesn't determine the price of gas here to sell to consumers. What makes you think you're a victim of something the company doesn't determine? Here BOTAS sets its price, there's tax on it, and there's also a price on it, and there's a price on it, and that's the law that my valued proxy just told me that it's fixed for the next eight years when 100 per cent of the stock is put up for privatisation and how it will be privatized. So for the next eight years, without a price increase -- I'm talking about the line line, I'm talking about the service price -- I'm just talking about the current fixed price, plus the price that BOTASH predicted, and on top of that, the government, the Ministry of Finance tax. Which is, when you look at the total price, you know very well, my precious Regent, the EPDK is organizing it, not just the price of electricity, but also the price of natural gas, and the EPDK is overseeing it. Is it possible that any firm, in any county, can take any decision against the consumer as a pleasure, that's not possible. So I want to say here that the privatisation of D.C.gas is the right decision, but when we go backwards, it's just been expressed a few times, unfortunately, a few attempts have been made for privatisation, but it's never been concluded. So what? Seven bids were received in December 2007, but the highest price was $1,610 million, but since the highest bidder was unable to provide funding later, the tender was also burned and cancelled. Then, in 2010, for $1,514 million, the highest bid, there are seven offers again. Then, when we come to 2011, for whatever reason, there's a very low offer, the Privatisation Administration cancels, an offer of $718 million. But at the point where we came in, there were also very serious international promotions, 13 major companies, 13 international companies, Spain, and many US companies were also interested in, and there were six offers, and four firms -- many of them you know -- increased by 12 laps to $1,162 million. There's nothing finalized, and the evaluation is under way. Mr. Prime Minister has also issued a warning to ensure the price is right, so that it will be considered correctly, that the citizens will not be victims, that the people of Ankara will not be victims, that Turkey will not be victims. That's what it's done, but it's already under review. If the price is found to be the right price as a result of this assessment, it will be evaluated accordingly, no, but if it is determined to be low, it will be evaluated accordingly. But let me tell you, sir, the company has made 45.5 million dollars a year. When you divide that by twenty-two years of profit from a company, that's the current number. However, of course, it is a very important project, and Turkey is not the former Turkey. When we look at recent privatisations in Turkey, there are very serious price hikes, very serious interest. For him, an investigation like this is already being conducted by the Privatisation Administration to see if I can get a higher price, because there are actually 1.4 million subscribers of the Ankara gas company. 6.5 per cent of Turkey's population lives in Ankara, and almost all of it is urbanized, almost 100 per cent of its natural gas is everywhere. But the esteemed MP from the Republican People's Party, who has the motion, says: "There is no alternative to the citizen in Ankara. " Well, do the citizens in other provinces have alternatives that are being distributed by the private sector? Such logic is not right. So I think it would be a lot more accurate if the demands, the motions, could actually sit on their feet. When you look at the distribution of the money taken, the loan to the BOTASH (BOTASH) before 2007 is paid. On behalf of this firm, the funds are paid for guarantees of loans that the Treasury has received for these lines. In the end, if there's a price to stay at, it goes to the city. Therefore, there is not the slightest harm done by the municipality or by the citizens or by the BOTAS. On the contrary, when we actually look at the length of the line, we're talking about almost 9,600 kilometers of line, we're talking about polyethylene and distribution lines, the privatization of such a massive line and over a thousand pressure drop stations. Of course, selling it for the best price, privatizing it for the best price is our desire, our demand, our will, and all of our work is in that direction. Because now in the private sector... the government needs to withdraw from the activities of citizens and companies in the energy sector, as in all sectors. Look, BOTAS is also doing the contract transfer. BOTACH has done a great deal of work. In our government, when we come to power, there are only five cities in which there are gas distributions in the dwellings, there are natural gas distributions in 71 districts today. When we come to power, there's a small amount of - 4,000-plus gas transmission lines, and today there's 12,300 kilometers of natural gas transmission lines. Our own natural gas is being invested in very serious investments by BOTAS, or rather Turkey Oil, which is responsible for drilling. In our power, 15 times the amount of investment has increased, so that he can invest, drill and search. It's not enough, we're searching the seas, we're searching abroad because Turkey's energy bill is really high and we've consumed 48 billion cubic metres of natural gas last year. Unfortunately, Turkey's natural gas reserves that we now know are only 7 billion cubic metres. We're trying to increase that. Turkey is doing this at the most affordable prices, which is in Europe -- the end of the process -- the second cheapest in the industry and the cheapest distribution in housing. When we get to... Because that's what friends say from time to time. They say: "Sir, natural gas prices are high." Look, guys, natural gas, when we came to power in 2002, a minimum waged natural gas from a minimum wage... There's been a significant increase in the amount.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0100par0387	Thank you, Mr. Ironcracker.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0099par0388	Therefore, I say I will vote against this motion, and I salute you all, my friends.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit02spe0100par0389	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0100par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 61st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations on the Republican People's Party proposal. Now, in favor of the proposal, Congressman Necati Özensoy. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0101par0006	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the group proposal from the Republican People's Party, the research motion. On behalf of the National Movement Party, I salute you all. The capital gas was founded and later privatized into a story about snakes. I'll tell you right away. My teacher just told me that here, here, you know, you have to express what you're up against. We, as a group, are not opposed to privatisation, but we are opposed to the damage done by that institution in the pocket of the citizens while they are hogging around in the sense of thalana, archetype and inheritance. Now, my teacher just said, "There's no harm here. Of course, as soon as the investments here are sold according to the current value of this company, this institution, which is public property, which is made up of taxes by citizens, is still being privatized correctly, as Mr. Prime Minister objects, which means that the tender is not true because it is not true, so it is not the case that the D.C. comes with natural gas. In this sense -- if it's an audit duty for us, lawmakers -- it's a good idea to set up a research commission on the capital's natural gas, if it's to look out for public interests. Because when we look back, it's really, I don't understand, and the laws are being passed and the costs are being put in the citizens' pockets. Along with the 2007 law... Look, my teacher says there's no harm here. I'll explain it to you in paragraphs from the Court's reports, the audit reports, as usual. It says here that the amount of delays we're going to receive from the EGO by this law is estimated at 676 million,976,636 YTL, which has been agreed on by the EGO. Again, the last paragraph, the last paragraph, in between, is expressed in many things: how I'm going to say that the citizens of Ankara have been taken under Law 6183, and that the amount of tariffs we're going to receive from the EGO are due to a total cost of 439 million,556,797 YTL. See here, now, with movement, as we look at the figures written in the report of the article -- how I'm going to tell the citizens of Ankara who are under the law -- and how they're going to pay a full amount of gas due to the current gas. That's not a small number, that's over $1 billion. If you calculate the annual cost of financing as 10%, if you go from 2007 to even further back, you're going to make 70 percent in seven years, 700 million dollars in financing for BOTASH, you're going to charge the cost. Now, BOTAS... look, I'm going to read from the Court's report here again: it has been effective in increasing the debt supply of BOTASH and the company's cash shortage, as it has led to the cost-free funding of EGO. On the other hand, the amount of commercial revenue due to the sale of natural gas to the EGO is expected to be paid by 676.9 million YTL, which is expected to be from privatisation within the last two years, as of 2007, and will still be paid in 2013. On the one hand, the loss of interest in large amounts has been a major financial deficit due to the arrangements for his collection during two years of privatisation, on the other hand, without interest. Now, he's saying that for two years there, six years later, please account for the financing costs of BOTASH. So if BOTAS is doing serious increases today, especially in recent years, that's what citizens have to pay every year in gas prices, that's what D.C. Gas is doing here, the simplest cost to BOTAS. Other than that, my teacher said it was fixed in that law that was made in 2007, the cost of transportation and amortism. Like Bursa, which also mentions transport and amortism costs, the privatized companies, such as Adapazari, are at least triple; in some places there are transport and amortism costs, which amount to 7; 8; 8; 10; and Ankara. Now, where do we put these? And it's determined by the law. The price of EPDK is set, but the law in 2007 is to carry it on a dollar basis, and again the cost of amortism is set here. Now, moving from here, again, there are documents here in the newspapers and evaluations in those days, that you have collected 15 trillion extra from the citizen's pocket by this law alone every year. Now, all of these are numbers that come out of a citizen's pocket, uploaded to a citizen. Of course, the capital gas, in this sense, has a volume of gas that corresponds to almost 6 percent of BOTASH, like 2.3 billion cubic metres. Of course, it only reduces the cost of transport and amortization. Now, look, we made another law last year. The bag was classified in the law. Maybe the citizen didn't realize it, but I spoke in that bag of law again. My teacher just said: "The cost of amortism has already been set for ten years, and we kept this bag in the law... ten years before the privatisation. They looked at it, they showed mercy, I guess the group's vice presidents, or the people who brought in this law, reduced it to eight years. Now, it's been fixed for eight years. It's not eight years, it's five years, it's six years. The cost of amortization would have been over, sir, and the price of transportation would have dropped further back. I mean, why don't you just say it? Due to these laws, because of the protection and protection of the capital's natural gas, both the Ankara people and all the citizens living in all the provinces in Turkey, using natural gas, paying bills are victims, and there, again, the bag is in the law. Look, the only reason this law was passed was because the price of this company had been raised, so the tender had to go a little higher. However, 80 per cent of the sale has been increased to 100 per cent, and although the cost of amortism and transportation has been extended, the bid for 1.6 billion is 1,162 million. I mean, does that even exist? Now, I'm saying that when such a public institution is being sold, when it's being privatized, when it's clearly and clearly being pursued, all of these and the mistakes made by executives in the past, there's a benefit for us to set up and examine the research commission by Congress, which is our control mission. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0102par0019	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Mr. Adam Tasty, MP of Giresun against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dessert.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0103par0023	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. The speakers on the stand, our esteemed congresswoman friends, discussed the matter thoroughly. And I say I'm against CHP's group proposal, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0102par0026	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0104par0027	Mr. President, for a two-minute statement...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0102par0028	I know, you told me. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0105par0031	Mr. President, I had a request before.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0102par0032	Okay, I'll give you one. I've fulfilled the request not to be bullied, but to make amends.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0106par0034	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party puts a lot of emphasis on the strategic position of the product in privatisations and looks at privatisations in order to ensure that the market value is as high as possible, without squandering, under the principle of protecting the public benefit. Therefore, the Republican People's Party's approach to privatisation of the capital, D.C. Gas, is to highlight the fact that this gas is a very important fuel and only option for Ankara and that Ankara will be victimised by Ankara's price policies from the moment it is privatised. We're very responsible for this, as opposition to all our citizens, we're warning you. I've already deceived you, my dear friends, as Melih Gökçek passed this law. I'm going to build a subway. He brought this law, which I just read from the transcripts of your speaker. See, in the photo I have in my hand, the metro called the production date 2003, the end date 2005. Melih Gökçek says, "Good luck to the Goatsureans." Now, in Ankara, my dear friends, do the municipal subways take over, do they, do they, do they? The Ministry of Transport is doing it, so the central government has taken over a $3 billion source. And don't rely too much on her, she'll shoot you in the back. Look, there's been a cave-in in Ankara, one of our citizens is dead. The Ministry of Transport had just taken over, and we criticized it, because it had collapsed, and Melih Göksek said: "I am not doing it, but the Ministry of Transport is doing it, go ask the Minister of Transport about it." So please go after the people you trust and let those you don't trust go. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0107par0039	I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0108par0043	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, a conversation I gave here last week has been constantly distorted, and many groups today have been particularly polemic. I've made it clear and clear that there's been a debate in this Parliament and the media over the past few days. I had a promise to those who insulted a people about it, and he said, "I am a Bosniak," putting forth his own ethnist, his identity. You can be Bosniak, you can deny and deny your identity, but other than you, people live here, in this geography. We said we respected all identities. We had a review of Caucasians and Balkans. Who? Anyone who owns his identity, who respects the identities of other peoples in this geography, has a place above our heads. This geography is not just the common geography of Kurds and Turks, but 75 million people live in this geography, it's the home of everyone. I said, and I said, again, my word, I said: if you came from there and took refuge in this land, but you took shelter in a Turkish nationalism, with an axe in your hands, if you go and destroy the Kurdish neighborhood in Bursah, go and attack the BDP building in Sakarya, my word was on them, and I'm telling you again: if you've been persecuted by the Serbs, if you're a victim of the people here, don't come and you't want to be a victim, but if you go and you go and you're wronged the Kurdish community here. Well, love for the country is a free love, so we all know... Mr. President, did you give me a minute?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0109par0047	I've given you two minutes, so look, you're filling it up while you're talking.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0108par0048	I'm sorry, if you'll just give me one more minute...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0109par0050	Look, he left while we were talking. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0108par0052	I mean, look, I'm telling you, Mr. Kamer, you're talking about imperialists here, accusing us of being servants, I don't know. By God, we never made a deal with the imperialists in any time. The deals with NATO began in the 1946s, in the 50s, and we never -- this group -- were in power, and we never had any business with imperial forces. You're talking about the death of 30 people, what is our sin here? Look, a soldier's going crazy today, killing three of his friends, his comrade-in-arms. We want this war to end, we want this fight to end. Our heart does not draw water from the well of the imperialists, nor from the well of racist nationalists. We have constantly stood up to the imperialist forces, the People's Democratic Congress is already a sign of it, and we have gathered the people in this group as one. Those who accuse us of racism should turn around and look at themselves in the mirror. President, thank you, too.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0111par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0112par0058	Wait a second...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0059	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0112par0060	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have nothing against anyone, but I need everyone to tell the truth here. Look, Mr. Sýrý Bey says to me the other day, now, he looks at me: "We are the owners of this land, and you come from the mountain, and you cast out the farmer."
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0113par0065	You came from the mountains of my class, and I...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0066	I-I-I was there, you told me. And then you say, "Sacrifice yourself to the mountains of Dersim, for you are polluting them."
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0113par0067	Please love your country for nothing.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0068	Look, you're making a lot of accusations here. It's not worth taking his name, you objector, monogamous, you're in denial. Guys, is there anything heavier than that? Look, I know a lot. And I'm not taking care of you either. While there's a AKP that's come to divide this country, to tear it down, to destroy it, while there's a ruling party that's selling this country, trying to divide it with foreign imperialist forces, I don't want to bring it to you. But I have been in Tucson for thirty-two years, and I am in Tunceli. You have no right to tell me that. After that, friend, you're dating here... we've all sworn to protect the integrity of the state of the Republic of Turkey, to protect secularism. Now, no one has the right to go out there and crush people by trusting armed organizations. We're for legitimacy. Look, you say the thing about our class, who killed Dr. Baran along with 37 others? Dr. Sait Redstone...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0114par0072	Whitestone!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0115par0073	Red Earth.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0074	Red Earth, sorry. Next to my village, he was a doctor, went to Barzani to help him, and there he helped the people so much that he came out among the people.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0116par0075	Let's make a motion to investigate, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0076	But because he was Alevi, he was killed because he was from Tunceli. There's Tunceli again. I mean, don't make us say things. Look, if you come at us, we have the right to...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0116par0078	Let's talk about it, Congressman, let's file a motion to investigate, let's face the reality of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0079	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, you promised him, and I'll finish.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0117par0080	I've given you three minutes before. I gave the gentleman two minutes. That's why I promised not to pick on him now.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0081	But no, I mean, let's tell the truth, guys. If we don't tell the truth, I'm afraid we don't have the right to defend ourselves here, but if we do... it's the duty of all of us to protect the integrity and integrity of this country. I'm telling you, someone's been serving as a servant to the imperialist forces.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0118par0082	To embrace the imperialists...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0083	Yeah, well, who's gonna hold her...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0119par0084	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0110par0085	I mean, you're cooperating with the United States today, and you're cooperating with the AKP.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0120par0087	Those who cooperate with the United States are clear.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0121par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0122par0089	Mr. Vural got up first, one at a time.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0123par0092	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point here. Despite these actions by the bloody PKK terror organization, which has put a bullet in our police, soldier, teacher, for 30 years -- thank God for God -- the Turkish nation's sons have lived as brothers, regardless of their origins, and this fitness and corruption will not succeed. Therefore, the Turkish nation has a problem with the separatist terrorist organization. No attempt to undermine the unity and integrity of this nation will be successful by creating sedition and corruption between ethnic identities. I'd like to put it this way.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0122par0093	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0124par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. When a congressman was just answering about the bullying he was getting, they probably -- I don't know what happened between them, when we looked at the statements from last week's transcripts -- they spat at each other, but I'm not picking on you under the lameness of the answer he couldn't give you, all I care about is the power of the AK PARTI. The AK PARTI, who sells this country, who sells it, who sells it, who sells it, who sells it, who sells it to foreigners, who try to refer to it as the government of the AK PARTI, who sells it, who sells it, who sells it to foreigners, who sells everything to strangers, who sells it to them, who try to express it as a brother, and who underlines it, from 2001 to August 14th to today, when all the speakers of the EC PARTİ are in power, who are determined to say this side, even to keep this country from the day that the Justice and Development Party was formed, to be together, and to be able to express that all people are brothers, by saying, under one word, to say, from 2001 August 14th, to today, one nation, one single, to this is a single, single, single, single, single, single flag of the nation, and to say, to say this is an unfair to this party. What was given to you is a five percent stake in a land that was given for free in accordance with Aksaray's incentive law -- using its economic influence -- that, let alone this statement to you, from the moment you became a MP in 2007, took the partnership of a German firm, under what circumstances, and didn't pay for the partnership you made with the brick factory, and only went to an Aksaray who didn't pay for it? You know, like the man said: I'll look at the mouth, see if it's a word, see if it's a man. I've paid you compensation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not a word, it's not a man. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0125par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0126par0105	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0125par0107	Mr. President, I'm not talking about this hay thing. Because, in the past, they've stood on this straw a lot, and I said, "Don't worry, I'll split your winter straw, I won't put it in a lot of bricks." It's worth a lot... Now, gentlemen, who is the President of the Great Middle East, BOP... Recep Erdogan. BOP was founded for what purpose, who gave what assignment? The United States says: "In order for me to maintain myself as a superpower, there must be no major state here in the Middle East and especially Turkey. What's BOP doing? It has been assigned to divide all countries in the Middle East, especially Turkey. Is there any indication to divide Turkey more than that? Can you imagine, in one country, when someone comes to the position of Prime Minister, you're going to divide the country where you're Prime Minister. There's going to be a task called "O Prime Minister." He's going to announce it proudly on the podiums, and then we're going to go out and say, "You've put Turkey in this position to divide." Look, after the June 12th elections, you took the general staff and gave it to the MIT. Hundreds of soldiers were killed because MIT had not given the necessary information to the army. That's all there is to it. Our plane, which was shot down on the Syrian side, has also been a loss from the removal of those GESEs from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the handover of the MIT. Everyone says that, don't you ever get that information? What can I say to the people who think so much of betraying their country? You're gonna destroy the country's Armed Forces, you're gonna bring them down, you're not gonna leave a commander in the Navy, and then you're gonna go up to the congressman who said it, and you're gonna say it's a matter of hay. If you answer to the hay, I'll answer for it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but you can answer for your things.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0127par0115	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0128par0116	Wait, what's this about?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0127par0117	He accused us of sedition and corruption against our individual.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0128par0118	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0127par0119	He said himself that we threatened him with a gun.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0128par0120	With a gun?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0127par0121	That we threatened him with a gun.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0129par0122	He threatened to trust the gun. He said, Mr. President. And he said we're servants of imperialism.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0128par0123	But she answered him.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0129par0124	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0128par0125	No, you've gone out before to fix the same thing...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0130par0126	Mr. President, he's given us a new pick-me-up.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0128par0127	I see, well, here you go. No, wait a minute. Now, on behalf of the group, I'll give you my word. We started with the best, so let's move on. Okay, I'll give you my word, but let's do this side first. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0131par0132	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. One of this individual's greatest accomplishments is lying and slandering...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0132par0134	Respect, respect.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0131par0135	It's the right thing to do. He won't do anything else. And it's not worth answering. I just reminded you of the word of the Lord. Let me pass the matter of hay, and then I will repeat the word of the Lord. One of your biggest qualities here is to provoke people and insult them and win a case. I lost two cases to you. There were mutual insults. We didn't think it was appropriate for a congressman to be sued for his work, but you went on the last day and filed a lawsuit against me. In fact, you said: "I won't take this, in the Supreme Court, let the case be concluded." Then you tried to foreclose. Look, about the hay thing, the German picked you up so hard, he only gave you 5%. And you will not be able to cause anyone to share in it. It is sufficient for you. I'm keeping your family apart, that's enough for you. It's enough for him. Again, I remind you that we have the answer to every word...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0133par0138	Mr. President, you can't afford any disrespect from the council.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0134par0139	Everyone's insulting each other, there's nothing to do.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0131par0140	I'll look for words first, and then I'll see if he's a man.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0135par0141	Sit the fuck down. Are we going to learn manliness from you?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0131par0142	I know the guy who walked out of here, he's not saying anything, he's not a man. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0136par0145	Mr. Sakık, you go ahead.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0137par0146	Mr. Baluken will speak.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0136par0147	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0138par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, here, our congressman friend has expressed his point of view, and we think he has made it very clear. In his statement later, he said, "If there is something beyond his purpose, if there are people who have been hurt because of his identity, I apologize to them all." He said, "So this matter is closed for us, and this is a great virtue." The Peace and Democracy Party is a party that has not only taken the freedoms of all different identities, different languages, cultures, ethnities, the freedoms of the oppressed into its own party programme, its own election declaration, its own charter, it can never hold its back against the gun, it is a political party which close to 3 million voters voted to pay for, 10,000 people are now in prisons, it's continuing to pay the price, even the most democratic event in the region is in the political work of death, therefore you will pay attention to peace and democracy as they speak. On the other hand, we say this as a universal principle, we believe that racism and socialism don't come together, left and Fascism doesn't. We're very clear about this, and we think that if there are people who aren't clear about this, it needs to be faced. For all the other things you're saying, we're calling on this Parliament to set up a commission for research and justice, and the PKK has said, "I am ready to open all my archives on this matter."
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0139par0154	The PKK is a state?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0138par0155	We say that not only the PKK's history, but all history dating back to the 25 resistance must be investigated by the commission established by this Assembly and that its criminals must be tried publicly, in front of history. I just want to make it clear that we're very clear about this.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0140par0157	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0141par0160	Then give me at least five minutes to answer two people, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0142par0161	We've had enough of you! That's enough!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0140par0162	No, I can't give you that much. It's already been nine minutes of your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0143par0165	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers say that because time is so short... they imitate what I gave Mustafa Elitaş about the hay in his day. He says: "I'm a man of words. I'm a man of words." To understand my words, you have to be a man. If he's not a man, he doesn't know what I'm talking about. That's why I'm wasting Mustafa's words. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, my dear friends, look, about my lesson, with these two lines, it's not going to happen in one day. But we know what the Kurdish Idrisi Bitli did, and we know the people who took part in that movement and then did those hurtful things to the Alevi citizens in Dersim. These are long issues. Let's put the past behind us and get to the present. Here's what we want: no more men dying in our country, no more guns talking, let's live together as brothers. I'm just saying, let's talk about whatever problems we have, that's all I'm saying. But now, you have a special grudge against me. He didn't win BDP in the last election. Well, he's not gonna win. If you'd won the public's favor, if you'd won. So, for him, I mean here, you're always doing this thing. My lesson was until 1935, and then by law he became a Tunceli. Recep Erdogan says it's all the time. Let him bring it, let my class change his name, let him take the old lands back into that province, we're content with it, because I respect the law. Now, I've filed a lawsuit against Mustafa Elitaş. The judges are holding him, he's sentenced to 2,000 lira reparations. He brought in a lawyer, put up $1,100 worth of legal fees, took 1,500 liras of legal fees, 500 liras to go. If you want, Mustafa, I'll give you that 500 lira back, if you want it.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0144par0172	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0143par0173	That's not gonna happen, guys. I mean, he doesn't mind that we're suing, but when you do, the judges rule for 10,000, 15 grand. That's what justice is all about in Turkey! Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0145par0175	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0146par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0145par0177	No more, no more.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0146par0178	No, no, no, no, no, no, no. To get him on the record.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0145par0179	No, not from your place, not from the outside. I'll take a break, I'll go, I swear to God, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0146par0180	Mr. President, can you give us...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0145par0181	It's over, it's over, it's over. Everyone talked as much as they wanted, it's over. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at a meeting held by the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday, 05.02.2013 (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President On the agenda, 409, 410, 384, 49, 334, 217, 69, 186, 366, 368, 380, 304, 125, 192, 193, 243, 246, 367, 388, 3, 5, 7, 9, 12, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 20, 22, 23, 23, 23, 23, 246, 367, 388, 367 and 388, according to the order of the law proposals and other tasks. Apart from week-to-week working days, the meeting Friday (February 08th, 2013) at 2:00 p.m., and the discussion of the agenda's "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" On Tuesday, February 5, 2013, the merger of oral questions was not discussed until the completion of the talks of Bill 409 in this merger, Until the meeting of Wednesday (February 6th 2013), until the meeting of the Law Bill 240 rows, Until the meeting of Thursday (February 7th 2013), until the 334th Bill of Laws, Until the meeting of Friday (February 8, 2013) of Friday's merger, until the meeting of the 69th legislature of the Legislature, At 2400 p.m., the daily schedules will be completed if the daily programs cannot be completed. The Civil Code of 409 is 91 of the Bill of Law. According to the article, it has been suggested that it should be discussed as the Basic Law and that its sections be as in the accompanying ruler, and that it should continue its work. A Charter on the Obstruction of Terrorism [[1/489]] Articles of Sections Articles 1. Articles 1 through 11 11 2. Articles 12 through 21 11 [[It's temporary, including the 1st article.]] In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0147par0213	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of a group proposal given by the Justice and Development Party under the 19th Amendment. The EC PARTI group proposal recommends reorganising the agenda as a day and hour of our Parliament's work this week. According to this, it is recommended that the Law on the Financing of Terrorism 409 rows and Laws on Underwaters 410 rows be placed on the front of the agenda. You know, there's been a problem with domestic legislation in Turkey for a long time at the financing point of this terrorism. In the framework of the 1999 United Nations International Convention to prevent the financing of terrorism, we also needed to make this arrangement so that we could harmonise our internal legislation with this international law, which is now in the internal legislation of all countries outside of three countries in the world. So, here's what we've come up with today's proposal, we propose that this 409 rows bill be brought up and discussed today. And tomorrow, hopefully, we'll discuss law proposals for subterranean waters 410 rows. There, too, you know, there were serious problems with the application, especially at the point of measurement, in taking advantage of the underground waters. The proposals for him have been evaluated, and hopefully we'll figure that out tomorrow. Again, it is recommended that the international contract, which is close to 20, be brought to the front of the agenda, dear friends. It is recommended that the State Department's proposals on this issue be moved to this ranking. It's scheduled to work on Friday, so maybe it'll take longer to discuss these contracts. Your schedules on the agenda are 24. It is recommended that our Parliament continue its work until the end of the agenda if it is not completed by 00. I await your support for the proposal and salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0148par0222	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Mr. Muharrem İnce is against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0149par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. What are we seeing this week? Well, there's a thesis, there's funding for terrorism, there's information from the government, there's underground waters if it grows. I'm really sorry for the sad state of living. The legislation is made for the Turkish nation, and it cannot be transferred. Judgement is made in the name of the Turkish nation, carried out by independent courts. But the legislature is that the Speaker left -- he's taken the name of the dam -- he's not interested in any of this. See, I'll tell you how it works: the AKP law proposal for a 1-point amendment to the law on publicisation of law was sent to Parliament on 16 January 2013. Later, on 25 January 2013, AKP lawmakers submitted a two-point proposal for subterranean waters to the presidency. The Agricultural Commission also called a meeting of the Commission on January 30, 2013, on January 25, 2013, to discuss legislation proposals for underground waters that AKP and CHP lawmakers had previously submitted. The meeting is postponed because 2/B is being discussed in the General Assembly, and then, on 29 January 2013, AKP lawmakers again are sending a new 3 clause law proposal to the Parliament, which changes the law on the Law on Publicisation and the underwater waters. The Speaker of Parliament is handing over this proposal to the Commission at a jet speed on the same day. The Agricultural Commission called a meeting on January 31st, right after the proposal was made. This is to humiliate the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation; this is to underestimate the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation; this is to mock the legislature. My dear friends, look, there is no such way. I mean, you don't know the Civil Code, you don't know the Motherland, you don't know the law, you don't know the rules. This isn't a legislature, it's a notary, it's not a notary, it's a notary. I mean, even in the days of the sultans, there was a couch, there was a fatwa institution, there was no couch, there was no fatwa. It's a lot worse than that. I mean, this Parliament... I'm a member of the law, and so are you. It doesn't matter if it's a ruling or opposition party. You're a member of the living. This method, this practice, is an insult to living. It's as much an insult to the AKP lawmakers as it is to us. My dear friends, the 5 proposals regarding underground waters, the 6th bid is about publicisation in the Agriculture Commission... so, in the Foreign Commission, the problems of the potato producers, the problems of the students in the National Defence Commission, should be discussed like this. My dear friends, if you bring one of the five proposals into subterranean waters at the last minute, inadvertently bringing one of them in, inclusion of publicisation into it, and discuss formalisation in the Agricultural Commission, you will be unfair to members of the legislature, you will be disrespectful. So they have no knowledge of the law, never read the Civil Code, never participated in law enforcement? It's the Speaker who'll know, not the bureaucrats. The group that's going to do this is the vice presidents, the commissioners, the chairman of the House in the first place. My dear friends, I don't consider myself a member of the law to be disrespectful, so let anyone who looks at it go on. My dear friends, another matter, the government will inform and inform the Parliament today. Now, I'm going to ask you a question: have you seen patriots on TV? Have you seen the military convoys on TV? I'm talking to the people who saw it. If you've seen Patriots, foreign soldiers, their convoys on TV, I'm telling the people who have. My dear friends, I mean, I don't mean the Turkish soldier I call the soldiers, I mean the Hans, I mean the Coni. Did you or did you not see the Hans, Johnny, within the borders of the Republic of Turkey? If you have seen it, have you read the Constitution 92? So the departure of the Turkish Armed Forces abroad or the entry of foreign armed forces into Turkey is subject to Parliamentary approval; it is subject to your approval, ours, all of us, 550 people. If that doesn't happen, there's a constitutional offense going on here. I mean, here you've tricked people, you've tricked the Grand National Assembly, you've finally declared our lands NATO land. So, my question is, it's very simple. Let the officials of the ruling party come and answer my question: Is the base in the sphere a NATO base, an American base? This question is very clear. Have the times been handed over? If it was done, when was it done? Look, I'm asking you very clearly. The Turkish people, our nation, found out about the base in the Globecik, on September 15, 2011, on the White House website, what it is. So we didn't get it from the Prime Minister of this country, we couldn't get it from the Foreign Minister, but on September 15, 2011, we learned from the White House website that the base in the Globekic is not a NATO base, it's an American base. On 21 May 2011, US President Obama issued a statement about the radar in the Globecik, saying, "Look, on 21 May 2011, we will hand it over to NATO in due time." Since NATO will not be transferred to NATO, this is not a NATO situation. When you properly read 92, the constitution excludes NATO, where international law is required, and it says there is no need for Parliament's permission. But in your statements, in the statements made by the American authorities, there's a discrepancy in the statements made by the President of the United States. So, you didn't set up a NATO base there, that's another government base. In order to get another foreign armed forces into Turkey, within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, you must get the approval of parliament. You have not received the approval of the House, you have violated the Constitution, you have violated the Constitution, you have committed a constitutional offense. When the time comes, everyone will see it. My dear friends, Germany, have taken permission from the German Parliament to send German soldiers to Turkey, and the Netherlands has received permission to send troops to Turkey. I mean, why is it that when it comes to Turkey, one person decides these things? The entry of foreign armed forces into Turkey and the outgoing of Turkish Armed Forces are subject to parliamentary leave. So the German Parliament allows its own troops to go to Turkey, the Dutch Parliament argues, allows it to go to Turkey, but you decide alone when foreign armed forces come to Turkey. You have no right, you commit a crime, and sooner or later, you will be questioned. These House reports will be here 50 years from now, a hundred years from now, three hundred years from now. You deceived the people in this land, and you said: "We will have it. In two days, it will be in NATO. We will not pay for it. We will also pay for it. Our questions are very clear: when was it an American base? If it was transferred, when was it transferred to NATO? Question number two: who will these protect, Ahmed? Mehmet, Hasan, Hüseyini, or others? Three, who's gonna pay for this? You're going to explain these things in this House. So the government will come again, as a result of our warnings, to make a brief statement, but this work of the House does not seem to be in place, as if there is a law being made here, at least not to me. But you can be sure that when I came to this House 11 years ago, this Congress worked a hundred times healthier than it does today. In 11 years, you've altered the structure, even the genetics of the House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You have broken the law of the assembly, you have broken its statutes, you have broken its statutes, you have broken its ordinances, you have broken its tradition; you have broken it all. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0150par0244	Thank you. In favor of the Justice and Development Group's proposal, Mr. Salih Husband, the Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0151par0248	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I have made a pledge in favor of the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I salute your high council. The details of our group proposal have been detailed by our valued lawmakers. In accordance with our proposals this week, it is particularly planned to discuss our commission reports on the prevention of terrorism, the amendment of the Law on Underwaters, and the regulation of Electronic Trade, as well as the adoption of protocols and agreements between Turkey and some countries. The group feels it's appropriate that we complete this week's work according to our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0152par0252	Thank you very much, Mr. Husband. Against the Justice and Development Party's proposal, Mr. Recep is a member of the Isparta Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0153par0255	Even though I made a commitment against the AK PARTY group proposal, I'm not finding anything to talk about, I don't see it. I'll leave it to the public and the General Assembly to pay their respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0154par0257	Then why did you leave?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0152par0258	Thank you. I submit the group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0155par0260	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit03spe0152par0261	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm gonna take a five-minute break from the merger, then I'm gonna take another break.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit04spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 61st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote for the Justice and Development Party's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. Unit 20. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 61st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister has a thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations Security Council decisions adopted in 2008 on piracy/sea banditry and armed robberies in the areas of the Arab Sea and mujavir, the Gulf of Aden, the Gulf of Aden, Somalia and the coast of Somalia and its gaps, and its effective protection and the active participation of Turkish Armed Forces in the international community of the Turkish flag and Turkish-related ships in the area, as well as the international community's action against the armed robbery of the Grand National Assembly 10/2/2009 and international society. Turkish Armed Forces decision 934, which allows naval elements to operate in the region, has been extended by a year with Decision 1008, dated 25/1/2012, and will end on 10/2/2013. On the other hand, the UN Security Council's decisions on the issue of 21/11/2012 have been extended for a year with Decision No. 2077, dated 21/11/2012, which has led to the ongoing piracy of piracy and armed robbery in the Indian Ocean. In this scope, the Turkish Armed Forces shall extend the marine elements to the Gulf of Aden, Somali land waters and open areas, under Article 92 (92) of the Constitution, under the principle and basis set in the TBM Decision 934, dated 10/2/2009, to be assigned to the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who took the stand on the counter. On behalf of the groups: Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The other groups didn't give names. On behalf of the government: National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz. On behalf of individuals: Ankara MP Emrullah İslam, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu. The first statement is for the Peace and Democracy Party Group and for Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan (D.A.). Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0156par0018	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute you all. As-salaam alaikum... Dear friends, for how many times have we come to your presence, believe it or not, we've been surprised. The largest exports of the Republic of Turkey are soldiers. When a foreign analyst said, "They are the army." We had a huge reaction. Dear friends, we have not entered World War II with the principle of peace in yurtta, peace in jihanda. We have survived without incident, without trouble, and after that, we have often boasted that we have not brought our people into any war, except for a brief matter of Cyprus.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0157par0021	There's Korea too.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0156par0022	Our politicians have been saying this on the political stage for years, but there's no place in the world our army hasn't been. There's no need to go too far back. Let's start with the Korean thing. After World War II, a Korean issue arises, and thousands of their sons sacrifice their lives without knowing why they have gone, where they have gone, what ideal and what principle they have fought for. At that time, there were also great heroic stories, as the people call them, all of our brothers who lost their lives, and our citizens -- written false stories on the lives of these people with the literature of gassing. Dear friends, you can say: "Sir, we are a country, we have foreign connections, we have alliances, of course we must fulfill the obligations of our alliances. You can bring a defense in the form of a defense. The previous governments have brought a lot of defenses in this direction, but I ask you, have we asked the public seriously for all these years? There was a Rice Base in my hometown, where I was a congressman, my constituency district, Diyarbakır. Again, there has been an Incirlik Base in Adana for many years. There was Balgat Base in Ankara. There is another base in Sinop. What do they do, what do they do, what do they do, how do they manage? My dear, these are set under all international agreements. You can say, "Ooh, you can answer in your own way. " Well, today, here come the Patriots, the ones we've just been living with. Why did he come, where did he come from, how much did he come to, what need he came to, who will he be used against? Love is for those who know. Another base has been set up in Malatya Globecik, and it's still new. There he is, sir, not against Iran, not against this, not against this. So what's the reason? Is there a reasonable explanation? Dear friends, in a nutshell, from Afghanistan to Somalia, here are our troops all the way from today's topic to Somalia. Mr. Secretary, please come out and explain that a member of the power department is a friend of ours or who will take the stand after us. What is our army doing in Afghanistan? In fact, what is the project in Afghanistan? What do you want to do in Afghanistan? Who's fighting against who? Who's being protected from who? Who wants to get to who, what, what? Where are we in this? So if there's a reasonable answer, Mr. Secretary, let's say that this is the project in Afghanistan, that's what we're trying to do, that's what we're trying to do, that's the protected goals, that's the politics of the world, the United Nations, whatever it is, that's the policy of all concerned organizations, that they want to get there, and that's why we're helping them. That is our profit or loss. Guys, we have the same Somalia thing, it's been piracy for years. So, under the borders of hunger, the miserable, miserable people of Somalia, whatever it is, they're talking about some gangs. That's where they get ships, weapons, and piracy in international waters. You know, there's a classic ad, and if you'll excuse me, how do men with no food do it? Why does he do it? With whose support? What's he getting at? What scenario is he setting up at the bottom of the intended target? There's no answer to that either. I'll ask the Minister again. Our soldiers are here. I mean, where have these pirates from Somalia been getting their powers for years? Today, we cannot take a Kotra from Fenerbahçe Bay and go 10 kilometers away. So, personally, on behalf of the BDP Group, if we meet ten MPs, we can't get on a yacht, a cotra, and go 10 kilometers away. So, how does this work? How does it work? Part of what scenario? What do the international forces want to do there? Why is Somalia important? Strategically, the Gulf of Aden is the Persian Gulf, where 65 percent of the world's oil runs through the Persian Gulf. So, again, again, with all due respect, we're all being mocked by the intelligence of an entire House, and the intelligence of its mind, it's being used in the old term, it's being underestimated. I mean, there's pirates, they're not leaving the ships, the United Nations has decided, so we're going to shoot or stop these pirates! Well, you've been going to stop it for five years, six years, and why can't you stop it for seven years? What's the main thing to do? Why is this hungry, miserable, miserable Somalia so important? Tell us about it. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Minister of Economy, should go out and inform the Council on economics, defence and foreign policy. Our Minister of Foreign Affairs wrote a book called 500-600 pages, from India to China, from Ukraine to Antarctica, describing everything in the world. Why don't you tell me about this Somalia? Tell me about this Afghanistan. So let's see what these soldiers of ours are doing, why are they going, where they want to go, what part of what international policy is it becoming? Tell me all about it. If you can convince him, if there's anything reasonable, if there's enough use to fill the fig seeds, we'll give him our support, or we don't have to come up here and deny everything you bring. Dear friends, from the beginning, I'm afraid there's been an envelope, a gilded, glittering envelope in such a veiled politics. They show you that envelope, but what's in the envelope? Unfortunately, no one knows anything. Oh, and when you say no one knows anything, you and all of our friends here don't know anything, or we don't know anything, we read it. In Europe, in the U.S., in the United States, we're learning these scenarios, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's happening, what's happening, what's happening, what's happening, what's happening. But our reaction is, why should we learn about them from right and left, from street, from Samanpazari, from vendors? Our Prime Minister, our National Secretary of Defense, our Foreign Minister, would like to report a satisfactory report on these. That's the duty of this House. So, if this House is here to enjoy, or at work, let's bag up, let's kill time, here's to those who don't accept... let's go home after that. Shame on all of us if it's built for such a structure. Dear friends, if you don't inform the public, if you don't tell the truth, you won't get anywhere. So you could have power, you could have authority. At one point, there was the same situation in the Middle East. Again, there would have been voting on the 36th parallel, the Hammer Force, and in some way, those decisions would have been passed in the government's form. But look, an entire Middle East has come to form, and none of what the ministers, the prime ministers, the politicians, the authorities, have said has been true. It's all in the House records. These reports show what many politicians who spoke on behalf of their parties -- including today's President -- have said on that day. None of the analysis they did that day and the reasons they came up with were today. Different things have happened, and still different things are happening, and the Middle East is moving in another direction. Here, from the Patriots to the base in the Globe, wherever we're sending troops from Afghanistan to Somalia, and whatever military-political agreement we're signing under and doing what we need to do, this is where they do their most obvious explanations, not anywhere else. Dear friends, I'd like to take this opportunity to say a few more words about the issues of the Constitution that we're discussing today. Here, every time we discuss the Kurdish problem, every time we discuss Islam, religion, state, secularism, there's an immediate reaction: these, these, these can't happen. Let's have a discussion. So from basic language education, regional administration, election of governors, the presidential system, the autonomy of the dianete, whatever issues are there, let's discuss them, let's discuss them, let's decide what's right and wrong. No, you can't. Why? Sir, the founding will won't allow it. There is a founding philosophy of this country, of this state, of this founding will. The founding will and philosophy, which is its nature, will not allow these, these, these. And that's because we can't talk about our issues, which we can't argue about, which we can't solve any of our problems properly. See, I'm starting to sort out the lies about the founding will: 1) Who is the Founder's will? The founding will, in my opinion, is the will of all honorable individuals, who opened the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in Ankara on Friday (April 23, 1920). Some of them -- you know -- are the MPs who came to Ankara after the British raided the last Ottoman Assembly Mebusan, and the rest are the honorable MPs who came to Ankara with the complete selection of the missing. So, what happened to the other half? The British Parliament has raided and banished the MPs they captured to Malta Island. These are the people who were found on April 23, 1920, who were not taken to Malta, who were not ready in Parliament that day, and who somehow arrived in Ankara, and then were elected to take the place of those who went to Malta. 2) How did this Parliament open? On April 23, 1920, after praying at the Hajji Bayram Mosque, after the prayers were read, it was the Parliament that opened up to Ulus after the march of one person, one man, with blessings and prayers. 3) Is there a difference between Turkishness, Kurdish, and sect? No, he certainly doesn't have it, and after that, there's an Act on Actuality, which was adopted by this Assembly in 1921, which is considered our first Constitution. What is in this Constitution? I'll read you some of his articles. Article 7: The principle of law, such as the tenphysis of the law, the apocalypse of the evil, the apocalypse of the umum, the tasting, the dissolution and the act of peace, and the declaration of self-defense, belongs to the Grand National Assembly. • What do you mean by that? Turkey's Grand National Assembly is in charge of implementing Sharia law. That's Turkish for that. Here's something of founding will. Another article is the 11th article, when the Kurdish issue is being discussed. So, today, what did the government say about self-control, autonomy, regional governance, whether it's elected governor, whether it's a country divided or a state torn apart, what did the founding will say about it? What does the founding will say? 1921, our first Constitutional Law of the Organization, Article 11:... the province, its place, its spiritual character and its importance. External and internal politics, evil, legal and military Umum, brainelmilial economic engagement and the government's public monolith and monafia, rather than the province's responsibilities, and the administration of the Grand National Assembly of Finland, are the result of the conflict in Arabic, which will be defamed by the Council of Great Nations, Evkaf, Medaris, Maarif, Medici, Economics, Agriculture, Nafia and Muaveeti, as well as its administration, as well as its administration. I said it in as many Arabic words as possible. Dear friends, what does it say? He says that the provinces are the chief authorities. He divides them and separates their powers. It says: "Outside and domestic politics, evil, legal and military practices, international agreements are under the authority of the central government." So, what are the powers of the districts of the sovereign states? It has also been made very clear: Evkaf, Medaris, Maarif, Medici, Economics, Agriculture, Nafia and Surveillance Institution Affairs. Another statement of founding will. After that, the 14th article opens it up a little bit more. The governor has no more authority than the former term, when there is a conflict between the central government and the local government. Here we are, dear friends, from sending troops to Somalia, to the presidential system, to self-government, to religious and state relations, to secularism, to the nation's paradigm -- we can't get any further if we can't study them faithfully from the books -- from the fundamental philosophy of the founding will. In the Constitution of 1924... what is 1921 in 1924? In 1924, the Constitution takes place, there's a change there, but the subject of the religious nature of the law... is the subject of the principle of law, which is the responsibility of following and implementing the law by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey again in the Constitution of 1924, and that's the way it goes until 1928. The date of secularism to enter the Constitution is 1937. So if we can't talk about what's hidden from the nation in this way, in the papers, in the records, in the documents, there's another political cover-up and an act of play. Dear friends, again in this business, the debates about wealth and decentralisation have been going on for years. The matter of decentralisation and enterprise has been discussed from Morningtin to now, but our problems can't be solved, and every time we try to solve our problems, it's called interference or separatism. However, from April 23, 1920, we are faced with a completely different picture of how this republic was founded, how this Assembly was founded, how it was created. And we'll vote against Somalia, as a BDP Group, because we can't be convinced until the truth of these issues is properly spoken in this House. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0158par0046	Thank you, Mr. Tan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0159par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. We are here to discuss the government's statement that the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces will be extended for another year in the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters, the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. Last year, during the deployment, the Republican People's Party voted that navigation security in the Turkish Navy against piracy activities in the remembered areas would contribute to protecting it within the framework of a mission imposed on NATO from the United Nations. We'll vote positive again as the Republican People's Party for another year to extend this mission. Dear friends, the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Armed Forces have long had a serious reputation in the region mentioned in the thesis. In addition to the military duties of the Navy, a very important function is to present flags in international waters and protect our interests and interests at sea. During the imperial era, the third largest navy in the world during the Abdelazis, our Navy, who, for the first time in the history of the sea war, had been able to launch submarine ships, grow great sailors, and make great victories, then II. In the days of Abdulhamit, he was imprisoned against the palace, and his ships were slowly left to rot, to provide for his staff. Although our navy has occasionally survived this vile situation with the personal efforts of exceptional marines such as Mr. Rauf, the hero of Hamidiya, it has basically survived the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, and has now made a new name and place in the world, which has built its own ship and weapon in more than one shipyard. Even so, the practices of our navy, our Navy, our Navy, today that have forced the law of the command staff have, unfortunately, completely undermined our navy's command staff and brought the Turkish navy's readiness to battle to a very low level, making our fleet almost unwarranted. Today, about half of the Navy's admiral staff are imprisoned and some of them are convicted in prisons. In recent days, with an unacceptable conspiracy against himself, it would be possible for the naval commander, who has asked for his retirement in response to the situation I'm talking about, to command an oramiraline to the Navy on the next 30 August, with the extension of the current commander's mandate or the promotion of the only admiral to the Admiralty in 2009. In that case, a commander-in-chief of the Navy will be appointed as acting commander, whose staff will be the admiral. That's the case with almost all of the other major Navy command staffs. Mr. Arinc, the Deputy Prime Minister, has made a statement that there will be no problem, that there will be no shortage of government promotions and appointments, which the current command staff will see fit when it comes to appointing a military commander in August. Because appointments in the Armed Forces can't be made by election and commissions to find a manager for a company. A general or admiral grows in at least twenty-five years; his rankings and conditions can be earned through the duties of the continent commander and headquarters. In order to become a general candidate for an officer who graduated from a military school in his 21-22-year-old school with a bachelor's degree, he must study four more years in his career -- a year's basic or piloting course, six months' training at the Harp Academy, two years' military Academy, and six months' training at the Academy of Armed Forces. In order to become an officer, admiral or general candidate for these trainings, he has to serve four years as a platoon commander, six years as a base officer in the Navy, two years as a battalion commander in the Navy, the fleet in the Air Force, the Army in the Army, and two years as a commanding officer in the Air Force, the regiment in Kara and the gendarmes. General, most admirals are also experienced abroad for three years. This vocational mandatory training process is not unique to the Turkish Armed Forces, and it is the same with all other modern armies. After all, a 21 - 22 - year - old military officer must spend at least 21 years planning an ideal career to become a general or admiral. Today, an officer of the upper career process can legally become a general or admiral in the fifth year of his colonelship. In other words, it's not possible for every colonel to be an admiral when needed. Because in the professional process of an admiral's candidate, a general has standards to meet in every rank. Dear friends, the practice faced in our legal system today is expected to result in a trial process in which employees who have been detained for one day as required by Article 36/6 of the Military Staff Act 926 are expected to be granted promotion or phase progress, which is why the prisoners or rights I'm talking about upstairs have suffered a great loss in terms of autonomy rights. And in the event that they're acquitted, as long as I'm saying it's up there again, there's no way that these people can make up for their victims because of the currents. Because, as I said, for example, for an officer to become a general, at least a year of battalion, fleet, ship's command is required. Since this mission was carried out in the rank of commander, the officers who later took their rank and became colonels cannot return, and since they did not serve as battalion commanders, they lose the rank of admiral and general. The same problem exists for arrested personnel in the general rank, and when officers who cannot be promoted to a rank because they are under arrest during their promotions, it is inevitable that the Turkish Armed Forces will face an unacceptable situation under human resources management, such as forced promotion of what remains. It seems that the Turkish Armed Forces has finally caught the Prime Minister's attention because of the long-term detentions. The Prime Minister has recently voiced that the long arrests have hit the Turkish Armed Forces' fight against terrorism, that there are no officers left to fight terrorism, but that there is no need for legal regulation to find a solution to the situation, and that the third package provides sufficient legal opportunities for this. I'm afraid that's not true, my friends. Although the Prime Minister's speech almost solved the prospect of a problem, the problem is not a problem that can be solved with such a statement, it will not be possible to resolve it without the necessary legal arrangements. That's why it's important for the High Council to take the initiative, which should not be overlooked. Otherwise, this problem in the soft belly of our army and our national security has a quality that can be a source of real disaster. Because, as I'm trying to explain, even if proper officers are allowed to be tried without arrest, there is no way that these personnel can function effectively under the existing law. As I briefly summing up above, abbreviated arrests cannot prevent the removal of the rights of the Armed Forces personnel, who have been arrested and should be declared innocent until their guilt is stable in accordance with the universal masinity of the Turkish Armed Forces, which prevents the proper form of the command staff. In this regard, it is imperative that the High Assembly make a thorough study of all aspects of the matter and make the necessary legal arrangements in a multi-directional way. On the other hand, I want to draw your attention to another situation against the arrested Armed Forces personnel that violates another universal law code that says one crime can only be a punishment. The suspension of promotions and gradual progress due to imprisonment means implementation of administrative punishment on the arrested staff before their trial is concluded. From my earlier statements, we have found that the results of pre-government sentences, due to the structure and fundamentals of the Turkish Armed Forces, and the reasons stemming from the Staff Law, are permanent. This also results in two punishments for both administrative and judicial procedures for those who were arrested and later convicted by the court. A legal solution must be found. Dear friends, since the latest promotion of the Armed Forces was made on August 2012, let's take a look at the situation in which the command staff was present just prior to that date. This will show us a much more concrete picture of the Turkish Armed Forces in preparation for war. At the beginning of August 2012, the Turkish Armed Forces had 669 prisoners of the existing 362 generals and admirals. One of the five generals in the Air Force and one of the two admirals in the Navy were arrested. The total number of arrested generals in the Army reached 14 per cent, 21 per cent in the Air Force, 44 per cent in the Navy. This general picture shows very painfully the situation in which the Turkish Armed Forces have fallen in preparation for war. In particular, the fate of the situation in the Navy exceeds words. This, my dear friends, is a situation that can bring with it a severe impact on the security of our country and its role in the region and in the world, far beyond the personal right violation of our officers who are under arrest and have been violated. The ground forces are a force that operates within our borders as its primary weight and constitutes the backbone of the national defense. More than that, the Navy and the Air Force are a key element of stability and deterrent in international waters and airspace. We also see a specific example of this on the basis of the thesis that we are working on today. With ships and planes in the inventory of our Navy and Air Force, various weapons systems today are the number and number that can match modern world armies in any area. Of course, that applies to our Army, but when the Turkish Armed Forces' command team, especially our Navy and Air Force, is disabled, the resources and capabilities of these forces fall back and our forces are pushed out of the game plan. In the end, these cases seem to have set a course for Turkey's modern and powerful fleet, which could compete with the world's fleets. Thus, for the past thirty and forty years, the national resources invested in aircraft, ships, and weapons systems have been wasted, making great sacrifices for the welfare of our people. Dear friends, when I say waste of national resources, I want to bring to your attention one more important thing. I regret to inform you that the Poolship Project, which was on the agenda of the Defence Industry Executive Committee, gathered on January 3, 2011, is a strong and concrete example of the rule's lack of principle in this matter. As a reason for the Poolship Project, the government has suggested that the Turkish Navy needs a structured force capable of performing operations in crisis areas, capable of disaster and humanitarian aid, which can react suddenly in the face of variable events. My friends, while we are having trouble finding commanders to command our own navy in our own seas, what will we use this ship for in what open seas? A ship like this is a need based on what concept of national defense? The answers to these questions will not be enough to convince the people who brought the project, which includes irrelevant elements such as disaster and humanitarian aid. Indeed, the position of our country, surrounded by seas, provides a unique geostrategic advantage in all operations in the Aegean, Mediterranean, and Black Sea, as well as in doing the duty of a natural base and, of course, an aircraft carrier. Turkey's unique position, naturally invalidating the need to transfer power to distant distances in the areas of rights and interests within our national goals and the grounds for the supply of an air-accessive vehicle and a multi-purpose pool ship (LPD), which has broad volumes and capabilities, and for which humans can be sheltered for a certain period of time. The reason for the $3-4 billion pool-sourcing tender is incompatible with national security needs and the country's reality. Since such landing ships are specifically designed for the purpose of amphibious operations across the ocean, is the government planning to extend its fictional foreign policy based on its bases to the amphibious operations across the ocean? These types of combat ships are for extraction operations outside the motherland's support distance. For this reason, these ships are the preferences of marine forces such as the United States, Britain, France, Russia, China, or the overseas interests, with national interests, or the strategic goal and economic interests of trans-ocean geography. As confirmed on the AKP's official website, the pooled landing ship (LPD) is originally available in only 7-8 countries in the world. Besides, there's no way to operate in crisis areas in the face of events that vary in distances with one LPD. Operation Peace of Cyprus, a stone-throwing distance, is the best proof of this need for strength. For a long-distance offshore operation, we need sufficient landing ships and power. To do that, a minimum amphibious brigade should be able to be moved, which requires at least a three-pool extraction ship, a minimum of 10 to 12 billion dollars. Therefore, let us abandon these uncertain dreams, and first focus on gathering our own navy in the Mediterranean, friends. Look, if you'll be careful, for the past few years, in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Russian fleet has been able to play any horse they want, including any other. Mr. Prime Minister, when the Greek Cypriot administration declares its own unique economic zone and signs bilateral agreements with Israel, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, and launches joint searches with Israel in one of the marine areas, we will send our frigates, our offensive boats. The failure of the RF-4 reconnaissance aircraft, which recently resulted in the martyrdom of two of our precious pilots in the Eastern Mediterranean, is a very concrete symptom of the problems in the command control system of the Turkish Armed Forces. Dear friends, this can be explained by a very simple analysis of the battle preparation criteria. Generally, the most important parameters of the criteria for combat capabilities used in world armies include fire, armor, sea, air and air defenses, communication, command control are the command system and command team. No matter how powerful an army you have from firepower to air force to naval power, if your command control system and command committee are not enough, your army will not have the capacity to operate. To make a simple analogy, the command control system and the command committee's respect for the army can be compared to the transfer organs of a vehicle and the description of the steering wheel. Just as the transport organs and steering systems are malfunctioning, no matter how powerful a vehicle is, and if it can't move, the command committee will be unable to function the same way. As a result, the problem of dear friends, arrested generals and admirals is the soft belly of our army and our national security. We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should all focus seriously on this issue before it causes a serious disaster. Imagine if every commander in the Turkish Armed Forces could blame me for the order and the decision I'm going to make, and how I'm going to accomplish this task, and how I'm going to plan it, and how I'm going to do it, before I do a test of how I'm going to do it, the prosecutor could blame me for the decision I'm going to make, what he's going to do? How he's going to do the analysis of the question. All of our regular commanders, as with their retired friends, are still under the influence of the lack of morale of their fellow prisoners. Depressed, depressed armed forces can't do what these armed forces require, can't do their duty. It's the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, of you, of us, to give them this morale, my friends. The government must quickly stop complaining about the defects in its own hands and make amends, set up democratic control over the army, but this must be established under the rule of law and the principles of modern democracy, without delay measures to boost the confidence of the Turkish Armed Forces, and develop ways to quickly end the unlawfulness and oppression of the Turkish Armed Forces. Once again, in the Gulf of Aden, in the land waters of Somalia and in the Arab Sea and in the mujavir zones, the fleet commander, commodore, even the ship's commander who will be in command in this short period, warns the government that we will be forced to find them; in this framework, I say to them, let the Aden Bay, Somali land waters, the heroic commander of our ships, our floating troops, the officer, the petty officer, and the private staff, be successful in their important tasks; let there be a sea, a wind, your prud. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0160par0072	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Münir Kutluata of Sakarya. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0161par0076	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Prime Minister's thesis on the extension of a year of Turkish Armed Forces naval elements in order to support international efforts to combat piracy, sea bandits, armed robberies, the Gulf of Aden, Somalia land waters and deficits to deploy the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. The Gulf of Eden between Somalia and Yemen is one of the number of sea trade routes in the world. The fact that the Gulf of Aden and its vicinity are no longer a safe transit area, that it is increasingly a scene of piracy has soon made the issue a problem for the international community. The first thesis in this area was issued in 2009 in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was extended year after year. Today's topic is the fourth extension of the thesis. More than 500 piracy incidents occurred in the region at the end of 2008, while the first thesis was held in 2009, and three Turkish ships were seized. Details of the issue are included in the 2009 Turkish Grand National Assembly resolution, for the first time. In the report, the sea areas where such actions took place are also heavily used by Turkish merchant ships. The threat to our commercial ships and to our citizens who are in charge of them has also gained a dimension that has negatively affected the commercial and economic interests of our country. The same decision also mentions the reasons for the prevalence of piracy in the Gulf of Aden region. The lack of public order in Somalia has been a key factor to prevent pirates, sea bandits and armed robbers from operating and being tried in a very large sea area, and from having an active struggle with the international community with naval bandits and armed robbery. The veracity and complexity of the problem require that the international community act jointly with an inclusive approach, that international measures be taken again and implemented effectively. It is stressed that no country alone has the ability or the ability to cope with this problem. Under that understanding, the United Nations Security Council adopted five decisions in 2008, which discussed the issue directly. The European Union launched a sea operation in the region on 08/12/2008 under the name Atalanta. Britain, France, Greece, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Sweden and Spain were involved in this operation. The region also includes military ships belonging to the United States, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, India, Japan, South Korea and Australia, and operates from individual operations. Highly valued lawmakers have been known to serve within the United Nations, NATO, the European Union, the International Maritime Service in many parts of the world, in these frameworks. During the AKP's rule, it is considered to be where, by various means, the Turkish army is being served through these agencies every year, as well as how. These services are usually referred to through the Turkish military, including Turkey's initiatives in international security and contributions to international peacekeeping and support operations. From Afghanistan to Lebanon, to Sudan, to the Gulf of Aden, to the protection of oil vessels in the Mediterranean, the Turkish army is bound in the protection of the Turkish nation's unity and the fight against separatist terrorism; its troops are imprisoned in outposts, its commanders in Silivri. From time to time, where the Turkish army is considered to have seen and served no service in the world, we all know that these services are one expression, and they mean nothing in the form of what they are today. This could have mattered after we'd secured Turkey's own security. While the country's own security is being destroyed by the government, there's no question of what my army is serving somewhere. The Turkish army, carrying important tasks by the government all over the world, is being guarded by trade ships, providing protection for oil ships, not to mention the protection of cruise ships carrying Turks. The incident that Israel was attacked in international waters was also considered a cause of war by the power, so it appears that the government has made Turkey a country that is not afraid of its army. Sending only a military commander to the Syrian border in advance is sufficient to demonstrate Turkey's power, while in this period of power, no one will even consider the collapse of tank troops to the border and further declarations. Injured Syria may have the courage to shoot down the Turkish fighter. Just as the media has been informed, the Turkish fighter is being shot down, the government doesn't know it's been shot down; it doesn't know who dropped it; it's said who dropped it, it can't explain how it was dropped; they explain it, it doesn't know where it's been dropped; it's been identified by others, and this time it's too weak to get our martyrs out of the sea. Maintaining the reputation of the Turkish army means protecting the reputation of the Turkish nation. And we can't imagine that power will have a desire to preserve the reputation of a nation that is disturbed by its history and its existence. Congressmans, this is an easy argument, an argument the government would like to implement; NATO has its interests, the United Nations is interested in, the European Union has its interests, of course, our interests. In that sense, it is a practical thesis, a mild thesis. If it concerns the Turkish nation directly, then we cannot see the political will to implement it. As easily understood, I refer to the thesis on northern Iraq, which has been being released every year since 2007. I think that's the reason why we should look at the outcome of these counteroffensive terrorist threats against Turkey and how the threat today has taken over our country and the government. Although these arguments were made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a need to be a state in accordance with the Turkish nation's expectations, its practices were damaged by the government by the invention of trans-ocean forces, the moral character of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Today, when we look back at the coming point, it is clear that both the power and the subject world forces are unwilling to be weakened by the terrorist organization. The government has resisted to avoid terrorism, and the United States has devised a way to distract and divert our nation for the sake of the government. With this method of negligence shaped by the concept of instant intelligence, the United States would give power instant intelligence on terrorist nests north of Iraq, and the government would do its due. Fiction is perfect. As soon as the terrorists retreated into their caves, the last terrorist entered, intelligence was given to the government, and the government managed by throwing a few bombs at the mountain, until the terrorist organization had the courage to set up a negotiating table. In view of what the emergence of the painting suggests, the period of the North Iraqi treaties has passed, rather than disbanding terrorist camps, waiting for the terrorist organization to be macheted outside and inside. In 2002, a terrorist organization, which dropped to zero, put the government on the table today to dictate its separatist demands. As it comes to this point, it seems that power is more disturbed by the terrorist organization's divisive demands than its weapon, because it is expected that it is trying to act faster than the organization to fulfill its demands. When the organization mines all over the place, it's a matter of why the government has to stand by and explain why the government has to stand by while a large number of soldiers are raided and martyred every month, while the area is dominated and our security forces can't be allowed on the ground. Despite numerous raids and countless martyrs, I'd like to ask how many terrorist camps have been raided during the time of the AKP's power over the past ten years? But before the month passed, Turkish soldiers' outposts were raided and watched. It seems that the AKP has spent its time in order to say, "What can we do? We can't cope. Let's just accept separatist demands." In the process, the fight against terrorism has not been cut out of the tongue, but it has been tried to create a negotiating environment by being diluted more and more daily. Those who were unaware of blessing the terrorist organisation and its separatist demands have also been simultaneously seeking to investigate the Turkish army, discredit it, and undermine its resolve to fight. Talking about the ceasefire, the drop of weapons, the betrayal of a separatist organization to make it look like it's the equivalent of Turkish security forces and their army, which, on the other hand, was not enough for the abomination and humor of efforts, which, on the other hand, the commanders of the Turkish army had been declared a terrorist and tried to lower the reputation of Turkish security forces. In both ways, the Turkish army was attacked, and in both ways, the terrorist organization was supported. All of this has brought to a point where the AKP must be questioned again whether it is in the fight against the separatist terrorist organization or if it is in the target unit. As a result, we must first know that the Turkish army exists to protect the survival of our nation's territorial integrity, to silence our enemies outside and internal. Once he's done his original function, he'll be able to take advantage of the Turkish army, of course our army, in various parts of the world, and again, in the interest of our nation. But while our army has tied up and strengthened the enemy's hand and oppressed the Turkish army, it has disgraced the Turkish army, from the other side in certain parts of the world, under the name of these groups and under these agreements, it has not been a cause of pride for us to be called. In this respect, I have, on this occasion, had the opportunity to point out once again the difficulty of our army. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0162par0092	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Volcano Bozır. Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0163par0096	Mr. President, I stand before you on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to explain the reasons for the dissertation given to the Supreme Assembly of Turkish Armed Forces in the fight against naval bandits and piracy, in order to extend its one-year leave to the government on January 25, 2012. I salute you all. The African horn region, including Eritrea, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Kenya, Somalia, is an international geography that has been missing peace and stability for many years and has been on the agenda of interstates and tribal conflicts and continues to be on the agenda of the international community because of these developments. Its proximity to the Middle East and the Gulf has made the Horn of Africa one of the strategic regions of the African continent; it has held the world's powerful countries at attention in history and staged conflicts. The borders of African horns, drawn by colonial countries, are also the basis for problems today. Problems such as sea bandits, terrorism, refugee raids from the region are of great interest to the international community. There are serious border disputes between Ethiopia, Eritrea, Eritrea, Djibouti, Eritrea, Yemen, Kenya, and Kenya, and Uganda. In order to better understand the problem, I find it helpful to look briefly at the region and troubled countries. The border disputes with Ethiopia, Djibouti and Yemen were still unresolved by Eritrean's neighbouring countries, who declared independence from Ethiopia in 1993. Ethiopia and Eritrean fought in 1998-2000 due to the border dispute. About 70,000 people died in this war. Eritrea has supported armed opposition groups in Djibouti and Sudan, particularly because of the border dispute, and continues to support the El Shebab organisation in Somalia. Eritrea is increasingly exposed to UN Security Council sanctions because of the hostile attitude towards its neighbours and especially because it supports opposition armed groups in Somalia. The effort, which isolated Eritrean from the international community, is expressed by Ethiopia. In the border areas of Kenya and Ethiopia with Somalia, there are Somali origins. Kenya and Ethiopia administrations perceive the Somali presence in border regions as a security threat. On the other hand, the dream of a great Somalia among the nationalist Somalis, including a portion of Kenya and Ethiopia. In the Ogaden region of Ethiopia, which forms the border zone with Somalia, the Ogaden National Liberation Front continues to fight against the administration of Addis Ababa. Because of Ogaden, Ethiopia and Somalia fought in 1977 and 1978. In addition to these confusions, the African horn has suffered the most severe hunger and drought crisis in the last 60 years since July 2011. About 13 million people in the region were affected by the food crisis. For the first time in 30 years, the United Nations has declared hunger in some parts of South Somalia. The biggest security issue on the antlers of Africa is the ongoing internal conflict environment and the human crisis of famine and drought, which has been ruled in the country over the past 20 years as a result of no central administration in Somalia. Due to the recent drought and famine, hundreds of thousands of Somalis live in refugee camps and in neighbouring countries. The presence of numerous Somali refugees has become a risk of economic and security for neighbouring countries. In order to end the internal conflict in Somalia, the military intervention of the United States of America in 1993 and Ethiopia in 2006 did not result. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been a security threat to the international community in recent years -- the Indian Ocean, the Red Sea and the Suez Canal -- a serious threat to the freedom of navigation on the roads that I'm trying to present from the complex causes and drought. Looking at the problem from the perspective of Turkey, it is possible to make the following assessments: The Ottoman Empire began sea flights to the region in the 16th century against colonial countries heading towards East Africa. The Republic of Turkey has never adopted Western colonial understanding, and Turkey's approach is to strive for the development of the region's people in peace. Our country's Somali policy also shows a distinct difference of perspective from the African policy between us and the West. Turkey is also closely associated with countries in the ancient Ottoman Horn region today. Political and economic relations are growing day by day on the common ground of history and culture that extends its origins back to the past. The balance in bilateral economic relations favours our country. Today, Turkish Airlines flies directly to Nairobi, Addis Ababa, Mogadishu and Djibouti. Turkey considers Ethiopia a strategic partner in the African horn. Relationships between the two countries develop in all areas. The double trade volume reached $318 million in 2011. Mutual high-level visits give bilateral relations momentum. Turkish companies' investments in Ethiopia are worth $3.2 billion. Relations with Kenya, another major country in the region, are developing smoothly. In 2010, the total volume of foreign trade -- about $100 million -- reached $200 million in 2011. From the summer of 2011, when drought and famine were the most severe, our relations with Somalia became one of the priorities of our foreign policy. Turkey's Somali policy is based on a comprehensive strategy. Human aid, development and reconstruction, the political process and security, the main feature of this holistic strategy of military dimensions, is that each dimension is carried out simultaneously because of the fact that there is a mutual dependency between the elements. Peace and stability in Somalia can be established with a true national reconciliation between tribes and regions, a fact of the country. In addition to Mogadishu, which ensures that national reconciliation can be reached, we believe that development and reconstruction projects in local governments and regions should be carried out simultaneously with the political process. Without improvement in the basic needs of the Somali people, there will be no improvement in the process of political reconciliation or sustainability of this development. Stability and development must first be provided at the local level, in the daily life of the people. The policies that will be followed without winning the Somali people's trust will have no chance of success. With that understanding, Turkey prioritizes reconstruction and development projects across the country, starting with Mogadishu. Eritrea has had serious problems with African-thorn countries and has been rejected and subjected to sanctions by the international community. Turkey advocates dialogue with Eritre (Eritre), which provides solutions to problems in the region, and Eritrea (Eritre) argues that the problems with its neighbours can only be resolved peacefully, and that Eritrean's exclusion will not benefit. Close relations between our country and Eritrea also allowed Eritrea to make friendly recommendations and attempts to mediate with the third parties in order for our country to develop relations with its neighbours from time to time. The history of our relations with Djibouti extends back to the Ottoman Empire. Djibouti has opened an embassy in our country, and our country is scheduled to open the Djibouti embassy this month. There is no political problem in bilateral relations. The port of Djibouti has strategic significance in the region. It also uses the port of Djibouti, a multinational naval force that serves in the region to combat sea bandits. Our ships, including the Turkish naval task force, visit Djibouti Harbor from time to time. Yemen, the region's Yemen, is undergoing a historic democratic transformation process, which was signed on 23 November 2012 in Riyadh. We consider the CIC initiative a significant step towards regional ownership of problems. Yemen has the potential to model the region for a peaceful transition. In the next four or five years, we will spend our $100 million in assistance to Yemen to support development and humanitarian projects. We are also prepared to work with international actors to support the democratic transition process. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to proceed with a brief assessment of the matter of sea bandits, piracy. The Suez Canal, the Red Sea, and the Gulf of Eden are passing 30,000 commercial ships annually. These transitions correspond to about 20 per cent of the world's trade with about two trillion dollars per year. With about $315 billion a year, it also covers 40 per cent of the world's oil exports. 30 per cent of the oil that comes to Europe, 18 per cent of the total oil and oil products that come to the United States and Europe pass through this region. In 2012, a total of 19,317 ships from the Gulf of Aden and Somali basins crossed the Turkish flag and linked to Turkey. As of 2012, 20 per cent of Turkey's foreign trade, $57.8 billion, comes from the transitional sea trade of the Gulf of Aden. As it turns out, the sea areas where these actions took place are one of the main routes of international sea trade, and are heavily used by Turkish merchant ships and Turkish crew foreign flag ships. Marine bandits, piracy and armed robberies against commercial ships in the Gulf of Aden, Somalia land waters and offshore, continue to be a matter of international security. A total of 30 naval bandits have been carried out in four operations against marine bandits in the last year by our naval forces in the region, and a total of 165 marine bandits have been neutralized in 24 operations from July 2009 to today. In addition, ships belonging to various countries were protected and escorted, and attempts to attack were blocked. In May 2009 and September 2010, the United Task Force, which was established at the international level to fight these actions, was commanded by our country for three months. Thus, for the first time outside NATO, our country led a multinational coalition force at sea. The command of CTF-151, which was handed over to Denmark by Pakistan on January 12, 2012, was taken over by our country for the third time during the September 2012 December 2012 period. Our frigates operating in the region are taking every precaution and co-ordinating necessary to ensure safe passage of Turkish flag and Turkish-connected commercial ships. Despite these issues I have provided, the risk remains that our merchant ships in the region will encounter similar cases. The grounds for legitimacy for international community's close co-operation and co-ordination have been strengthened by various decisions made by the United Nations Security Council in recent years, aimed at co-fighting these actions. The international community's decisions on the United Nations Security Council, which constitutes the basis of the fundamental legal basis for its fight against the territorial waters of this country, on the coast of Somalia, have been extended for one more year with Resolution 2077, dated 21 November 2012. Our country has been actively contributing to 13 frigates so far, transforming to CTF-151, provided that NATO's Permanent Navy and our Parliament have allowed the government to carry out its duty to combat sea bandits. It still serves as a celestial frigate in the region. In addition to the frigates, Turkey's merchant ships are closely monitored and are aware that transiting merchant ships are being carried out by the Marine Corps Command to conduct a safe course, implementing protective measures. Military activities in the region are also being briefed and alerted to our naval sector through our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, as well as to the measures needed to be taken, the threat situation, and the current developments. During the past period, concrete, complementary steps have been taken in the civilian plan as well as in order to ensure the safety of commercial ships connected to our country, which have been observed in the Gulf of Eden and off the coast of Somalia. Our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications has established the Marine Bandit Information System, where information on Turkish flagships and related commercial ships can be registered with the contributions of our Naval Command. Thus, an electronic co-direction and information sharing platform was also created between our naval forces in the field and our commercial ships. Again, our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications provides the largest knowledge of the Turkish naval sector, with the best implementation of the International Maritime Service in order to avoid or repel potential piracy attacks or in case they find them. Mr. President, our country, which refers to the development of international cooperation in the fight against naval bandits, piracy and armed robbery, actively participates in and contributes to efforts carried out by the United Nations, NATO, the European Union and the International Maritime Organization. In this approach, our country has also joined the International Contact Group, which was formed under Security Council Resolution 1851. With these ideas, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Turkish Armed Forces established on February 10, 2009, in accordance with the principles and principles established by the Grand National Assembly Decision 934, dated February 2, 2010, February 7, 2011, February 7, 2011, February 25, 2012, and by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Supreme Assembly of 1008, and until 10 February 2013, I submit a disapprehension of the mission to fight naval bandits and armed robbery in the Gulf of Aden, Somali land waters and deficits, and to be extended for another year, as of February 10, 2013. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0164par0124	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. On behalf of the government, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of National Defence.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0165par0127	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are standing before you in the presence of the Turkish Armed Forces to extend our Parliament's support for international efforts to combat naval bandits and armed robberies off the coast of Somalia, in order to extend its one-year leave to the government on January 25, 2012 and with the decree 1008, I salute you all. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been described as an international crime in the international naval law and the 1982 United Nations Convention on Maritime Law. In accordance with this basic legal framework, the United Nations Security Council has authorized the United Nations member states to take all necessary precautions, as long as they co-operate with the Somali government. In addition to political instability and poverty in the region, sea bandits are also involved in the international agenda. It also threatens international trade and navigation security. The sea areas where these actions took place are one of the main routes of international sea trade, and are also heavily used by Turkish merchant ships and Turkish crews, foreign flag ships. In the Gulf of Aden, Somali landwater and commercial ships in the Indian Ocean, the acts of naval bandits and armed robberies threaten the safety of life and property and promote the freedom of navigation, effectively affecting international trade and shipping transport. These illegal actions, which also consolidate the shipping of humanitarian aid to Somalia and African countries, continue to take place on the international agenda as a global security issue. Turkey follows a peaceful, primitive and effective security policy, both as a single force and through its international institutions. In this regard, our country demands that the international community act jointly, international measures be taken and implemented in the fight against the naval bandits we're talking about today. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have strengthened the legality of the international community to facilitate close co-operation and co-operation with these actions, which the United Nations Security Council first made in 2008 and extended year after year after year. The legal basis for the international community's struggle with naval bandits off the coast of Somalia, including the landwaters of this country, is the decisions of the United Nations Security Council, and is extended for another year by the United Nations Security Council's decision, dated 21 November 2012 and 2077. Our country has supported the efforts of 13 frigates to combat sea bandits in the region so far. The NATO task force is still participating in Operation Ocean Shield with the Gökova frigate. In this scope, the MV Gaza, Burak A, Amal S, Dadallı, Aqua, who had been assigned to the ships in Somalia for humanitarian aid against the drought, has been safely transported by our frigate in the area. Over the past year, two merchant ships, Ottoman Equity and Aqua Star, have been attacked by sea bandits, and the Marine Corps Command Operations Centre has prevented sea bandits from taking over ships, as a result of co-ordination and measures made by the elements in the region. In addition, ships belonging to various countries were protected and escorted, and attempts to attack were blocked. In addition to frigates, Turkey's trading ships are closely monitored, and transiting merchant ships are aware that they are safe to navigate by implementing protective measures. This framework provides recommendations for the protection and support of Turkish-related merchant ships in close co-operation with foreign warships operating in the region, and our naval sector is informed through our ministry of transport, Maritime and Communications, regarding military activities in the region, the threat of naval bandits, the measures needed to be taken, and the current developments. A total of 70 ships have been attacked in Somalia, the Gulf of Eden, and the Arab Sea in the last year. Eight of these ships have been abducted. As a result of effective measures taken by our elements in the region, no Turkish ships have been hijacked since March 2010. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, current anti-sea bandits activities in the region are in common with NATO, the European Union, the United States and national controlled China there, Russia there, and many other countries' ships there, as well as in India, to ensure that the international trade route is safe and securely open to international trade. The Ocean Shield Operation in the region, currently under way, has been joined by the Gökova frigate since 9 December 2012, and any measures to ensure safe passage of Turkish flag and Turkish-connected merchant ships from the region are being taken and the necessary activities are being carried out. In this framework, the measures and warnings required by merchant ships to implement against sea banditry continue to be updated and announced to the naval sector by monitoring developments in the region. The passage of merchant ships through the region is followed and allowed the merchant ships to continue in the custody of military convoys. Other countries operating operations in the region are collaborating closely with naval ships, with instructions and recommendations for the protection of Turkish flag and Turkish-related merchant ships. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, in parallel with the efforts of our government to combat naval bandits, continue their aid to Somalia without slowing down because it believes that the real solution to the matter of the naval bandit is not on the sea, but on land. The solution to the matter of sea banditry is only possible when Somalia and Africa are at peace and prosperity. With this real action, our government has taken an active role in Somalia. Mr. Prime Minister's visit is the concrete indicators of this policy, which we have seen opening our embassy in Mogadishu, and gathering over $300m in aid to this country, and hosting the Somali Conference in Istanbul from May 31st to June 2012 and an international Somali Core Group meeting led by the British presidency on January 18, 2013. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are a requirement for our national interests that our country, like America, Russia, China, will continue to exist in the growing region of strategic importance. In accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, the Turkish Armed Forces' decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey established on February 10, 2009 and on the basis of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's decree of 1008, which has been established in accordance with Article 934 and on the principle established by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, which has been extended for one year until February 10, 2013, I would like to present to you the grandest of our country's honour for its mission to fight sea bandits and armed robbery, the Gulf of Eden, the Gulf of Somali land waters, and the coasts of Somalia, and the mujavir regions, the assembly of India, to extend once more over a year from 10 February 2013, and to make the necessary arrangements.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0166par0140	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the individuals, Ankara MP Emrullah Business. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0167par0144	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. I have taken the oath of the State of Turkey's Government on the basis of the first resolution of a year's leave given to our government on February 10, 2009, February 2, 2010, February 7, 2011 and February 10, 2012, to deploy the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces in the Gulf of Aden, Somali land waters and open areas, in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. The Gulf of Aden has a strategic and geographical position that connects the Arabian Peninsula to the Mediterranean basin in the north-south-north direction and the Indian and Far East basin. On this occasion, the ruling centers of Yemen also controlled the Gulf of Eden with their political and military powers. The city of Eden is particularly important for the control of overseas trade, both the Gulf and the region, due to its geographical advantages. Because, throughout history, the Gulf of Aden has provided political and cultural interaction, particularly the trade between these regions. The Arabian Peninsula also controls the Aden, India, and the Far East seas, which have the most natural port of the Red Sea and the Red Sea. In recent years, the Gulf of Aden has held an important agenda for the world's public with acts of sea piracy in the region. Although piracy acts in the region have been a reality since ancient history, in recent years, political and economic instability in Somalia and other regional countries and the fact that the majority of the people are below the poverty line encourages people to become bandits. In parallel, the rise in shipjackings and the change in nature of actions have laid the groundwork for major forces to increase military assets in the region in order to fight pirates. The security and commercial strategic importance of the Gulf of Aden and the Strait of Babulmendep, shows that each state must have a meaningful and comprehensive sea strategy in foreign policy. The Gulf of Aden is one of the world's most important waterways, with 14 per cent of world shipping and 26 per cent of oil transport from the sea. That is why there have been many piracy incidents in the Gulf of Eden. The frequency and quality of piracy activities in the Gulf of Eden has changed over the last few years. The heavily armed pirates are able to engage in large-scale actions and even hijack large oil tankers or cargo ships carrying weapons. Two Turkish ships were attacked by pirates in 2011, but TCG Giresun frigates in the area saved the ship from the attack of sea bandits by removing its helicopter. Research has revealed today that the average annual cost of sea bandits to the naval sector is around $16 billion. According to the Aden Somali Region Marine Piracy Report, published last September by an international organisation, the annual global cost of piracy in the Gulf of Aden in 2012 is more than $6.5 billion. At the same time, transformations on ships due to piracy activities cost the Turkish fleet $42m. In a globalized world with developing technology, the international community must co-operate on this issue because no country alone has the ability and ability to deal with the problems. As a matter of fact, the UN Security Council's Resolution 1851 was determined to establish an international joint task force on 8 January 2009. Our country, an active member of the United Nations organization, has fulfilled its international and national responsibilities by joining the task force, which has endangered international peace and stability and has been created to combat piracy and naval bandits, which have affected our national interests. Members of parliament, 20 per cent of Turkey's foreign trade is done through the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden and the region of Somalia, where piracy is fought. Therefore, efforts to fight piracy are of great importance to our country. I take note of the following issues concerning the Gulf of Eden in the fight against piracy: It would be helpful to extend the mandate of Operation Ocean Shield until 2014. NATO forces must be equipped with a strong mandate that allows them to engage in more decisive and targeted activities against piracy. In addition to countries in the region, increasing engagement with countries that have personally sent their navy to the African horn from outside the region, and the efforts of countries in the region against piracy to boost their own capabilities will ensure more lasting results. In this framework, stronger actions are expected to resolve the problem of piracy from the international community and especially NATO. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, no doubt local threats that have not been interfered in time and place and cannot be co-operated have developed over time to gain international property and become regional or global dimensions. Once the threat size reaches a certain limit, the struggle becomes difficult and costs much more. In order to contribute to international security as Turkey and to protect ships carrying cargo from Turkish flag or Turkey in the region, our government joined the Ocean Shield Operation on 10 February 2009, with a frigate and 250 personnel from the Turkish Grand National Assembly to move Turkish marine elements to the region. The Turkish Armed Forces support the request to extend the naval elements to the Aden Bay, Somali land waters and open areas, to our government for a year's term for deployment in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, in accordance with the principle and basis of annual leave dated February 10, 2009 and of the 934 Turkish Grand National Assembly Decision, starting on February 5, 2013, with a positive contribution to world peace and stability.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0168par0159	Thank you, Mr. Business. The last word for the individuals is from Mr. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu of Niğde MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0169par0163	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my person to extend the year-long leave of our Parliament on January 25, 2012 and on the basis of the deployment of the Turkish Armed Forces naval elements abroad under the fight against naval bandits. I salute you all. Over 90 per cent of the import and export cargo of the world's trade is carried by sea. It is estimated that the sea trade will continue to grow in parallel with the development of the world's trade, and there will be continuous growth in the volume of shipping. The operation of world trade is possible with the global security of the world's seas. The incidents of sea bandits are damaging the international trade of countries. In November 2008, the United Nations, NATO and the European Union began to seek solutions to the safety of the shipping of some 22,000 ships in the Gulf of Eden. Deliable lawmakers continue international efforts to fight the five UN Security Council resolutions in 2008, in the Gulf of Aden, Somali landwaters and coasts, the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, particularly sea bandits and armed robbery, aimed at merchant ships in the direction of the Arab Sea and Mujavir. As it is known, Turkey has actively supported efforts by the Turkish Armed Forces to coordinate piracy with NATO, the European Union, the United Nations and the International Maritime Organization. In this framework, our marine elements have actively joined the United Task Force and NATO Permanent Marine Task Group, along with allied naval forces based on Parliamentary Decision 934, dated February 10, 2009. Our country has also taken over the United Task Force Command three times since 2009. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our marine elements who participated in the operation, have escorted and provided protection for merchant ships in the area mentioned. The merchant ships that were attacked were helped, and their vehicles were stopped or their vehicles were seized by interference with the attackers when needed. At the coming point, with the active contribution of many nations, especially the United Nations and NATO umbrellas, there has been considerable deterrentism in the fight against piracy and armed robbery in the Arab Sea and the Mujavir regions, in the Gulf of Eden, in the waters of Somalia and offshore. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, there has been a great change and transformation in both the world and the geography we live in lately. The transformation presents new risks and threats to peace, stability and security as well as new opportunities. These risks and threats, particularly in our recent geography, have negative effects on peace and security in certain areas, causing unstable areas to emerge. Rebuilding stability in these areas, maintaining lasting peace, improving good neighbourly relations, increasing co-operation in areas of our country and on a global scale, has many responsibilities. This responsibility requires our country to follow a stable, prerequisite, realistic, pragmatic, visionary, and result-oriented foreign policy. This is why our country, especially recently, has contributed more to the efforts to promote and protect peace. For example, the operations conducted in Afghanistan (ISAF), Kosovo (KFOR), Bosnia and Herzegovina (ALTHEA) and Lebanon (UNIFIL) are some of them. Thus, with its contribution to peace support and protection operations, our country is able to direct development in global and regional areas in its national interest, and show that it is taking decisive and sincere steps to improve its efficiency and appearance, to ensure peace and stability. I wish that our military presence in the Gulf of Aden, Somalia, and the Arab Sea would serve there for another year for the good of both our country and our world. Also, on behalf of myself, I would like to thank all of our Navy personnel, who have served with a great success, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0170par0170	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now I'm going to re-read the thesis and put it to your votes.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0171par0173	Mr. President, I had questions.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0170par0174	No, he doesn't have a question. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations Security Council decisions adopted in 2008 on piracy/sea bandits and armed robberies in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, the Gulf of Aden and Somalia and its coasts, and the Turkish Armed Forces have been actively ensured that the security of Turkish Flags and Turkish-connected commercial vessels in the region should be established in an active scale of the United Nations in which the Turkish Armed Forces have participated in a year-long fight against the 10/2/2009 Grand National Assembly and carried out armed robberies. Turkish Armed Forces decision 934, which allows naval elements to operate in the region, will finally be extended by a year with Decision 1008, dated 25/1/2012, and will end on 10/2/2013. On the other hand, the UN Security Council's decisions on the issue of 21/11/2012 have been extended for a year with Decision No. 2077, dated 21/11/2012, which has led to the ongoing piracy of piracy and armed robbery in the Indian Ocean. In this scope, the Turkish Armed Forces shall extend the marine elements to the Gulf of Aden, Somali land waters and open areas, under Article 92 (92) of the Constitution, under the principle and basis set in the TBM Decision 934, dated 10/2/2009, to be assigned to the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressman Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, has withdrawn the motion made by the main Law Proposal (2/212) under Article 37 of the Interior Charter to be taken directly into the agenda. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government, Minister of National Defence, Mr. Ismet Yılmaz has a request to be spoken on behalf of Article 59 of the Civil Code to reinforce our air defence systems with Patriot batteries against the threat of ballistic missile. I'm going to grant that request now. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups, five for the non-group MP.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0172par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0170par0189	Sir?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0172par0190	Sir, of course, we would prefer that Mr. Minister inform on these Patriots at the beginning of the merger, especially at a time when our nation will watch from televisions, using the sovereignty of the Turkish nation. I mean, today, I wish the demand for this matter had been made at the beginning of the merger, and at the beginning of this merger, our citizens would have learned directly about such a delicate subject. But despite everything, I also want to thank them for expressing such information at such a limited time. I wanted to express it.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0170par0191	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0173par0196	Mr. President, highly respected lawmakers, I have made a commitment to inform Turkey of the deployment of Patriot air and missile defence systems by NATO to your Grand Assembly. As it is known, on 22 June 2012, a military plane was shot down in the international airspace of the Eastern Mediterranean province 13 miles outside of Lazkye, and two of our pilots were killed. In military operations carried out near our border against anti-religious groups, cannons, mortar shells hit our country's territory, and on 3 October 2012, five of our citizens were killed by a artillery shell hit the Akchakale district center. Syria is known to have ballistic missile skills and chemical weapons stockpiles, as well as to be expressed by the international community. Mr. President, with these developments in Syria, our people must be protected by the risks of our country's security. This protection is our primary responsibility and duty as government. Neither Syria nor the international diplomatic initiatives have prevented the events in Syria. There is no sign that the crisis in Syria will soon be resolved, but we are also witnessing that the current regime's attacks on civilians continue to continue. The regime in Syria is clearly a threat not only to its own people, but to the entire region. Over these events, the United Nations and NATO have made necessary attempts, high-level contacts with friendly and ally countries, and the international community has shown firm and strong solidarity with our country within the framework of these contacts and initiatives.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0174par0200	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Reverend MPs are making a statement on a very important matter, so I think there's a great noise on the left flank. I beg you to keep the peace. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0175par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the possibility and capabilities of Syria and the regime's attack on his people, the need for any of our citizens to take advantage of NATO's abilities, even if there's even the slightest chance that their noses will bleed and they won't be harmed. In this scope, the Washington Convention, which has stressed collective defence from NATO, which we have been members of for more than 60 years, has been determined to request the assistance of our air defence systems against the threat of ballistic missiles from Syria. Our official request for this matter was delivered to NATO on November 21, 2012. At a meeting of NATO's North Atlantic Council on 4 December 2012 at the level of foreign ministers, our national air defences were agreed to protect Turkey. The NATO alliance's area of responsibility is determined by the North Atlantic Agreement. According to this, NATO's joint defence commitment includes our country's territory as an alliance member country. NATO's basic principle and deterrent is based on its understanding that a threat or attack on an ally was done to all allies. In this context, threats to the security of our country are seen as a threat to the entire alliance. The conflict in Syria also led to a humanitarian crisis. We're hosting over 170,000 people in camps that are set up within our borders and home to the victims of Syrian citizens. This framework has so far spent about $500 million on the Syrians. Mr. President, it is not possible that this system can be used for a non-flying zone or for an attack operation, both our request and NATO's support decision is a defence measure against possible air and missile threats from Syria alone. The measures are only a temporary supplement of our country's air defenses. The goal is to demonstrate the protection of our people, the deterrent of our country and the alliance. The deployment of Patriot batteries is part of NATO. In this regard, there is no need for a separate Parliamentary decision for deployments under NATO in the same direction as previous practices. As you know, the 92nd Article of our Constitution is very clear and clear, there is no need to ask permission from the Turkish Grand National Assembly for foreign armed forces to arrive when Turkey is on the basis of international agreements. Again, in Article 90 of the Constitution, there is no obligation for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to adopt implementation agreements based on an international agreement. Again, according to Article 6 of the Law on the Making of International Agreements 244, the Council of Ministers is very clear and clear on the authorization of the Council of Ministers to establish some Accords, and on the basis of the North Atlantic Agreement, which was ratified on February 18, 1952 and on the basis of Law 5886, the Council of Ministers is in charge of ratifying and participating in the two or multilateral treaties made by the entity and the North Atlantic Agreement. We also sided with NATO on February 18, 1952 and with Law 5886. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, under the NATO decision, have announced that our allies, the United States, the Netherlands and Germany, will send two Patriot batteries to our country. The expedition to deploy Patriot batteries was carried out from 27 November to 2 December 2012. The expedition consists of Turkish, United States, Germany, Dutch officers and experts and NATO Writers, as the head of a general general general of the General Staff. As a result of military technical exploration, our country's priorities have been taken into account, and in the joint interest of the three allied countries and NATO military authorities, it has been agreed that the batteries from Germany will be deployed to Kahramanmarash, the batteries from the Netherlands to Adana, and the batteries from the United States to Gaziantep. The positions of the Patriot batteries have been determined by the widest coverage and protection possible. The shipment of Patriot systems and relevant personnel was completed as of January 30, 2013. Patriot batteries from Germany and the Netherlands are already fully operational. The batteries belonging to the United States are expected to be fully operational this week. Allied country troops will be present in positions where Patriot batteries will be deployed. The internal approval process of the countries sending Patriot systems to Turkey has been decided, while the Netherlands has decided that the maximum of 360 personnel will be assigned by the United States and Germany for a year. Foreign soldiers who come to our country will serve in accordance with the NATO-SOFA agreement. Patriot systems were developed to prevent short-range ballistic missiles known to possess Syria. The system has the ability to detect missile threats and destroy them in the air without reaching its destination, providing effective defences against high-performance fighter aircraft, medium and long-range ballistic missiles, missiles launched from ships and drones. As it is known, Patriot systems were also deployed in our country during the Iraq events of 1991 and 2003. Patriot systems are anti-ballistic missiles, capable of preventing short and medium-range ballistic missiles, which can be used in any weather conditions; it's an initiaable missile system; it's used to destroy an enemy missile in the air before it reaches its destination. As part of the working system, first, the hostile missile is detected by radar and is determined by its properties. The system computer chooses to fire by detecting the more effective results of the missiles in the battery. The missile is launched in less than nine seconds to launch, and is routed by the command control system to destroy the target. Patriots can be used against both planes and ballistic missiles. Their range, according to their type, is 20 kilometers against missiles, 120 kilometers against airplanes. Another type has a range of 36 kilometers against missiles and 40 miles against airplanes. Some of our friends have made claims that the purpose of deployment is to protect Israel against missiles from Iran, which are incompatible with truth and technique. It is technically impossible to destroy a missile with a target of 36km, from Iran to Israel, from Turkey to its positions. Hence, when you give information to others, you need to be able to call them "safah. " Again, we're against the Patriot missiles of another friend. After we say, "We don't want the Patriot missiles to come to Turkey." It's also a thought-finding event when he argues about the places where the Patriot missiles are used. The missile system radar's threat detection distance is at maximum 150 kilometers. The Patriot system has been locked on target for over 50 kilometers, and radar can track as many as 100 potential targets and nine fired Patriot missiles. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs -- the Patriots -- we've said it before, once again, underline -- are not an assault weapon. Given that there are special defense systems, the ability to fire must be in the position to do the most effective self-defense. In this regard, the command of the Patriots stationed in our country will be at the European Allied Command. These systems will be referred and governed by the rules of engagement approved by us as part of the basic, rules and restrictions approved by the Council of NATO, which includes our country. Already, within the current structure, the functioning of the system is being monitored by us. The costs for the arrival and operation of Patriot batteries belong to countries that send them. As the cost is not covered by NATO funds, Turkey will not be injured. The countries that send are willing to accept the financial burden, NATO solidarity and the principle of indivisibility of Alliance security. In this context, the countries that are remembered pay for all personnel expenses, including employment, to the port. In contrast, as the host country, Turkey will provide home support under alliance solidarity and alliance relations. The home country's support has a specific standard for all members within NATO. The intended support may vary in some of the situation, but generally includes port costs after entering Turkish territory, costs to transport from port to port, maintenance, repair and concessions of allied troops, construction of prefabric buildings where buildings are inadequate and equipped, resolving the platforms where weapons systems will be deployed in the ground and interfering in emergency medical situations. In the case of pencils, the costs that Turkey will take on in the host country's status, the construction and development of roads and security in the speech zones, the other infrastructure needs for improving, lighting and security, the residential services, the office and rest areas, the transport and transport, the temporary storage and safety in the landing port, and the security of all the countries who know about allied countries from the ports to talk areas, convoy security, downloading from containers in the containers, supplying the storage area, emergency services, communication needs for emergency assistance, communication needs in speech areas -- an allied liaison officer in English-knowing areas -- the country's responsibility is its own. However, it is Turkey's responsibility as the host country to have subburdeners for services such as food, beverages and laundry. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, Turkey, which is strongly involved in all areas within the alliance, is not only under Patriots, but generally refers to the issue of missile defence. In this framework, a lieutenant general from the Air Force Command has been appointed as deputy chief of staff of NATO's Air Command, who is responsible for managing activities under NATO missile defence, and has been appointed as the general of this general as of November 2012. In NATO, all activities in missile defence are closely monitored. Another thing I want to emphasize is the study of air and missile defence systems in our country. Supply efforts for long-range air and missile defence systems are under way. At a meeting of the Defence Industry Executive Committee in the first week of January, it has been decided to continue negotiations under the Long Range Area Air and Missile Defense System Project. Long-range talks are under way to increase domestic contribution to air and missile defence systems, which are envisioned to be provided. In this way, it is intended to contribute to the development of our country's industry as part of missile technology. Our defence industries are also continuing their activities to produce our own weapons and systems. Mr. President, very respected lawmakers, as soon as order is established in Syria, the environment of conflict is over, and the threat to our country has been eliminated, the reason why the Patriot systems are in our country, which is a precautionary measure of defence entirely. In the future, foreign troops will return to their country to operate systems and systems. Highly valued members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Reverend President, I would like to point out that while I end my promises, we will continue our support for the Syrian people in order to ensure peace and peace in the country, protecting the nation's national unity and territorial integrity. I'd like to welcome you to the NATO-member alliance countries that sent the Patriots to our country. They're our guests, they didn't come by themselves, they came for our demands.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0176par0231	Minister, you know the Patriots will not be used against the threat from Syria.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0175par0232	If such an opportunity... look, in 1991 I read Mehmet Ali Birand.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0176par0233	Do not support civil war in Syria so that there will be stability.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0175par0234	Turkey must carry out any threat from Iraq, whatever it can. If NATO has such an opportunity, it has to take it. NATO has such an opportunity, but if we didn't bring it, if a citizen like Akchakale had lost his life, wouldn't people ask: "You've been in NATO since 1950, and you won't use NATO today, and what day will you use it? They don't ask you for money, and they don't ask you for rent, why not ask for temporary deployment of a multibillion-dollar facility in Turkey? That's when our problem would begin. We want to make sure that even one citizen's nose bleeds, even if it's one in a thousand, even if it's one in a million, if there's no chance of sending any missiles to Turkey, these facilities will never be able to use it. I salute your high council. I wish peace and peace to our country, to our region, to our citizens.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0177par0238	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcu. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0242	Mr. President, dear friends, I listened to the Minister very carefully. I've also watched a lot of press reports, but I still don't understand. What concrete and close threat are these weapons systems used in response to? First of all, let's know if Turkey is at war with Syria or not. I want a clear answer to that. This answer is in the middle of a blur. Is there a military feud between Syria and us or not? As far as I know, Turkey has shown hostility towards Syria, but Syria has declared a war against Turkey, has waged war with Turkey, has not threatened Turkey with a military threat; it has no explanation, no activity. Now, if that's the case, the minister's military motive for the establishment of these weapons systems in Turkey is that there is a supply of ballistic missile skills and chemical weapons. Some explosives are dropping on our country's land. So it's mortar and ball. A plane was also shot down by Syria. There was still no clear, consistent, military and political explanation for what this plane was doing in Syrian airspace. We listened to the government and the Joint Chiefs of Staff at Chankaya. At that time, there was still no military information as to who brought this plane down, and how. Even today, we don't know the fate of this plane. So we don't know if this was the result of an attack on an enemy, or if it was the result of a hostile violation of the Syrian airspace, or if it was the result of an unfair foreign policy. Now, as for these chemical weapons stocks, I think it's really a fairy tale, because when it comes to Gulf Wars 1st and 2th, the entire Western press, especially manipulated by the Pentagon, has systematically mentioned weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The war is over, Iraq is ruined, but one weapons of mass destruction warehouse has not been found. The chemical weapons depots in Syria's hands are just like that. There is not one clear, clear military information about the truth about this, which illuminates the public, or the political parties or parliament. Rumours, rumors, rumors... Now, finally, these Patriot missile systems have arrived in Turkey. We're looking for the peace of Turkey... if Turkey doesn't take these weapons, it'll be ruined, so the command of these weapons said to have come to Turkey is in NATO's Allied Command. Turkey has the right and authority to use these weapons as much as its share in this command. So is Turkey's defence and NATO's defence the same, or did Turkey ask NATO to protect it, and in return, maintain priority? Not as far as I can see. Now, is there any convincing reason other than those unconvincing reasons? Yes, you do. European diplomacy and military environments are also very clear about the fact that the deployment of these Patriot missiles to Turkey has been brought to Turkey to bring a limit on Turkey's own movement in Syria, to maintain all military activity within NATO scope, to sort of control Turkey. As a matter of fact, there has been a change in Turkey's relationship with rebel elements in Syria since the Patriot defence system was established in Turkey. First of all, he has cut himself off from Al Qaeda elements; he has agreed to join the Syrian National Council with the Kurds, the PYD. As a result, Turkey is holding on to NATO's rope in order to get out of its own adventure in Syria, along with this rope to balance the Syrian adventure. This is the only meaning of the arrival of these systems in Turkey. These weapons systems have been tested in Gulf Wars. Saudi Arabia has succeeded 70 per cent and 40 per cent in Israel. So 30 out of 100 of the Scud missiles sent here by Iraq exploded in the middle of Saudi Arabia, and 60 out of every 100 missiles exploded in Israel in the middle of Israel. Now, from all these data, we can see from these material facts that these will not lead to any meaningful military conclusion, in this regard, if they capture, destroy and disable chemical weapons systems in the air. Besides, there was no sign from Syria that he would use chemical weapons against Turkey. The BBC, such as NBC, has been mentioned and followed by some of the actions of Britain's publications, which have contributed to the central military policies of the United States. It's said that the weapons are being removed from the warehouses, put in other warehouses, but we don't know why they did it. So they can throw them at us. Is that what we're going to think? Is this how Turkey decides military politics? Can he make that decision? If you ask me, Turkey has been subjected to an operation here that has brought Turkey to its knees in the NATO plane, which has ended its own command, especially in order to add to the international imperialist intervention in Syria. But with that, there was another extremely risky situation. Russia and Iran opposed the deployment of these Patriot missiles to Turkey, two of Turkey's closest neighbours, with tremendous power and continued to emerge. They see them as a threat to them. For that reason, we know that they are, of course, defense systems. You can't throw a Patriot missile at Moscow, you can't throw a Patriot missile at Tehran, but you can force them against you because you've changed the balance of power in order for them to continue their military activities.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0179par0251	We're just gonna play along with them? Their priorities or our own priorities?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0252	You and your neighbors claim to pursue zero issues of politics...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0179par0253	Their safety or our own?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0254	You have zero questions with your neighbors...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0179par0255	Russia will decide our foreign policy?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0256	I lead politics with your neighbors.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0179par0258	Are you speaking in the Russian Parliament? This is the Turkish Parliament.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0180par0259	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0260	Don't do what? (AK PARTY) Don't shout! You hold your man first.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0180par0261	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0262	I'm going to lead politics with your neighbors.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0263	This isn't the Russian Parliament.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0264	Just a minute, brother. Shut up!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0265	Talk about Turkey's interests.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0266	Shut up, brother!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0267	Why should I shut up? This is Parliament.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0182par0268	Mr. Hawk, please...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0269	I will speak in Parliament, then you will speak.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0270	I'll talk the way you talk in there.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0182par0271	Mr. Hawk, please, Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0272	Smartass!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0273	Know your place!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0274	How am I supposed to know?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0275	You're telling me to be smart.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0276	How am I supposed to know my place?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0277	You're not going to say "suspenseful."
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0183par0278	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0279	It's my turn to speak. You don't talk when I'm talking.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0281	I'll talk to him. This is Parliament.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0282	Oya Haným...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0283	We're not talking Russian here.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0284	There is no Russian mouth. We can face international pressures that could put us in unnecessary conflict with our neighbors, and we don't have to.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0286	We will discuss Turkey's interests.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0287	You just signed a series of deals with Russia yesterday, but you brought missiles through the back door. Now, why do you go after one of the greatest forces in the world when it's possible to get along with them when they're not taking advantage of you, and the interests of the United States require that? You're talking from morning to evening: the West, West, West... the West is doing to us... the very essence of what you call west is the Pentagon and NATO. If you're sitting in the direction of the Pentagon and NATO, you do what the West says. Now I ask you, do we have to do what America says? Do we have to move in the tail of the United States of America, in the wheelwater?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0288	Turkey makes decisions within its own interests. Turkey is a free country. Neither America nor Russia nor Iraq...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0289	Do we have to live in the Middle East on the American axis in Saudi Arabia? Is it reasonable to sit on the Sunni axis of the United States, and to make an enemy of Iran, Lebanon, Syria, when all the peoples in the Middle East, and all the cultures, and all the peoples in the Middle East, and to live together as brothers?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0291	You won't speak in Russian language, you won't speak in Russian language.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0292	It's not the mouth of Russia; it's the mouth of the people.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0181par0293	You're going to talk to the Turkish language!
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0294	This is the mouth of Turkey. Turkey is not just you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0184par0295	He's a preacher, he's being coy.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0185par0296	What do I do? Mr. Bauken, you know what?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0178par0297	Turkey has a historical heritage that has fought against the sovereignty of the United States for 40 years. I speak for that legacy.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit05spe0185par0299	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 61st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0186par0005	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. According to Article 59 of the Interior Charter, the right to answer or participate in an off-the-top conversation on behalf of groups is subject to ten minutes' notice, but, Mr. Group Vice President, it was necessary to do so at a time when televisions were on, as our nation had just given us, because we understand that there is a national issue, there is a potential danger, there is a threat. The nature and reason of the government's action on this threat should have been explained to the nation along with us. Therefore, this was supposed to be done during the time period of television broadcasts, but somehow -- in fact, this was supposed to be an opportunity for the government, an opportunity for the group -- at this time of night, the MP is tired, busy, talking, the citizen is asleep. So we're negotiating on a very important matter every hour at a very unnecessary time. Dear friends, the Minister has told us the reason for the placement of Patriot missiles in our borders. We have to honor the government's information, and I don't see the need for further questioning, but we still need information. We want to understand the reason for the zigzags in the government's position on this matter. On 3 October 2012, the Minister also stated the date of the death of five of our citizens in Akchakale, after a shell fired from Syria, the deployment, demand of Patriot missiles came on the agenda. At the time, the Prime Minister had a very direct statement: I don't know about this, we don't have that demand, we don't have any money for this job. He said, "November 7, 2012." But then we found out that on November 21st, the AKP's government applied to NATO for these missiles. And then, just two days later, in Islamabad, Prime Minister, Turkey is a NATO territory. In order to protect NATO soil, Mr. Secretary said, as an unfortunate statement to me, to protect Turkey, we can't possibly accept it. Patriot missiles have been requested, and as of today, they have been deployed to the borders of our country or some of its cities. Now, that's the question we're looking for from here. What's with the hesitation? This hesitation didn't just happen in this case; it happened in the case of the Orbs, which also happened in the Libyan incident. What was NATO doing here? Then we became NATO's logistical support base. This happened in Syria, first brother, then enemy. So you need to explain to the public the reason for the sudden changes in decision making. I'll ask you from here, but our president, Dr. State Gardener, asked about it in his group speech on November 27, 2012. Seventy days and you still haven't answered. You've just spoken, Mr. Secretary, and you haven't responded to this again. First of all, as the National Movement Party Group -- for the record, for you to listen or listen to concerns -- again, we make it very clear in our President's statement that any measures necessary for the safety and well-being of our nation must be carried out without delay and avoidance. It is imperative, surely, that we develop a measure against the uncertain and chaotic table of the Middle East at which we are at the border, and take firm and decisive steps against possible dangers. If it is necessary to place these Patriot missiles in our borders, it is the right decision, and we, the National Movement Party, support it. November 27th, but on the same day, we asked Mr. Minister, and I ask him again: "What is the secret and reason behind the fact that in a short time, Mr. Prime Minister has revealed two different attitudes? " As a Prime Minister, you will be under a charge of one week from now to ten days from now. I need you to tell me this secret and why. Two: What additional risks and threats have been taken, Mr. Secretary, that you've made such a change of heart? What changed in about two weeks, but Prime Minister Erdogan suddenly applied to NATO for Patriot missiles? Are the missile silos in Syria turned into Turkey? Was Mr. Gul's concern about the missiles justified? Is our country a target of chemical weapons missiles? Is there such a thing? We've seen in other examples that it's a story based on global lies like this. What is concrete about it? These are questions from Mr. State Gardener, November 27, 2012. It's been 70 days since then. Mr. Secretary -- we saw it earlier in your speech -- answer these questions. Dear MPs, worthy ruling party members; strong power -- with its own agenda, its own decision -- are forced to make these changes in such a short time on a very important matter about Turkey's future? From here -- it's going to sound very heavy -- but I ask you on behalf of my country, on behalf of my people, do you not have your own decision, or do you not have your own will in the country, in matters of foreign policy or national security? Are there other places that decide this? That's a very serious accusation.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0187par0011	The decision is ours.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0186par0012	The decision is yours, but why all the changes? I can read the Prime Minister's words from here, he says: "What do you mean? We don't need that kind of thing. But 15 days later, you're applying to NATO on the 21st. Dear friends, this does not suit Turkey. Let me ask you another question: Yes, Mr. Secretary, we believe that they were not planted to protect Israel, but, for God's sake, did Turkey fall into an inability to defend itself against Syria with its own resources, with its own armed force? I mean, is it possible to accept that? If we agree to this, we need to re-examine the great Turkish government, which you have drawn foreign policy or photographed, which you claim to have become the 16th great economic power. Syria: Turkey versus Syria is applying to NATO to protect itself or NATO says: "We have to protect Turkey." Has Turkey fallen into a helpless state, Mr. Secretary? We can't possibly accept that. You have to answer these questions clearly, clearly, and publicly. This meeting must be held during daylight hours and in front of the public. Otherwise these questions are asked in coffee, these questions are asked in the street, and they don't answer. You're upsetting people. Dear lawmakers, another thing: a politician, a statesman, will rule today, this mission, but will predict the future correctly, will build the future. With the precautions you're taking today, you're bound to build the future. You've been running the country for ten years, Mr. Secretary. Within ten years, it has been revealed that you have not been able to take the necessary measures to predict that Turkey will arrive at this point with Syria. He stayed for a very short time, but I'll tell you something very painful: Dear friends, Syria, his brother in religion is completely separated from Turk, Turkmeni, Kurd, Caucasians, the half-population of Syria, at least 10 million people, our 22 million believers, but today he's breaking each other up. There's a civil war going on, about 100,000 people have lost their lives, 2 million people have been torn out of their homes, their village. Unfortunately, those who were unable to predict this outcome and take the necessary measures were badly ruled by Turkey. That's the gist of it. Thank you very much, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0188par0020	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Korutk.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0189par0023	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you. Mr. Secretary, thank you for informing the House at this late hour, even if the TV is off. I'm sorry to say, we're not satisfied with the Minister's explanation. He told me about the spherical radar, and then he told me about the Patriot missiles. In the same context of these two issues, it's true that he was talking about in the same conversation, because we think that the Patriot missiles that came in were directly related to the Globek radar. The creation of the spherical radar was an agreement between Turkey and the United States. The spherical radar may have been assigned to NATO, perhaps it was assigned -- as Obama said -- in December, but in terms of NATO, the Globek radar was not operational, it wasn't operational. But the sphere radar is operational and operational for the United States. Guys, there's one more thing to know: the type of sphere radar is AN/TPY-2. An AN/TPY-2 type radar, as well as a twin radar, is found in Israel. It operates on Mount Keren of Israel and is run by the Americans. These two radars communicate within the central command system. So, as the American authorities once said, we will not withhold information from our friends. As he said, he also gives information to Israel. Now, Patriot missiles have come to protect us against Syria. It's hard to imagine something like this would happen. The Patriot missiles threat wasn't there before November? If the threat that the Patriot missiles will protect us comes from Syria, would Syria wait three months, three and a half months for the Patriots to come to us to carry out this threat? Patriot missiles took three months to arrive and deploy. Now, Patriot's staff, Dutch, German, American soldiers, we came to protect the Turkish people against Syria. Does Turkey need the protection of NATO against Syria? We all know that Turkey's mid and high-altitude missile defenses are weak enough to be said. The only pleasing thing the Minister has said is that the government has done some work to overcome this weakness. We thank them for that, we support them, but we follow. This needs to be done. But after he gave the reason for Syria, Patriot's request coincidentally came upon just the following of Israel's attack on Gaza. What does Israel's attack on Gaza have to do with it? It has to do with this: Israel's Gaza attack has updated the threat of ballistic missiles from Iran against Israel and Syria against Israel. Now, the sphere radar, no doubt, is a radar set up to control missile activity in Iran. A ballistic missile from Iran to Israel, or to be launched elsewhere, will be caught on the Globe's radar within five seconds of its firing. Guys, there's one more job that's gonna get us in a lot more trouble when the spherical radar catches up with this. He will also be shot with the clever missiles of American cruisers in various seas and in the eastern Mediterranean, such as the cruize missile, which will not be expected. The Patriot -- as the Minister said -- has a range of 20 kilometers against ballistic missiles, range against planes, 80 to 100 kilometers by the speed of the plane. And the reason for that is obvious, because we call the speed of a ballistic missile -- we call the speed of sound -- 8 mach, 8 times the speed of sound; Patriot's speed is 5 mach, 5 times the speed of sound. A plane can beat the speed of sound -- a jet plane -- but normally, the duration of the action -- my general knows better -- is a little below the speed of sound, I think. So at 80 kilometers to 100 kilometers, it prevents the plane; it prevents the ballistic missile at 20 kilometers. So what will come from there will prevent chemical weapons from coming from Syria, even though they are being fired on our territory, where they are stationed today. Even then, if there's tap safety on the missiles, there'll still be a shortage of damage to Turkey from the missiles, from the debris, from the chemical weapon. So, these aren't for him, these are for the sphere. Now, we've said that the sphere radar is American radar. The sphere's radar, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, as the Minister of the Constitution said, had to pass through this Grand National Assembly because the Globek's radar has yet to run a radar, an American staff within the United States, not within NATO. Turkey has become an issue of agreement between the United States and the United States. By setting up this radar, we have made ourselves the target of certain countries, military forces in this region, where we stand. Now, Patriot missiles have arrived in Turkey and have been deployed. I've tried to explain that these are not for our needs, but for the needs of others, but here, for the short time, but we're paying for them. That's how we understand the Minister's explanation. When these come, we pay for them, and we pay for them. And after that, it's gonna come out, it's gonna go away. When's he leaving? When's he leaving? We don't know that because I've asked Mr. Secretary of State from this bench again, these Patriot movements, the creation of the Globekic radar, and when other military activities are put together, we think there's a possibility that we should never have. Is it possible that some forces other than ourselves are preparing for Iran? Is it today, as the government now sees, that its long-standing national opposition has often voiced its demand to negotiate with central government a step towards Iran? If such a thing exists -- and we know that some of Israel's altars are very enthusiastic about it -- I would like to warn the government of this: Turkey should not tolerate any action against Iran, Turkey should not be in any way involved in any action against Iran. Iran is our rival in this region, yes, our relations with Iran, yes, it is bumpy; it is not possible to always agree, always negotiate, or even love each other. I was an ambassador in Iran. When I presented my letter of confidence in Iran, then Iranian President Rafsancani and Iran were condemned to one another. He said, "He is a prisoner." It is not the word of a newly appointed ambassador. You have to admit that because conviction is a necessity. That's what I said, Mr. President. You're saying he's a prisoner. That means he's better, isn't it? I said, he laughed. I had a similar incident during the presidency of Mr. Demirel, when I was briefing Demirel for the arrival of Rafsancani again. Demirel said, "What do they think of us? And I said, "President, I wish you'd asked me this from the beginning, our time is up, I need to leave, it's a long story, but I can tell you, maybe they're thinking about us as much as we think about them. What are you saying when you say that? Is it that bad?" Now, that's our relationship with Iran, but as such, a move against Iran would make both Turkey and the region and the world very difficult. I hope the Orbicle radar doesn't open this kind of movement. I hope our government -- even though our Foreign Minister didn't answer my question -- is awake about it, is consistent about it, and is aware that it can't be said to Ahmadinejat, or Ahmadinejat. With all these thoughts, we want us to be very alert about these issues, all of us to be very vigilant, especially when our lawmakers from the ruling party often ask the government to explain themselves in such matters, in which environments they have contact with them. We're all children of the same country, we all work for this country, we all want what's best for this country, but the good of this country is to stay away from adventure. I think we should put a little more emphasis on foreign policy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0190par0039	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Aksaray MP Ali Riza Alaboyun.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0191par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to inform NATO about the Patriot missiles our government has requested against ballistic missile threats. I salute you all. Congressmans, first of all, we need to take a look at Turkey's position before we go into it. Turkey, yes, is a NATO member country, but when we look at our environmental neighbours, we're in the hottest hot zones that NATO has determined. Syria is one of them; Iraq has yet to be resolved; one of them is Iran's nuclear power plant, a country that has a problem with the whole world with nuclear weapons. On the one hand, the Karabağ problem in Azerbaijan and Armenia and an unresolved Georgia and Russia. In such a region, Turkey is an effort to develop a peace island economy, democracy, but zero policy development with its neighbours. So think of Germany: Do you know how unreasonable it is for Germany to say, "I am going to develop zero policy with my neighbors?" Because France is an EU member with the EU, Italy is an EU member with the EU, the Netherlands is an EU member with the EU, but Turkey is not. All the countries around us have problems with the world. We have to follow zero problem policy with these countries, and we're going to take it to the end. We have no intention of backing down here. Despite all his father's massacre in this frame, both our Prime Minister and our Foreign Minister have endeavored to integrate them into the world by developing very good relations with Assad, but if this did not comply with them, our silence against their human rights would never, never be acceptable. Turkey has demonstrated its position here.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0192par0043	What about human rights violations in Turkey?
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0191par0044	About the Patriots. Turkey has requested the Patriot missile for the third time now as a NATO member in the Kuwait War, the Iraq War, and this time in this regard. Patriots, as our Minister and our fellow speakers have just said, it's not an attack missile either at its range or at its altitude. There are two key factors for a missile to be intended for attack. One is the title, the other is the range. It's mentioned as range, between 20 and 36 kilometers, its altitude is 15 kilometers, so you can shoot down anti-missiles within 20 or 36 kilometers of a half-sphere field and at 15 kilometers of an effective altitude. But Patriot doesn't carry a chemical warhead, he doesn't carry a nuclear warhead, he doesn't carry a conventional warhead. So the short range today is not a missile that's a threat because it doesn't carry any warheads. He is not a threat to Iran, nor is he a threat to Syria, nor is he a threat to any country, which is technically not possible. And the warheads that Patriot missiles carry are a system that captures, hit and kill in the air, which is what we call the "catch-to-kill" in English. Our existing aircraft and missiles-based air systems in the Turkish Armed Forces are not air defence systems, but also deterrent systems, air attack systems. The only system that can catch a missile in the air and hit it is the Patriots or missile defense systems developed by the United States today. The missile defence systems here and the Patriots are also useful to distinguish between the missile defence system developed by NATO because NATO has been trying to develop its own missile defence system since 2004. This system exists only in American technology, America. Russia couldn't produce technology, Japan couldn't produce it, Israel took it from America as it was, China couldn't produce it. Where would you get such technology without such an air defense system? You'll get it from the U.S., whether you want it or not, and you'll adapt its technology. Here, signed with America, not signed... I don't think there's a logical way out of this. NATO's missile defence system is four stages. The first one, short and medium range -- which began in the first stage of the Globecik and Romania -- will then integrate itself with a missile defence system, which will eventually include the United States and Alaska, and will be completed in 2020. I mean, why would you need a missile defense system like that? Now, 28 NATO members. There are long-range and intercontinental range missile launches in about 30 countries outside 28 countries -- including our neighbors and non-neighborhood countries. So imagine, you have a neighbor or a country in which you're in relationships, and that country is doing a ballistic missile study that can enter your airspace, and it can hit your cities. You need to develop a defense mechanism against them, whether you want to or not, and he's trying to do it with a bid he's made in Turkey. With the Patriots he received from the U.S., or the Patriots from Germany, it is also intended to capture and destroy a ballistic missile, possibly a chemical missile, which will come from Syria. Here are some figures for his success. That's right, it was 70 percent, 40 percent in the early stages, but today's success is a missile up to 97 percent. So it's only natural for these missiles to destroy the enemy missile from the air. I'd like to say a few words about the spherical. The system in the globe -- as the Ambassador said -- has the same radar in a United States, then it is built in Israel, then it is built in Japan, and the fourth in Turkey is in Globecik. The current radar in Israel is already scanning the eastern part of its country, scanning for missile movements, military movements. Thus, Israel does not need the knowledge of our sphere. In order for Israel to be able to use the information in the Globe, 28 NATO countries have to vote unanimously at the NATO meeting in Lisbon, which has never been mentioned by the efforts of our Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, as targets, as the enemy country, Turkey has done a lot of work and has done everything in its power. So it's the radar's job to track missile activity in the east. If Israel is scanning it, it is not possible that Israel has any need for our technical knowledge, which is technically impossible. In order for this to be shared, governments have to give up 28 countries, which is impossible, both technically and politically, and I want to explain it. Another issue is, let's say a missile was launched from Iran, and the radar in the Globekicle also detected it, and they reported it to the one in Romania. The missile in Romania has a range of 900 kilometers. The missile in Romania does not have the ability to shoot Iran, the missile they call the SM-3, but the missile, which can come from Iran, which has to pass through the atmosphere, whether it passes through the atmosphere or not, will be shot if it enters the range of the missile in Romania. Even with a chemical headgear, even with a nuclear warhead, a nuclear fallout, chemical fallout over the atmosphere is definitely out of the question. These issues may be due to lack of technical knowledge, but I repeat: Patriots are definitely not intended to attack, they are for defence purposes, they are for deterrents. The NATO missile defence system has not been developed against us, Iran or other countries. Israel also has a missile system that can protect itself, and neither Turkey nor NATO will need a missile system; in a very comfortable relationship with the United States of America, you all know that.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0193par0050	You set up a simultaneous radar system to protect Israel.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0191par0051	So it has absolutely nothing to do with Israel, which is an effort to cloud the mind. I think it's good to know. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0194par0054	Thank you, Mr. Alaboyun. I promise the Minister two minutes according to Article 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0195par0057	Mr. President, I'd like to make an additional statement on just one or two issues. Mr. Speakers should also inform Mr. Secretary on this matter. One of them was said that Syria has no chemical weapon because it is said, for Iraq, it is a story, it is a story. If there's an outside intervention, we'll use chemical weapons. He says on July 23, 2012. This is in the Republican newspaper, which, if it were in another newspaper, would not be respected by anyone who advocated this idea. But there is news in the newspaper, which he will partially honor. If there's an outside intervention, we'll use chemical weapons. Another preacher said, "Look at this in the Iraq War, Scud sent his missiles to Saudi Arabia." Why did he send them to Saudi Arabia? He sent them to Israel. Were Israel and Saudi Arabia at war with that country? It wasn't. But those in battle situations, those in distress, dictators sometimes get out of control, they don't know what they're doing, they want it to spread the fire. Therefore, it is said by its own authorities that this country has a chemical weapon, but the Russian Foreign Minister also says that the chemical weapons of Syria are under control. He's using it. It is our responsibility to develop such a measure, given the possibility that a missile used to its own people could be used to us at least one-in-a-million. Another orator said, I read the word of our Prime Minister... exactly as he said. Reverend President, I don't think it'll take half a minute. We are the decision-making authority at the point of receiving this missile. I don't know anything about that. I have the Defense Industry Executive Committee for this kind of purchase. I'm the President of this Council, we have two members there, one is the Secretary of Defense, the other is the Chief of Staff. We three should know about this, we don't know about this. We are not in the position of buying Patriots, as we are now paying for them. Our Prime Minister says so, we do not demand Patriots from NATO. He does not say that. We are not in a position to pay for a Patriot weapon because we have not made such a decision in the Defence Industry Executive Committee. Therefore, Mr. President, there is no response, no response. And the last thing I want to say is, I just said it. Article 6 of the Law on the Making of International Accords 244. In accordance with the North Atlantic Agreement, which was adopted on February 18, 1952, with Law 5886, with states that sided with this agreement -- with whom? The United States of America -- the Council of Ministers has the authority to ratify or participate in two or multiple agreements, and there is no need for parliament. We say that the contract with the U.S.A. was made in this frame. It's our interpretation as a government, but if someone else comes to power and interprets this law differently...
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0196par0063	Then you'll go to the Supreme Court, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0197par0064	This is not a matter for you to make decisions from the House.
tbmm-2013-02-05sit06spe0198par0068	We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to vote for members of the Justice and Development Party group that are available in some commissions. I read the candidates: İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush: Those who have accepted... those who have not accepted... have been accepted. İstanbul MP Avel Dedegil for membership found vacant in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission: All those in favor... those in favor... are... accepted. Mr. Ilyas Sr., for membership found vacant in the Internal Affairs Commission, those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Mr. Hasan Fehmi Kinay, MP of Kütahya for the membership of the People's Economic Initiative Commission, those who have accepted... those who have not accepted... have been accepted. Mr. Muzaffer Çakaar, for membership found vacant in the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Ankara MP Zelkif Kazdal: All those in favor... of the membership found vacant in the petition commission... are... accepted. İstanbul MP Harun Karaca: Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals or other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda that comes from the Commissions with Law and Proposals. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We'll begin negotiations with the Law Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism and the Interior Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (February 6th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
