tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Yalova MP Basal Coshkun (the first member of the Yalova MP) who asked for a comment because of World Environment Day. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, dear members of our High Council, my dear friends, I have received a speech off the agenda on Earth Environment Day. I salute you all with respect and love. The environment is the common habitat outside our homes. So the environment is very important to us. So we're all environmentalists at the same time. Human life is also very important and valuable. All the holy books and prophets valued man and valued purity. The Earth is not just a common habitat for man, but for all living things. As much as the legal regulations, public awareness, education and information work, our written and visual media may have a common result in the struggle against environmental pollution of all segments of society. We need to be aware that our natural resources are getting a little smaller every day, that they're being consumed unconsciously and irreparably. And indeed, it is We who are the greatest of all. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been designated as the environmental theme of the world this year. Obstruction of waste is on the agenda of the world, attracting attention to all humans. Environmental sensitivity and sensitivity to the environment are increasing in our society day by day. Therefore, as politicians, we can never be indifferent to this sensitivity and sensitivity. However, we have to show the same sensitivity mutually. For a week now, we all have important lessons to learn from events that have begun in Istanbul, which have spread in waves. First of all, yesterday, our environmental commissioner, Erol Bey, who spoke on this bench, said that the trees had been torn out of the taxi were planted, and Mr. Sırrıyya Önder said, "No, it has been destroyed, it has been lost." When we met with the Istanbul Metropolitan Board, we found out that these trees were planted in Abide-i Hurriyet Park, and we were very happy about it. Dear lawmakers, our beloved nation is watching over our Parliament. Compromise is expected to share a message about tolerance. Instead of mutual accusations, we must never forget that the young man who acted is also our human being, and the shopkeeper who was also damaged. As we are opposed to police violence, we need to be against those who use violence and hurt all over the world, and we need to make our people comfortable in their homes and in their streets. Everyone should get back to work. Let's not forget that the most important legacy we're going to leave to the next generation is a clean environment, a peaceful country. We shouldn't measure each other's patience and response. By exaggerating this act, by ignoring one another, we can get nowhere, and not by mutual conditions and compulsions, but by working together, we can come to a conclusion. It is clear where this country has come from, and the work and zeal of our Prime Minister who has brought this country to this day has been appreciated by our nation. Dear MPs, I hereby congratulate you on your Miraç Kandili. Tonight is an opportunity for us to repair our weary hearts, our broken hearts, to understand each other a little better; it's an opportunity to throw away pride, pride, anger, and ambition; it's an opportunity to end this act, which starts with purely innocent precision; it's an opportunity for those who are forced to go home to the streets, to return to work; it's an opportunity for students who are forced to go to the streets in our schools. Therefore, it is our duty, in these days, to show our unity, our unity, the power of the High Assembly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, again, I congratulate you on your lamp, giving everyone my regards.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Coshkun. The second non-responsive statement is owned by Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, June 5th, are celebrated as World Environment Day all over the world. On this occasion, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to express environmental policies and environmental problems in Turkey. I salute you all. Forty-one years ago, an environmental conference held by the United Nations in Stockholm on June 5, 16th 1972 revealed an understanding that prioritizes human and natural beings in order to preserve the natural balance of the world. The date of the conference's meeting was declared Earth Environment Day, acting on the fact that the decisions made at this conference were, in a sense, nationalized in environmental protection. In 1972, environmental policies of the environment and human-based environment were transformed into an understanding of the environment and development of the United Nations Environment and Development Conference, which took place in Brazil in 1992. In the 2000s, environmental policies have been narrowed down in terms of the concept of sustainable development. These policies, led by economic development and profit anxiety, will result in global warming, drought, climate disasters, deforestation, deforestation of biodiversity, and the return of the ecological crisis to an irreversible point. Dear MPs, Turkey, unfortunately, has been addicted to economic growth for ten years, and the environmental policies imposed by political power have been shaped in this direction. In almost all the rivers in Anatolia, over the past few years, over forty-nine years, over 2,000 companies have been handed over to the right to use water as hydropower plants. The water, which is the right of nature, which provides life for all living beings, has been brought to the use of companies and to the service of capital, along with its basin. As the whole world moves on to give up, the government insists on building two nuclear plants in Akkuyu and Sinop. However, the peoples of Mersin and Sinop have been resisting nuclear power plants for years, considering the disasters that the nuclear plant will cause for both nature and humanity. In addition to nuclear plants, the government has increased the release of greenhouse gases that caused climate change to the atmosphere to break the world's record in the last year, allowing for 50 more coal-based thermal plants to be made, which have done the most damage to climate, environment and health. Dear MPs, the government's economic growth focus in Turkey has come back on the agenda with the increasing natural slaughter, the third bridge in Istanbul and the third airport. The total number of trees to cut down for both projects is nearly 2.3 million, and the destruction will seriously block the ecological balance that existed in Istanbul. Again, with the project to build a shopping centre in the Travel Park, which has been on the agenda for the past week, it has been revealed once again by the government that environmental sensitivity has never been observed. Travel Park is one of the last green areas to remain in Tirana, and the fact that trees planted about 70 years ago will be removed to build a shopping centre has been met with public reaction, causing major demonstrations and protests throughout Turkey, particularly Istanbul. For those of our citizens who have lost their lives in these demonstrations and actions, I pray to God for mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. In democratic countries, every study on nature and the environment across the country is allowed by the people living in the region rather than by the relevant ministries, and the public can take an active role in any decision. Such referendas are held in order to ensure active participation in Europe because what the locals want is really important. For example, a referendum was held in Stockholm to answer the question, and 90 percent of the people opposed the new subway station in Sweden had to be cut down at the starting point of the new subway station, where they said, "Let's get down from the subway station or from the tree. Let's get down from the previous station, and let's not cut down from the tree." Even if the executives didn't think so, they respected that decision. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, therefore, the Kyoto Protocol, which Turkey is a party to, the United Nations Biological Variety Convention, the United Nations Convention on Climate Change Framework, states that it is no longer a choice but an obligation to continue its course with policies that maintain the ecological balance, and I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Sena Kaleli. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, I have made a promise on June 5th, World Environment Day. I salute the High Council. As I begin with my words, Miraç Kandili is celebrating your life, asking for God's mercy to those who lost their lives in the acts of the Travel Park, and praying for speedy healings to the Travel veterans. We are responsible for carrying our minds, health, ecosystems, natural resources, cultural and historical values into the future as our greatest wealth. The environmental awareness and responsibility must be carried out with understanding, which is not polarizing, and which is essential to participation, which should be as sensitive to governance as individuals. In particular, it is unacceptable for those who are sensitive to this to be marginalized, provoked and investigated, treated as terrorists with a hegemonic and schizophrenic understanding. Our air, water, land, and trees are sacrificed for hypothetical reasons, such as high public benefits and economic benefits. Society needs clean water and food, not artificiality. Natural space and resources must be stopped from being an instrument of rant. This world, this country is our common bio-ball. These trees, this air, this land, and these streams are our common habitat. Travel Park resistance has shown that our children, our young people, see their future in the liberation of nature and man, not in the buildings that are planted. The sensitivity for nonviolent action at the Travel Park and the sincerity of the distributed declarations have unfortunately not been tolerated by the state. We condemn anyone who resorts to violence. Nor is it right for anyone to get a positive or negative share of himself or his party from here. Blessed are the young ones who have reached this consciousness, protecting their nature, their environment, their people, and their freedom. However, the attitude to the most humane demands has shown anger and violence, which is still no longer a license to govern the country for those who read what happened as the cutting down or replacing of three or five trees. It has once again been revealed that even those who cannot become democrats have nothing to offer in the name of democracy. It is a serious provocation to investigate what is not like us, as there is no way to be proud of ourselves, of size, of descendants, of being human, as there is no way to be human. If we don't want to be pressured, we shouldn't pressure anyone else. In one country, I am the government, I do, I do. If the right-seeking channels are blocked, if the right-seeking channels are blocked, if they are not valued as well as the people and the people and the people who are not valued as well as the bridges, then soon nature will rebel, not only as well as the people who fill the squares. When the youths are united, they will show us that there is mercy and a punishment for dissension. Now, it's time for self-criticism. I took my share of the lesson as a sleepless marauder who spent the night at the Travel Park, ate pepper spray, came from Istanbul in the morning. Instead of questioning ourselves, still seeking criminals from abroad is recklessness. The protection of nature and the environment, the struggle for fundamental rights and freedoms, is for all mankind. The mentality that compresses this struggle into ideological concepts needs to rethink the understanding of democracy. It's not our history, it's our future. We have a responsibility to protect the original. Nature is indispensable, and when it's destroyed, it's replaceable. Dried, polluted wetlands, plantable areas, unfortunately, are running out. I pay my respects by calling out to unsupervised consciences.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. I also salute those who stand in the squares on the Day of the Environment, and watch over their futures. Behold, I salute those who have taken possession of the place of division, and of the Travel Park, and of the Ataturk Forest, and of the streams, and of its water, and of its land together. At the moment, tens of thousands of people in Rediay Square are combining with public workers, screaming for safe work, safe future, and a desire to live in a democratic country. In the same way, we are with the Salim resistance, as the workers, students, teachers, medics, artists who strike in the squares of all the country. She wants to scare all of this, but she's threatening to fire workers on strike. We want to live not only by public workers, but by saying, "We want to live by humanity." Istanbul embroidery workers who left jobs against the boss' cruelty, for those who were robbed on June 1st are on strike again today. We are workers, not slaves. On Saturday, we want to be at home, not at work. The righteous demands of those who say, "We must be heard. " The bosses and the government must respond to the demands of labor and democracy of workers who do not submit to plunder and plunder. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0010par0065	Mr. President, thank you. I condemn what happened on June 5th, World Environment Day. With mining licenses, the Kaz Mountains, our national fortune, are riddled with holes. The surface is worth more than the ground. I also want to draw attention to the Kaz Mountains on World Environment Day. In addition, the questions of the Ministry of Religious Affairs with Burhaniye, Ayvaliye and TÜİK (TİK) in our region have disturbed the people of our region. Citizens have reacted to questions that offend their feelings, and those who do not want to participate are forced to participate. The questions are: ▪ Which of the following is best expressed in your faith in God's existence? What religion do you belong to? What religion do you do it according to? What is the knowledge of your religious source? What person or institution do you apply to when you want to consult on a religiously qualified subject? How religious do you feel? How often do you perform the following prayers? There are many questions like that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, what is the purpose of the Ministry of Religious Affairs to conduct this survey? Is the survey being conducted throughout the dorm? What is the cost of the survey, and what institution is paying for it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0011par0072	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0012par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, June 5, 2013, we celebrate World Environment Day, which means a lot to Turkey and history. I congratulate these people who claim their land, their water, their forest, their parks, their habitats, as well as the people who call it freedom, who call it freedom. As long as this faith and this determination remain forever in the Republic of Turkey, of course, I wish that it would continue from generation to generation, and once again celebrate World Environment Day, June 5th.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Turkmenoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0013par0080	I too am celebrating the Miraç Kandili, which I hope will bring blessings on world peace and on mankind's future. The environmental sensitivity of the EC PARTY has already been intensively applied in our country for 11 years. It's been heavily wooded, it's been replanted, it's been done millions of years. I would just like to give an example of Iconium: There is not a region of Iconium that has not been wooded. If you knew the Hour was coming, plant your seedling. We are the people of a prophet. Thus, our environmental sensitivity also works in parallel with this. ▪ We try to live, like a tree, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, and as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one. For the past ten years, our democratization actions and legal regulations, constitutional changes we've made, and the constitutional change we've made in trade unions have led our country to further democratisation. Again, guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of the individual is the success of the EC PARTY, when we enter the first 16 ▪ in the economy, when we complete our debt to the IMF for the first time. Our Prime Minister, who's been working on this...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0014par0085	Thank you, Mr. Turkmenoglu. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0015par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Starting with my remarks, I would like to say that the resistance of Abdullah, who died during the protests in all Turkey to support the resistance in the Payum Travel Park, should be a symbol for all Turkey, their families and all Turkey. It's World Environment Day. Because of Environmental Day, today's actions are crucial. In addition, the World Environment Day may be celebrated or actions are being held all over the world in order to create awareness today, but in our country, for the protection of the environment, for the protection of the green, for the protection of the Travel Park, for the protection of the Green, for the protection of the Taxi, and for the use of disproportionate force in various forms of force, has been apologized by Bkent Arinc, but it has not been mentioned as follows: Will it be done, or won't it be done, or won't it be done? Is there going to be a mall again or not? The ECM is going down, and there's going to be a mosque?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0017par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. As a result of recent events, our young people have been shown anti-systems, shown anti-government, under pressure by using pepper gas, gas bombs, pressure water, and disproportionate force. A member of an organisation who fought against interference in living spaces, claiming that a party was organised by another force abroad, began to recruit young people who communicated on Twitter by raiding their homes in İzmir. I urge the governor of Izmir to be sensitive to Izmir Police Commissioner. I condemn the use of pressure on children, young people, to justify such outdated methods in this period of time when Twitter is being used as Facebook. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. In the past four days, four of our MPs have faced events we never desired. CHP Erzincan MP Muharrem Iz 6 has been beaten by police. Mr. Mahmut Tanal, our Istanbul MP, has been drawn a gun. Our Istanbul MP, Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, was forced to become an anjio as a result of his intervention, and BDP İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder was hospitalized as a result of a gas capsule hit on his back. We convey our best wishes to our MPs, and we repeat here our hope that the responsible will be found at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0020par0105	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0021par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'm celebrating my friends who are fighting the environmental movement around the world, especially in our country, because of World Environment Day, June 5th. June 5th is important to everyone, and my constituency is important to Artvin. In Artvin, we have friends who have done the environmental struggle. There is a struggle going on in Cerrattepe. In Cerrattepe, forests are destroyed, trees are destroyed, water is destroyed, habitats are destroyed, trying to destroy the entire ecological balance. A previous court decision has been re-established by disregarding a previous court decision, mixing the tender, misusing the mission, cheating against the law, all crimes described in the Turkish Penal Code are being carried out completely. So today, because of World Environment Day, I especially celebrate Energy Minister's Environment Day because he is worthy of it. I'm especially celebrating the Prime Minister's Environment Day, because I think it's more important to celebrate the Day of Environment with those who have problems with this environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you. The actions launched by sensitive people who owned its city and its nature, surrounded the country, and sensitivity exceeded the borders of the country. These developments have shown that after this, the harsh and harsh approach to the environment will not be as easy as it used to be, because the roots of the trees that were cut off in the Travel Park have now become the struggle for democracy and freedom. A clean Turkey, the struggle to protect trees, green and its city from the Salvage Park will shed light on the future for those who set out for a clean world. With such feelings and thoughts, the world celebrates the Day of Environment, and I pay my respects to all sensitive citizens.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0024par0118	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0025par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate the great Turkish nation and the blessed Miraç Kandili (Kandili) of the Turkish Islamic world. I also congratulate our nation's June 5th, World Environment Day. We're in a period of time when all kinds of damage to the environment has been done, the air, the soil, the water has been contaminated unconsciously. The growth of the world's population, the unplanned urbanization, the rapidity of industrialization, increases environmental pollution. However, it is in the hands of humans to prevent much pollution. We need to create a conscious society. For this purpose, I congratulate and greet those who act in the area of the Travel Park because of environmental sensitivity. Media-social solidarity in clean production, clean consumption and clean life must be created. Only then will the environment be free of pollution. Congratulations to all those who love the environment, hoping to live in a clean, healthy environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0026par0126	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0027par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank our people, who have been subjected to police multi-faceted torture for days of travel solidarity, who have opened their doors at the risk of everything, who have helped them, who have opened their doors, hotels, coffeehouses, bakerys, volunteer doctors, and anyone who has done medical aid by opening their homes. In addition, I thank People's TV and its employees, who have been broadcasting what has been happening in our city for days, again with National TV and A TV. While the dust is in the air, I am strongly condemning groups of government-rich tender-rich broadcasters, who have reported, censored, contested, documentaries, and published any local news, and I am stressing that journalism is a disgrace. I'd like to point out once again that the government has to answer for the necessary investigations of law enforcement without covering it up, for the unlimited use of gas and the tagging of human beings with painted water. We're not asking the government for personal, we're asking for an apology.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0028par0134	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0029par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the lamp of the Turkish-Islam world, and call upon the Lord God to bless it. In addition, the 56-year-old Ülküye Kütlik, who lives in the village of Altınyayla, Kahramanmarash Andirın, was killed as a result of a tick bite. I'm here to offer my condolences to our town and to the family of Andir. Unfortunately for this tick bite, it was sent back to the surrounding provinces because there were no serums or drugs found in the Andır and in our Kahramanmarash. In the face of an incident like this, I'm inviting the Ministry of Health to take office at the point of possession of cannabis-related serums and drugs in Kahramanmarash. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0030par0142	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Dağoğlu...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0031par0145	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, and I am celebrating the Miraç Kandili, of the entire Islamic world. By the way, because of World Environment Day, I pray that the whole place will be as green as Istanbul, as clean as Istanbul, with flowers and greens and plants and everything else will be like Istanbul, and that everyone will live in such an environment. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0033par0151	Mr. President, honorable MPs, this is the anniversary of the upgrade of the Holy Prophet, who has been sent down as a mercy to the worlds. On this blessed day and night of prayer, we once again remind the Prime Minister, the government and all the authorities who rule the country in these days, in which hearts need much more unity and unity, peace and brotherhood, to all of our citizens who express their demands and criticism in the squares and in common sense. As the National Party of Action, we congratulate the lamps of the entire Islamic world, of our beloved nation. On this occasion, we would like to welcome the lamps of our fellow congressmen. And we call upon the Lord God, that this night may be the cause of our nation's unity and peace and tranquility. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0034par0154	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0035par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Electricity is powered down in many parts of our province around a week or so. This is all due to the electricity distributor's dismissal and arbitrary application of workers. People suffer a great deal of trouble and damage. In addition, Mr. President, as the illegitimate fortune-owner becomes very arrogant, his strength grows, they will go down in history as they ask God's mercy for the young men who died fighting honorably against the Pharaohic political staff, while they are a respected martyrs of our democracy. I give thanks to them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0036par0160	Thank you, Mr. Young. Dear Line...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0037par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. It's World Environment Day. I'd like to announce that we will continue our efforts to live in a healthier, greener, greener, environmental world because of Earth Environment Day. As it was yesterday, I say on behalf of my party, that we will work for this purpose today and for that purpose tomorrow. Besides, today is Miraç Kandili. I wish that mutually love, respect, long - suffering, tolerance would reach the throne. I ask for God's mercy on our young brother who died in yesterday's events. I hope that these events will be an experience for all people living in Turkey and that the days will come when we will have mutual respect, love, and conversation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0038par0168	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0039par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the components of the Labour and Democracy Platform are standing up all over Turkey to support the right division resistance. KESK, DİSK, Turkish Medical Association, the Union of Turkish Architects and Engineers have been on warning strikes all over Turkey for two days. As our people claim the environment and nature, so does democracy, freedom, independence, and country. On the other hand, he opposes dictatorship, oppression, one man, violence and fascism. Today, AKP supporters have blockaded the building of the Health and Social Services Union in Rize. The police are watching this blockade. The fact that the Prime Minister is a prisoner of segregation, spiteful, hateful words and ambition has brought the public face to face. It is wise for the Prime Minister to extend his trip and stay abroad for a while. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0040par0175	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Boiler...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0041par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is Miraç Kandili. The Mirach is a cleansing and ascending to Mevla. Congratulating our beloved nation of Mirach Kandili, I sincerely hope that it brings blessings and peace to all mankind. Dear lawmakers, it's June 5th, and it's World Environment Day. It also celebrates Earth's Environment Day, as it did yesterday for the whole world, in the name of the environment, in the name of a green world, I say we will do our best and more in the future. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0042par0182	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Mr. Stalker...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0043par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm going to tell you what a friend of ours told me yesterday that I communicated online in Turkey, which is becoming a police state. This fellow is being detained on charges of involvement in certain incidents, and he is being beaten by every cop he has come across as much as he has been on a detention bus in Istanbul. After going to the detention bus, he gets beaten up by a couple of cops there, he forgets his own troubles, and he gets scared by the screams of a girl next door. That's exactly what a cop says to a girl he's beaten and cursed: there's darkness here, and there's light here, and I want you to be found by this cop who bends you around and says, "I'm sorry." I also wonder how your Prime Minister would feel if he was told to be near the Minister of the Interior, his daughter, his wife, this or this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0044par0190	Thank you, Mr. Sapan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0045par0191	Mr. President, please let them use a decent language when they take your place.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0043par0193	I'm telling you what the police officer you're in charge said.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0044par0194	Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0046par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our Home Secretary isn't here, although none of the ministers are. So, I'm thinking, did they get caught up in the excitement of our people here, too? Now, I'd like to read the first joke of Article 34 of our Constitution, perhaps they can watch us on TV, bureaucrats and Mr. Secretary. It says that the first joke of our Article 34 is that everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive rally and demonstration march without prior permission. Thus, our citizens have been using their constitutional rights for about a week. All authorities, including the Minister, the Prime Minister, must review this decision of our Constitution once and assess their speech and behavior. It's really sad that our detained citizens -- Mr. Yildıray just told me -- have shared information later. They need to be reported, too, so here our prosecutors and the Ministry must investigate the names of those mentioned.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0047par0200	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0048par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Today I celebrate the Miraç Kandili of Miraç, and the Miraç Kandili of all our people, and wish that today bring peace and happiness to our people and to humanity. In addition to the religion of Islam, I wish that the values, such as freedom, equality, brotherhood, as fundamental principles of humanity, were the common ideals of all mankind, and I wish that these values would prevail in our society. Today I also celebrate World Environment Day, World Environment Day. While the World Environment Day is scheduled to be discussed this week, I propose that the Proclamation of Nature and Biodiversity Protection Law, which has been postponed, be taken off the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and rewrote this bill with a genuine respect for the environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0049par0208	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0050par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, tonight we will welcome one of the best nights in the three months we consider blessed according to our religion Islam, the night of the Miraç Kandili. With both our country and the fighting and the war environment in the Middle East geography, we believe that this good night will be revealed again. We wish that Mirach Kandili would bring peace, brotherhood, peace, and freedom to the entire Islamic world and all mankind. On the other hand, today is June 5th, World Environment Day. We especially say that the ecological approach, which is the source of the environment and sustainable life that is the cradle of humanity, should be respected by every thought structure, every ideology and every social community. On this day, which is considered the Day of the Environment around the world, we call on the AKP to call again on its power to end ecological destruction for profit and Rant in Zabzon, in Bingol, in Hakkari, in all parts of the land. It must not be forgotten that ecological destruction is a situation that puts humanity at risk for profit. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0051par0215	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0052par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is one of the blessed days for the Islamic world, and we all understand the Mirach Kandili. We wish the Kandil to bring peace, peace and brotherhood to our country, our nation, and all mankind. We call for common sense to our people. At least, especially under the House's roof, I'd like to advise our MPs today to use a clean language, without insult, in the language of peace, the language of brotherhood, in accordance with the meaning and significance of today's day. Again, again, today is June 5th, World Environment Day. We all want to live in a clean, green, healthy environment. It is our duty to protect nature and the environment. For this reason, we all share a common desire for the development of the consciousness of nature and the environment in our country and to increase sensitivity. At this point, we respect the demands of some of our innocent citizens who have been environmentally sensitive, especially in recent events in the division, but we do wish that they would not be speculated, that the right information would be given. Look, in 2004, the green area in Istanbul, which was 30 million square meters, rose to 49 million square metres; we increased the green area by 64 per cent. The situation is obvious: our environmental awareness, our love for nature. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0053par0223	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0054par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. On June 5th, World Environment Day, I would like to pay tribute to all of our citizens in the fight at the Payum Travel Park, while pointing out the danger that the nickel mines in Manisa Province, Turgutlu and Gördes have given to our provinces and surrounding regions. I stress the dangers of opening a nickel mine in the open licature of sulfuric acid, the damage it will do to humans, forests, and environments, the need for the environmental slaughter of thousands of trees in the brush, and the health of our citizens who live there, and demand that the mine be stopped immediately, and I congratulate all of our people's Earth's Environment Day.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0053par0228	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0055par0231	Mr. President, thank you. And I've been saluting from this place the people who have resisted and claimed their rights in the country, and I want to say that I am with them. I would also like to point out that I am with the people of Malatya, who support the traveling activities. Since days ago, an action has been taking place in one of our neighborhoods about a cell tower. The institution that was there, without consulting anyone, without the opinion of the locals, was tyrannically setting up a cell tower there. Since days, people in several neighborhoods have been standing in Malatya. They want this removed from here. And I hereby declare that these rights are with them, that these thoughts should be removed, that this base station should be removed, and I condemn those who built this illegal cell tower, and those who gave it to them, and those who gave it to them, and those who gave it to them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0056par0234	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Following Ankara's role and capitalism function in the republic's declaration, it has become the largest city in the Central Anatolian Region and the second-largest city in the country over the period of time, with the right proportionality of its duties and responsibilities. Ankara's continuing and stable growth in the 1927-1975 period appears to have slowed down since 1980. This can be explained by the relative reduction of migration to the capital and the emergence of new attractions in the country, as part of the districts in Ankara are also a stage for some socioeconomic developments. Most of Ankara's migration from other provinces takes place from the city to the city and from the country to the city. Ankara is moving from district centers to city centre in the most intensive way. The reason for this can be explained as the surplus of the city's working areas and the higher quality of life, the hope that we can achieve standards. When the immigration movement within the province of Ankara is resolved, migrations from the district centre to the city centre seem to be the most important element. This is followed by migratory movements from villages to boroughs, and a significant movement in the migration movement from the town centre to the villages and the district centre is seen in the past period. Clearly, recent migrations were not caused by an additional search for comfort. On the contrary, it is a phenomenon of migration that can be expressed as a drift through great despair and depression based on poverty. It is also not possible to say that migratory metropolitan districts have embraced this migration freely and have solutions to problems. The emigrant carries on his poverty, his depression, his despair, but the capital cannot offer them any solution. After this date, the central district was terminated, and after the 3030th Law was adopted in 1983, the districts of Goatören and Mamak were added to the districts of the districts of Sincan, Etimesgut and Gölbbaş were formed into an 8-nation metropolitan city. In 2004, seven more counties were added to these eight counties within a 50km radius, but their relations with rural and rural structures and urban systems have led to the lack of interpretation of the entire city's municipal border as a metropolitan city. When Ankara counties study population growth in 2010 and 2011, the population growth in Ankara is largely due to migrations from outside Ankara. The districts of Çankaya, Etimesgut, Sincan, Goatören, Pursaklar are the main municipalities in the region. The population caused by migrations from 2000-2011 is as follows: Haymana: 32,705 of 54,087, with a reduction of 21.382, Honoriochhisar: 36,071 of 59,128, with a reduction of 23.057, Nallıhan: 30,351 of 40,677, with a reduction of 10.326, Ağış: 13,166 from 21,209, with 8.073 reductions. Bala is 18,861 from 39,714, with a reduction of 20,853. The problem in all our counties is the same in characteristics, and when we consider our Haymana district as an example, In the last decade, there have been 1,181 people who have migrated from the villages of Haymana County to Ankara in the last year, which have dropped from 54,087 to 21.382, to 32,705. In the Haymana countryside, livestock and farming have lost its appeal. The peasant who lost his animal and his land died in Ankara, hoping to find a job. It is clear that our citizens who emigrated to Ankara cannot solve the problem of business and livelihood. In schools in Haymana villages, the number of students has fallen due to immigration and has been transferred to transport training in district villages. As a result of the migration, the number of members of the District of Haymana has been reduced from four to three. In the early 1980s, Haymanian, who lived in prosperity and did not send his child to the service, had to black out from his village in the 2010s, where he was poor and hungry. For all these reasons, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the Constitutional Court under Articles 104 and 105, in order to stop the migration from villages to the city, to find ways to bring the village to meet its old prosperity days in its countryside. [[Ankara]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 4) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adıyaman]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] 16) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 17) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 20) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Gaziantep]] 27) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Aydın]] [[Niğde]] 30) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İzmir]] 32) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The home and garden walls of 45 Alevi citizens of Karapınar district of Adıyaman are marked with red and blue markers on 27/02/2012. In our country, pre-plot times, in places where the Alevi population is dense, it is organized by dark forces to create conflict among the peoples. Especially before the coup of September 12th in Kahramanmarash, the houses belonging to Alevi families were marked and the inhabitants of these houses were slaughtered. This recent incident in Adıyaman is compared to the Maraş events of the public. Both Adıyaman and Alevi, who live in other lands, are deeply troubled and troubled. With respect to the opening of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine and investigate who was responsible for the massacre in Marash. On 27/02/2012, 45 families living in Karapınar neighborhood of Adıyaman have discovered that red markers and writings were written on their homes and garden walls. All the houses where the signs are placed belong to our Alevi citizens. In our country, in the year 1978, in Maraş, in the 1980s, in Çorum, in the same way, there were signs of homes belonging to Alevi families, and then there were fascist attacks that resulted in massacres against these houses one by one, many of our Alevi citizens lost their lives. In the past, there have been provocative actions in Elazig, Hatay, Sivas and Gazi neighbourhoods, where Alevi lived, by some forces who wanted to create a conflict among the peoples during the political crisis. In all these unfortunate events, our citizens of Alevi have suffered great loss and suffering. For our citizens, these events cause anxiety and unrest. This incident in Adıyaman is likened to the massacre at Kahramanmarash, and he believes that the Alekis are being sent a message. Following the incident, Adıyaman Governor's statement stated that it could have been done by a child or as a provocation. In Adıyaman Karapınar neighborhood, our interviews and study of the owners of the houses where the signs were placed, families have expressed that they do not believe that these signs could have been made by a child, stating that they should not be simplified. Families say that they are anxious and uneasy, saying that they have a similar purpose, a provocative action against Alevi in the past with markings, and that they will not allow it. Indeed, the fact that only the walls of Alevi houses were marked gave rise to the idea that this would not be a childish act by a child. Many NGOs and sensitive individuals have been declared behind the incident by visiting solidarity in Adıyaman. The possibility of creating a new conflict in our country should be considered by the dark forces. Our country must not relive the events of Maraş. In order to prevent this, the investigation into who was behind this incident in Adıyaman (Adıyaman) and what its purpose is, a commission is set up to open a parliamentary investigation, an obligation to reduce the anxiety of our citizens. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We make it necessary for the Constitution to open Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Amendment, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Articles of the Constitution, in order to establish work with national and international NGOs working in this area to remove obstacles to the unionisation of workers. 14.03.2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] 12) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] 11 workers working on an AVM construction site in Esenyurt district of İstanbul were burned to death in a tent near which they slept, and work killings were once again on the agenda. Sadly, one of the events that took place every day resulted in the death of 20 workers in the Ankara Ostim Organised Industry District on February 3rd, during the construction of the dam in Adana Kozan, on February 24th. On February 11, 2011, 10 workers were killed in the coal field in Afşin district of Kahramanmarash province, and on January 31, 2008 İstanbul Davutpaşa was killed in an illegal workplace explosion in Tuzla shipyards, killing 23 workers in the middle of the day. While the labour laws describe these deaths as jobs accidents, the correct definition of these events is expressed by trade rooms and trade unions, whose work is murder. Even the official figures in the state's hands are sufficient to understand the seriousness of the situation, even though the statistics of workers' deaths cannot be kept in a very regular and realistic manner. The number of workers who have died from the crash of work in 1945, from 1946 to 2010, based on the Law on Occupational Diseases and Mother Insurance. (2011 data hasn't been released yet.) So every year, approximately 1,100 workers have lost their lives, while in the last ten years, a total of 10,723 workers have been killed in work. So, as the numbers show, the deaths of workers have not been an exception, but have been systematically carried out. Given the reasons for the deaths of workers, two of the main reasons are increased subcontracts that have become increasingly common in recent years because of the fact that they have been employing cheap, illegal and unsecured workers. According to DİSK's subcontractorship report, the highest levels of subcontractorship are construction, mining, shipbuilding sectors. A total of 35,042 people employed in the construction industry are employed by the original employers, and the remaining 25,029 are employed by sub-employees. So the sub-employees employ 71 per cent of the employees in the sector. In the construction industry, there are almost entirely subcontractors, jobs and unsecured jobs. According to TÜİK 2010, 1,520 people work in this sector while 1 million 100,000 work as seasonal workers. In particular, subcontractorisation is increasing in areas such as cleaning, food, transportation, storage. According to the DİSK report, 30 per cent of the labour force works unsecuredly except for government officials. Moreover, the connection between the subcontractor and the main firm victimises the worker at some point, causing the workers to lose their rights in business accidents and again be victimised. So, the rights of workers are being imposed while the major main firms are moving to work with subcontractors to avoid taking any responsibility because they are not dependent on them. Despite the legal and legislative improvements of these murders, the increase every year brings the state's closer approach to this problem in a more serious way. In a union workplace and countries with a high union rate, labor killings are diminishing. For example, in Zonguldak Basin, 100,000 tons of coal per coal per worker died at 0.3, while in non-union subcontractors, that number is 8.3. In light of all this information, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be set up in Turkey for the investigation of business killings and subcontractorisation and how the state's control mechanisms should be activated in order to prevent work killings, to be established with national and international NGOs working in this area, to remove obstacles to workers' unionisation. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and then I'll vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting Wednesday/6/2013 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 6 December 2012, it was suggested that the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate the problems given by Mardin MP Erol Dora and her friends (2031 rows and no.) was taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which was given to the Turkish National Assembly in order to investigate the problems given by seasonal agricultural workers and to be read in presentations Wednesday (March 5/6/2013). In favor of the proposal, Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0057par0409	Mr. President, first of all, I ask that the night of the release of the Holy Prophet (SAV) which is very important to all Muslims today be good for the whole world of Islam and for humanity and for all mankind, and for all mankind, the Lord God of God to treat us with His mercy in solving all our problems, and I salute all of you. Again, today is Earth Environment Day. And the environment, you know, is getting the attention of the whole world, becoming more and more important. Unfortunately, as we lose the values that God has given us around, we can only understand the importance of the environment, of the tree, of the water, of the air, of how important it is in human life, and many of us, despite these losses, are still unaware of it, hopefully God will give them a consciousness and a reminder. Dear friends, today's speech is about farm workers. You know, every year when this season comes, we're faced with the drama of an agricultural worker. The first question is: Why do these farm workers leave their own country and accept slavery under such primitive, negative conditions and very little wages? There's only one answer: their desperation. So why hasn't this desperation been resolved in so many years? See, that's what we need to discuss. Agricultural workers' serence is not the end of the story. These have been told for many years in all the nakedness of Kemal Tahir, Orhan Kemal, Yasar Kemal, and many other novelists, and the cinematographer's works, and all the bitter reality. Children 10-12 years of age are employed in the sun for fifteen hours, and girls in a wedding dress are also sentenced to slavery with no social security, no social security per day, and many of them receive three proper meals. I mean, if they had a three-course meal on the level of food that we eat, that's not even enough for three meals. Beyond that, the negative attitude they face is another aspect of all this drama, as the Governor of the Army did not put the farm workers in the Army a few years ago. So, again, why do these people have to live in such dire circumstances and do this job? I've said it again, and I'll say it again, and there's only one answer: their desperation. Last you know, 15 farm workers died in an accident again in Adıyaman. Dear friends, there is a very famous saying: If a man is satisfied in his own land, if he has a human life, if he has no serious economic and political problems, he does not leave easily wherever he lives. This is also a two - sentence summary of the whole human migration story, as well as of the migration history. Today, the largest agricultural workers were given southeast, and before that, the cities of Urbana, Adıyaman, Mardin, and Siirt were especially leading. And one of the big reasons is that the irrigation ducts that have been going back to the snake story for years still haven't been finished. Unless these irrigation channels are finished, as long as the land isn't watered and other industrial investments aren't done, these people are forced to throw themselves out, and now, no matter what the conditions, the past governments have been willing to do so for years, and they can't find a cure for these people, they can't record them, they can't make them insured, they can't solve health problems, and maybe the worst of them are taken away every year before school closes, and their education is taken and taken away every year. Dear friends, of course there's a solution to all these problems. No problem in the world is desperate. If the Government of the Republic of Turkey could find a solution to these 90-year-old foundation stories, put these serious issues ahead of us, we wouldn't be talking about them today either. Members of lawmakers, it is often said that when the Southeastern Anatolia Project -- called GAP -- is finished, 22 dams, 19 hydropower plants and irrigation channels -- will provide jobs for 3 million 800 people -- firmly and indirectly -- to a family of 5 on average -- the average family average in the region is at least 20 million -- to a population of at least 20 million people. Today, the population in the region is only 7 million, including Gaziantep and Urbana, the total population in the cities covered by this project, called GAP. If this project could have been done quickly, if these irrigation channels could have been finished, today, let alone these people would have lived a proper life on their own land, in their own places, instead of willing to suffer a thousand kinds of sufferings. Again, dear friends, regional attraction centers would be set up. That's another project the government's been talking about for years and has declared some of it, regional attraction centers. These regional attraction centers are missing today, too. Instead of setting up regional attraction centers every year, setting up serious attraction centers for the region, creating jobs across Turkey, creating jobs, such as the third bridge and Istanbul, making a second throat, making 14 million fixed populations of Istanbul, which are no longer living with its population, for 25 million dollars, for 30 million dollars, and for God's sake, and for God's sake, where are you going? Dear friends, we have warned the government not only in these matters, but in many cases, and most importantly, in foreign policy, I, myself, myself, have repeatedly spoken warning from this platform. Mr. Foreign Minister, I've repeatedly told Mr. Prime Minister that Iraqi policies are wrong, that Syrian policies are wrong, that Israeli policies are wrong, that Iranian policies are wrong, but there's a famous saying, talk, talk, talk, it's no use. I am alone, amazed, and greatly appreciated in my nails, and there is no second leader in an entire Middle East who can become enemies with both Israel and Hezbollah. How did you do it, how did we get to this point, how did we become enemies both with Israel and Hezbollah at the same time, how we could have broken up with both Iran and Maliki and Syria? As we make these warnings and make these speeches, especially over the past week, there should be a lesson in the floods of public unrest and anger, while a Prime Minister's advisor, a deputy minister, says, "Please don't eat it, don't eat it. Please don't eat it. Please don't eat it." Look, it's not us, it's not the opposition, it's you, Prime Minister. He doesn't mind either, but the turmoil, chaos, troubles that the country will enter will return to us as a bill. Please, don't do this and learn from these paintings. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0058par0423	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Against him, Adana MP Fatosh Gürkan. Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0059par0427	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, our fellow citizens who follow us, first and foremost, today, the Miraç Kandili wish our candle to be blessed, and to bring peace and peace to all mankind. Today, of course, is Environmental Day. I just asked for a promise, but it wasn't my turn. As an attorney of the Forest General Directorate for many years, I would like to point out that during the AK PARTI administrations, there were 120 urban forests, 135 honey forests, and even 25 ongoing honey forests. (x) Words were expressed in a non-English language by the Hajip in this chapter. And, of course, we all believe that the environment is our future. We all need to be environmentally sensitive, but as a mother, especially in recent actions, I would like to point out that middle school, high school students, even high school students, have been led by provocative actions, unfortunately, trees in the garden of our citizen's house have been torn out, even their cars burned, and our children who have been used in such acts should be sensitive to the environment and society, and should not be sent to them. Yes, I'm speaking against the BDP's proposal today regarding the problems of workers working in agriculture by the Peace and Democracy Party. Especially the labor and the sweat, the virtues that should be respected most for us. In order to seek out his livelihood, this sacred endeavor to provide for his child's basic needs is a situation in which he must bow to all sides. Our religion and cultural values also stress that working is a necessity, that the labor of the worker is sacred. In our culture, it's more about how hard you work than what you do. Agriculture is also the head of the sectors where labor and labour are intensively involved. While the workers we refer to as workers of agriculture work in their territory, our workers from our Southeast Anatolian regions are also coming to our region to find provisions for our cities, where agricultural activities are concentrated. One of the cities where agricultural workers from different counties come in intensively is Adana, my constituency. Therefore, I am well aware of the working conditions and conditions of our agricultural workers who have come to our province in the past years. My father was a farmer for many years. I'm a man who works in a field and knows the troubles they're going through. Yes, in the previous years, to sum up the conditions of our agricultural workers, they were living under conditions where there was no need for any necessary needs, really -- so sorry -- bathrooms, bathrooms, even food. Today, in the time of our power, really -- I've been going to places where farm workers are, especially from time to time -- where our citizens, agricultural workers, bathrooms, toilets, food food areas, and especially -- we care a lot about education -- where even the education of the children of our agricultural workers, even if it isn't a school -- has been provided for the areas and the opportunities for education. First, of course, under the health insurance of our agricultural workers, as is the case with all our citizens, our agricultural workers have obtained free health insurance, according to income detection. The Prime Minister's sensitivity to the issue has improved the current situation in terms of transportation, housing, education, health, security, social environments, working and social security, and social security of our citizens from other provinces to other provinces where they are located. As part of this project, about $90m has been transferred under 55 projects prepared by 37 district governorates from 2010. About 300,000 of our citizens have been served as part of the project. In 2010, the Project for the Reconstruction of Seasonal Travelers' Work and Social Lives was transferred to the project 44 million, 27.5 million, and 21 million budgets in 2012. Non-stop workers in agriculture and forest work were insured after 1 March 2011 and were also provided with the necessary assistance in case of a business accident and occupational illness. Again, agricultural workers worked 18 days in 2008 and were allowed to be considered insured for 30 days, and this practice continues to increase by one point per year starting in 2011. In addition, our mobile health care teams continue to offer health care to seasonal farm workers, and inoculation studies are being conducted. Again, with these studies, work is being done in our cities to improve the living standards of our agricultural workers through our governorship, boroughs and municipalities. In 2012, 20,458 agricultural workers remain in 3,953 tents in 64 settlements. The ground level and regulation of living spaces has been processed. Electricity and plumbing have been processed, electricity has been given to 12 settlements, transformer has been installed in 2 settlements, water pipes have been installed to 14 settlements, water-linked, and so on. There are also other containers of toilets, shower stalls, laundry and dishwashing, 598 of them. Again, 215 dumpsters, 40 septic tanks were taken and 11 settlements were surrounded by wire. All settlements have been provided with drinking and using water. When we look at the educational opportunities, Tuzla, which is based on Karataş, has been built into a prefabricated school with five courses and a prefabricated dining hall of 160 students. In the 2010-2011 school year, 188 students were moved to the centre with transport training and were given lunch. Children's playgroups have been placed in the tent settlements. The detection and monitoring of educational children of seasonal traveling farm workers is being followed and controlled by further education. Each dwelling place, according to the number of tents, has been set up in a multipurpose service tent. The total spending in Adana province is 6 million, 071,569 TL. Our work for our seasonal farm workers will continue to increase. None of these studies were done before 2012. We continue to work and serve, equal and just for every part of our society. Yes, I particularly think that the demand for a new parliamentary investigation is not in place at this stage, since our work on solving the problems of our seasonal agricultural workers is being carried out with great precision as it has been so far. I would also like to say that a citizen of Adana had specifically asked me to say that he had destroyed dozens of trees to build a service building for an opposition municipality in Adana. That's where I want to say it. I salute your high council and our beloved nation who follow us.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0060par0445	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0061par0446	Mr. President, sir, in the speech of the orator, there are toilets and baths and drinking water in place of temporary agricultural workers. They have made statements. I'd like a quick word to make this right.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0062par0447	Fix what?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0060par0448	So, you're saying these things don't happen.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0061par0449	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0062par0450	What's this gonna fix, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0063par0451	Fix what?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0061par0452	Now let me give you an example. I'm sorry, look, right now, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0062par0453	Mr. President, won't the speaker who goes up there say anything?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0064par0454	Just a minute... step into your position, make a statement from your position, please. Fix it, so he gave false information.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0061par0455	Okay. Yes, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0065par0456	Mr. President, I asked for a promise, and I need to make a statement. I was in the system, so if you'll just promise me...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0064par0457	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0061par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Mr. orator, the tent is provided and provided with the need for drinking water, toilets and baths in the cities. I give you a concrete example: Şanlıurfa Province, Sırrın Küne Küme Houses; look, inside the city, the citizen has no toilets, no drinking water, no use water, no electricity. There's no toilets in the province of Two Şanlıurfa -- historical monuments, historical sites -- where there's no toilets, there's no landmarks and there's no water. Another problem: On June 3rd, when my advisor was leaving the House, as he was heading home, by the police, the ministries, they took the boy into custody concerning the Parliament, and they only released him at night. So, if an MP's advisor -- taken into custody as a member of the terrorist organization -- is going to print the House, if the ministries are going to print it -- this Parliament that pays for it, this Parliament that employs it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, it's only in dictatorships to detain every innocent person who's come all this way.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0066par0466	I don't know what this is about.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0061par0467	Here's the document. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0066par0469	What did that fix?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0067par0470	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Aydın, you've entered the system. What was it for?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0068par0472	Sir, I want an explanation based on 60.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0067par0473	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0068par0475	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, today we called Miraç Kandili, we said we needed to use a language more sensitive, cleaner, more moral, more leveled than each day, and in that particular sense, the Republican People's Party MP, Antalya MP, who had just spoken according to 60. It may be, no one approves of that word, and we condemn those who did it, but by reflecting it, we see it as a very informal way of describing it as an example to other people who had nothing to do with it. You can't make up for wrong. We don't engage you in aggressive behavior with these kinds of examples to no one else's president or any other executive. I blame him for his attitude, and I actually want him to apologize, and I want him to take back his words. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0069par0478	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0070par0479	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0069par0480	Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0070par0481	I wanted a promise from Mr. Mahmut...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0069par0482	Here, I'll give you a minute. Let's drop it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0070par0484	Mr. President, of course, he has taken my word against my speech, Mr. Mahmut. As an example, I specifically told them about the work done in Adana... I mean, the work done throughout Turkey, but I gave them the number of baths and so on about Adana. Seasonal workers' fields are always changing. If there is such a problem in Şanlıurfa, we will tell the governorship, and the need will be met. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0071par0487	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. In his favor, Adana MP Turgay Develi. Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0494	Mr. President, I'm speaking in favor of the BDP group proposal. Frankly, it's a very serious matter, I think it's vital to have a parliamentary research commission set up. I, too, know the problems of all of this as a journalist who was born in Adana, who was a child among these workers, and who was also a journalist for thirty years. I'm also signing my signature on the speech made by Mr. Tantan about these temporary farm workers. Actually, he said it was missing. The problem is not only why people go, but also how to work out the problems they face where they come from. Of course, the AK PARTY, as usual, is actually reducing the capacity of Parliament and politics to solve problems, ignoring everything, all problems, as it does in this regard. However, Adana has taken such serious migrations over the past 40 years that the city's demographic structure, urban structure, architectural structure has been broken down, and the people who have come are not happy, and those who live there are suffering from harmony. There are problems not only in Adana, but also in our other provinces. This matter needs to be thoroughly investigated and placed on the table. You guys should be happy about this. I mean, that's one of the most important problems in the country. In our country, the migrations in the southeast need to be resolved in their relations, integration, social problems, and so on. Speaking of Adana, riots or civil disobedience, which began in connection with the actions of this Travel Park, have continued since the first day in Adana. Tens of thousands of people have moved slowly to the slums of Ataturk Park, Ziyapaşa Park, Gazipaşa Boulevard. In the new Dam neighbourhood, north and west of the city, this has turned into resistance, rebellion, civil disobedience to the AK PARTI. Fortunately, we have not encountered any mortal events in Adana, but the police attitude is the same in Istanbul, Ankara, and Adana. I've had a lot of trouble with police gas bombs, plastic bullets. I've told this to the police chiefs, to the governor, but in cases like this, when there's a big social event, no one knows about the congressman, the mayor, the president, our cops, they're getting a lot of blackouts. Also, I'd like to give a warning to the AK PARTI MPs here that, if you'll notice, the events are increasingly heading towards the AK PARTI district buildings, borough buildings. In Adana, the activists destroyed my car during the events. Later, when I went to them, they told me that you were an MP of the AKP. They told me that they were doing it, and that's what they came up with. So, here's the thing, folks: your cruelty, your authoritarianism, your understanding that ignores everyone, has created a very serious savings in society. The reason for this is that now, Mr. Prime Minister, on the first day of the action, we can't find out who the answer is. Who are we going to talk to? Since the day you came to power, you've privatized over 10 million subcontractors and children that you've made your employees unsecured by privatizing them. Since the day you came to power, for example, in Adana, farmers have planted seeds, cast medicines, watered them, burned their diesel, produced crops, harvested them, and still no wheat base price. The farmers are in the hands of the loan shark. You're not explaining the base price.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0073par0499	There are also those who say, "Don't explain."
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0500	They're great landowners, they're your allies. I'm talking about small-income farmers, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0074par0501	The whole nation's on our side.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0075par0502	Everyone's been our ally, you're out of allies!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0503	Now, friends, 143 workers died in a work accident in May. You've come to power saying we'll beat poverty and corruption. For ten years, you've put the children of the people who voted for you to work with a great staff and a temporary rehabilitation, but you've created a business of your own by selling big money, privatisation contracts, by selling institutions. Now, society is blocked. Look, society's blocked. My advice to you is that you keep our voices down here on legitimate ground, even in Parliament, and you don't talk on commissions. Right now, Parliament TV is broadcasting, which will be cut at seven o'clock. If you stop this opposition from speaking, from making a noise, it's a complication from somewhere else, the community's going out on the street. What you don't understand today, we can't find any answers. The masses you call them are the ones that have been saving up all these ten and a half years of your power. Since the Justice and Development Party no longer understands the problems, because it suffers from political constipation, it can't manage the problems, it can't maintain the solution. There's got to be a cure. The solution is to run Parliament, to listen to the voice of the people. When you don't listen to the public's voice, when you don't listen to the voice of the MPs in Parliament, as long as you stop the opposition from meeting with the community, I did, I did. As long as you kept the logic going, friends, you can't reveal this solution. Now, here's the 50 percent thank-you community that's been supporting you for ten and a half years. Those 17-year-old girls, 18-year-olds, children, at the markets, in the factories, with their headscarved for 12 hours at minimum wage. You run it for 700-800 hours, you get their vote, but then the new rich of the AK PARTY give opportunities for new capital. This isn't sustainable anymore. You have to give up this job. Look, think calmly, really, think calmly. It's the last place you've brought the country in for ten and a half years. Today on Twitter, there was a message -- which happens in competition programs -- saying that if the prime minister had asked the people instead of using their 50 percent of the jokers' rights, they wouldn't have happened. You've closed your ears to society, and with 49 percent of the vote you received two years ago, you're ignoring these people, trying to ignore them. Use politics to solve problems, friends, don't use opposition to sustain opposition, to rive down one party's power. I have a suggestion for you: turn on the Capitol TV. Let the people hear what the MPs here say, what the opposition MPs say, and let them hear what you're saying, give up the closed society. Look, that's what the streets turn into. Today, thousands of workers strike. Resistance continues throughout Turkey in taxi, Ankara, Adana, Turkey. There's a simple demand: it's fucking over!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0076par0510	Is it fucking over?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0511	They say... that's what society says.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0076par0512	Who are they calling?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0513	They don't tell you, they tell everybody.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0077par0514	They're talking about you!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0515	They're telling everyone. I've had enough, they say. I've had enough of this.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0077par0517	Who are they calling Ulan?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0518	That's not what I'm saying, counselors, that's not what society... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, can I tell you something? If you could just hear what's being said on the street, what's being said! If you could just hear it! You should hear what's being said! We have to keep the diameter and caliber of politics functional, folks. Enough! Enough, society says. We can do this together. Turn on the Capitol TV, turn it on! Open up, open up...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0078par0521	It's open now.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0522	Since eight days ago in Adana, tens of thousands of workers, tens of thousands of young men, women, and older women have supported this action.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0079par0523	They're all children!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0524	One public property hasn't been damaged, one.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0079par0525	Except for your car!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0072par0526	My car too! Bless them, bless them! But I warn you from here: the persecution you have done for ten and a half years has stirred up the society, so let it go. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0080par0530	Ask people, people! People see the tyrants!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0081par0531	Thank you, Mr. Develi. Against him, Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0082par0535	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group's proposal from the Peace and Democracy Party. Of course, agricultural workers suffer from temporary, seasonal workers - circumstances that they live in. They don't work in a comfortable environment, they have problems where they need to stay or meet their needs. This can always be done with administrative decisions, not with a research proposal or commission, to investigate, to address their problems. For him, the AK PARTY, our government, with all the institutions of bureaucracy, is doing its best to find this solution by its rules.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0083par0538	18 people died, 18 people died five days ago.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0082par0539	I wish you all the best to welcome the CHP Adana MP who was just speaking here. And I want to thank him, too, because he also found out that his own vehicle was looted, that there was a looting going on here, and we thank him for that. He stated on the council that some of the goods of innocent citizens were looted in these cases. Look, last night at Dikmen Street -- we have a number of citizens who actually act as innocent with this pot pan, we respect their demands -- they beat one of them to death, and 15 of them didn't know what it was, and they beat him to death. These activists beat up a kid among the pot-pan activists. That boy has no guilt, no guilt, no guilt, no guilt. Now, doesn't this act, which is considered innocent by stealing pots and pans, carry water to public buildings in this Redbear Square, to the mill of those who throw stones at the police? With this innocent act, of course, they will express their democratic demands somewhere, and we can understand them, but let no one carry water into the mill of those who throw stones at the police in this Kızılay Square or in the Zodiac Square, to the Prime Minister's building, or to some AK PARTY buildings, or to those who try to raid them. Here, we serve the people as the AK PARTY, thinking about who I serve, putting everyone's hands on their conscience and putting their head in their hands. To whom do you serve, and to whom do those who support this action serve? Let's take a good look at this. Of course, every time we do it as an AK PARTY, there will be some mistakes, some mistakes, of course, as a human being. We need to make an effort to solve this in democratic ways, with a good use of our style, and we need to prevent these actions from encouraging, provocative talks, because if this country goes down, we all go down, this country goes down, we all go down, we all go down. So, let's listen more, let's do more opposition, of course, but I say we should pay attention to what this nation, this nation, this country, to protect our national unity, our integrity. I say we're against the BDP group proposal, with all due respect, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0084par0544	Thank you, Mr. Special. Here you go, Mr. Sapan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0085par0548	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Group, I have been promised an answer to the deputy president's words. Thank you. Now, when I said "I'm sorry," I saw it again, for some reason, that the truth really hurts people. I made a determination, I shared it. It's all real, even incomplete. You know what the lady who heard those words said to the police out of fear? So I'll do you -- dot, dot -- in this darkness. She said to the police, "Okay, brother." You know, because it hurts me, because I feel like it's been done to me, I have to express it here as a congressman. Of course, there's nothing to apologize for, but I can add you to my samples. How would you feel if it happened to you, if it happened to your family? I'm saying that in addition to that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0086par0552	Thank you, Mr. Sapan. I don't want to...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0087par0556	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0086par0557	You've got a roll call. We'll do it. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Develi, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Serter, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Elector, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Special, Mr. Tureli, Mr. Turteleli. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process, and then I shall vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Wednesday, 05.06.2013 (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On May 07, 2013, it was suggested that the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of the agricultural faculty and veterinary faculty graduates, which we have given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by 12518 points, and that the parliamentary research proposals for the problems and solutions of agricultural engineers in our country, may 08 May 2013, 12631, should be held on Wednesday, 2006,2013 (now) in the General Assembly. In favour of the proposal, Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I begin my words, I congratulate you and all of our citizens on the Miraç Kandili, saying, "May God bring you to the year without sorrow." My colleagues, who want to complete higher education, have pledged on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to investigate the problems and solutions of agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers, landscape architects and veterinary physicians. I salute you all. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism employs agriculture, food, water products engineers, the engineering staff. As it is known, one of humanity's most basic needs is healthy nutrition. It is possible to satisfy this need with sufficient produce of healthy food. In recent years, as in the world, awareness and significant improvements of health food production and supply have been made in our country, and these issues have been often brought to the public agenda. Increased demand for healthy food production and supply has also led to increased interest in engineering, agriculture, water products and food engineers and veterinary medicine. In our country, agriculture and animalism remain important despite all its negativity, both because of the employment it provides to many of our people who work directly in production, and because of the production and the food supply it provides to agriculture-based industry. In order to buy more products from the unit area, our technicians and veterinary physicians have had a great deal to do with developing new training techniques, rehabilitation methods, and promoting them to manufacturers. The development of new agricultural techniques is really important because the land is limited. People starving on one side, people struggling with obesity on the other. Our people have a lot of problems, a lot of work and a lot of work to get out of school with a lot of difficulty and a lot of trouble. In our country, the wrong agricultural and animalism policies, especially during the AKP administrations, have unfortunately led to the unemployment of agricultural engineers, food engineers and water products engineers, and our landscape architects and veterinarians, and the wrong employment policies, and the very serious problems of workers within the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. This is a very serious contribution from our engineers and veterinarians to the more qualified, mass and economic fulfillment of agricultural production, which includes a number of scientific practices from field, greenhouse, chicken coop, barn to market. In recent years, rather than scientific criteria, more and more political reasons have affected the quality of education in virtually every region of Turkey, with more than enough agricultural faculty opening up to some of them, with almost all the departments in the newly opened universities, with the student profile, the practice field, the labs, the training staff, and the lack of staff involved in new problems. In the 1980s, in the first decade of the university entrance exams, the agricultural schools, which the students preferred in the first decade, have found it difficult to find students in many universities, although they have accepted students with very low grades in recent years. Food engineers have been very serious contributors to our people's safe, healthy food supply, production, control. What happens in our country in food control causes unfair competition and public health problems in the industry. Due to the lack of the obligation to employ specialists in food companies, reliable, healthy food supplies have been left at the mercy of businesses, unfortunately. Our ministry currently has around 5,000 food inspectors. In addition, the number of registered food producers is about 40,000, while the number of businesses that sell and distribute food products is about 500,000. Even this painting shows there's a shortage of food engineers in the industry. On the other hand, reports to the Alo 174. Food Line are increasing daily and waiting for solutions. In the ministry, food engineers, such as agricultural consultants, can also be employed as food consultants in small and medium-sized food companies, which will contribute to providing safe food for people. In this way, public control in the food industry can be more effective, preventing unfair competition and will be an important factor in protecting consumer health. On the other hand, more than 20,000 agricultural engineers are traveling idlely or working in areas that have nothing to do with their education. Currently, there are agricultural engineers working in public tasks, such as teaching, police, bailiffs, guards. This is a serious waste. These wrong policies must be put to an end at once. Currently, more than 20,000 staffs are available at the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Our agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, food engineers, water products engineers, landscape architects want to meet our farmers, producers, contribute to Turkish agriculture and animalism as soon as possible. Congressmans, on the other hand, the fact that Water Products Act 1380 has not been defined as an official water products engineer and that they are not authorized in water products protection and control areas is a serious obstacle to the employment of water products engineers in the public and private sector. In our country right now, more than 15,000 water products and fishing technology engineers are seriously victimised. Thus, these victims also have a negative effect on the country's agriculture and animalism, in which the farmer, the manufacturer, is miserable. Even if you don't agree, the farmer's lair is moaning. Dear lawmakers, millions of acres of agriculture can be farmed, and the treasure land remains empty. With a law or a law decree, these lands can be assigned to agricultural engineers who want to operate. We're surrounded by seas on three sides. Our domestic water sources -- even though we're not rich -- are a serious and considerable property, which may be possible for our water products engineers to take advantage of. With the support of business loans, exemplary agricultural practices can be done around here, and our country's economy can be valued with considerable employment and integration. Dear lawmakers, truly, the conditions of our agriculture are heartbreaking. Because the input costs are increasing day by day. In 2002, when you consider it Milat, it's one of the most serious entries in agriculture -- it's enough to sell five pounds of wheat, while today our farmer has to sell six kilos, seven kilos of wheat. On the other hand, in 2002, he had to deliver 10 kilograms of beets to buy 1 litre of diesel, but today, unfortunately, he had to deliver 100 pounds, 46 kilos of beets. This, indeed, is the most serious proof of where our farmer, our producer, came from, where he came from. This negative course of action should be called a halt. Because importing livestock, imported livestock, imported animals, imported meat, importing so many agricultural products, our farmer's life is killing him, producing him, regretting what he's going to do. On the other hand, we are importing very seriously about the closure of many of our deficits, especially our raw oil deficit at the point of oil plants and bait plants. Here are our agricultural engineers, here are our vets, here are our food and water products engineers, waiting and waiting. It's our job to clear the way for them, to give them opportunity and opportunity, which we, as opposition here, are not enough to express problems. I've shared several solutions from this platform with you, but I repeat. We're not tired of saying these problems, we're not tired of saying them, but you're far, far from listening or expressing them, far from understanding them. The presence of our lawmakers, members of our ruling party, is also a sign of this. Really, you don't care about agriculture at all. One of the solutions is that we can be contracted, guaranteed production, paid billions of dollars to cover our shortage of food and oil plants from the outside. Dear lawmakers, it is urgent to open Parliamentary research to determine the measures that will be taken by investigating engineering -- which is agricultural, food, water products -- and the problems of our young graduates from landscape architects and veterinary schools. I look forward to your support and your appreciation. I salute your high council. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Against you, Hatay MP Orhan Karasayar. Here you go, Mr. Blackbeard.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0088par0605	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Justice and Development Party Group to recommend an MHP group. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my speech, I wish our blessed Miraç Kandili, the blessed Miraç Kandili, and the blessed Miraç Kandili of our holy nation and all the world of Islam. A total of 16,841 personnel were taken into custody by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, including 10,269 engineers and 6,572 vets in the last ten years. However, our 4.060 food engineers were employed to work in the private sector as food inspectors. In addition, staff recruitment can be carried out each year in terms of staff and service needs, according to the KPSS results, within the open posting quota, which is assigned to the central management budget law. In the case of visas from the Ministry of State Staff and Finance, you can receive contracted personnel under Article 4/B of Law 657. The recruitment of staff is conducted within the framework of norm staff planning and service needs. 8.038 engineers and veterinary physicians were also enabled to employ as certified agricultural advisers in the private sector, as well as serious opportunities for agricultural units, cooperatives and businesses as well as for the employment of agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians and food engineers as food inspectors. The TAR-GEL Project is a study that has been put into practice to ensure more effective publishing activity for our farmers in the rural area, and has given serious improvements in the diversity and quality of agricultural production in the environment due to the employment of their staff as part of their jobs. Those still working as officers of the TAR-GEL personnel are obliged to reside in the village. In order to address our village citizens' problems with agriculture, they do the necessary research, they do the necessary research, they do the research, they do the best they can, not to do agriculture in the region, but to do farming at the highest levels of technology, not from grandpa, from father. By holding hands with our farmers in our villages, they have increased the quality of both our products, fruits, vegetables, and our citizens in our country to consume quality fruit, vegetables, agricultural food products, and by increasing the quality of our exports, Turkey has been the key factor in increasing our exports fourfold in the last decade. Dear friends, of course, our friends here have had talks about the surplus of agricultural schools and the surplus of students in agricultural schools. Of course, dear friends, we are a land of agriculture. We're in a geography where the most efficient and successful work on agriculture in the world can be done. For years, no necessary measures were taken, no technological and scientific support was given at the point of clearing the way for our farmer about innovations. From the day we came to power, there have been many studies in this process, and as a result of these studies today, the quality of our country's agriculture, the quality of our farmers' products, the quality of the food our citizens have consumed has been significantly improved. Of course, we will continue to work in that direction in the future. Dear friends, you can appreciate that there is no country anywhere in the world that can provide jobs for all of its students -- not just from agricultural schools, but from other departments, from other departments. But, you know, in recent years, the most important strategic substances in the world are food and energy. I believe that food is ahead of the energy. We also know that agriculture engineers in our country are not only at the gates of state, but also in the private sector, as our congressman has just told us, the treasures are being opened to the use of our friends, given loans to support production, because we know that there will be a shortage of agricultural products in the world that are concerned about a serious food and the future of humanity right now. Of course, in order for these to be done, for these areas to be opened to agriculture, for us to produce quality products around here, we have to first make our farmland irrigable. And you can appreciate that we have no chance of producing this particular agricultural product on irrigated farmland. Now, our State Water Affairs has done some very serious work on these issues. In many parts of our country, the irrigable farmland has now reached about 60 million squares, and with the support of our government for our watering-opening fields, and with the support of our government for both collect and pressurised irrigation, I believe that when this work is done, very serious distances will be taken. Dear friends, dear friends, of course time is short, there is much to say. I'm an agricultural engineer, a friend of yours who trades in all areas of agriculture. One of my business arms was an agricultural pharmaceutical dealership. There's been a lot of talk about the increase in agricultural inputs. Of course, I agree with our friends when we do my job, but when you go back to 1999-2000 years or later, when you go back to the year before, the price of an agricultural drug or seed on my shelf, because they're used for a seasonal drug, and when that season passes, you keep it on your shelf -- when the next season comes, me and my friends, when we say 20 dollars for a $10 product, when you get that product, when you come back from the firm, when you look at the bill, you'd even say the price of the products, the price of agriculture entries, they'd go up 100 percent every year. But, you know, diesel is a product that we're all importing, but other than that, there's a lot of products right now, valuable friends, and I can give you names from here, where our cotton-making friends know, there's a drug called Mospilan. In 2000, 100 grams of this drug was 35 million with the money of that time, and we would have invested the company's money at least 20 days ago, the drug would have come to us a month later. Dear friends, the price of that drug is 3.5 million today, so the price of the drug has dropped by 30 percent. Many like it, the seeds are the same. So, dear friends, of course we're going to discuss these, we're going to evaluate these, we're going to try to give our farmer more opportunity, but we have to remember what happened in the process. Now, when I listen to my friends here, we spend the weekend in our districts, we stay in our farms, we listen to our farmers' problems, we listen to our ministers, our concerned agencies, our chief executives, our county agriculture managers, we try to fix their problems, but we don't have to deny that today our farmers are farming with air-conditioned tractors. The number of tractors sold, the number of tools, equipment used by the farmer; plus, another important study of our agricultural engineers like this -- one of the work done to make agricultural products more valuable to our country and our region, you know, through COSGEB. In this regard, close to 25 ▪ facilities have been established in my area, and many of them work with our agricultural engineer friends. So, dear friends, in short, in the time of our power, there has been serious work done for our farmers, both for our agricultural engineers and for our farmers, very serious projects have been implemented. One of the most important things is the seed reform law. My dear friends, in the previous period, we could not find seeds to sow in our country unless we passed this law, but now the import of seeds is down by 35 to 40 percent. Our scientists, our agricultural engineers, with these applications of world standards, with these studies, have come to the level of producing a lot of seeds. And in the future, I hope we'll all join hands in a fight to improve the quality of production, exports and agriculture, with both our agricultural engineers and our farmers and our country being a very important agricultural country. I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0089par0619	Thank you, Mr. Blackbeard. Mr. Yilmaz, you've entered the system. You must have some explanations. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0090par0622	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you to the speaker for agreeing to some things, but unfortunately, he didn't go beyond the suggestion. Because our agricultural engineers, our food engineers, our water products and fishing technology, our engineers and our vets, our grown-up people, they don't want charity, they don't want work and they want money. They want a little bit of what you provide for the holdings, the big companies, a little bit of what you give them. We've got rich lands, we've got sun, but our municipalities are still bringing in a tree that's 3-4 years old. Landscape engineers and agricultural engineers are also out of work, which is unacceptable. I ask that this be resolved immediately, and therefore that they support our proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0091par0626	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. In his favor, Mersin MP Vahap chooses. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0092par0630	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on the problems of those who graduated from agricultural schools and veterinary schools and their research, their finding solutions. Today is Miraç Kandili. I celebrate the Miraç Kandili of the entire Islamic world. It's also Earth Environment Day. I celebrate World Environment Day, hoping to live in a more clean, habitable, healthy environment. My dear friends, agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians; these two trade groups serve in agriculture and livestock sectors, one of the most important sectors in Turkey. More than 100,000 agricultural engineers have graduated from agricultural schools since the 1930s. There are still 26 agricultural schools. There are also five agricultural and natural sciences faculty, two agricultural sciences and technologies faculty, and 4,000 new agricultural engineers graduate from these schools every year. Currently, the Department of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has 15,377 agricultural engineers under contract or on staff. The ministry's staff is 20,265, which includes agricultural faculty graduates, veterinary faculty graduates, who could be required by the Finance Ministry. Last year, for 2013, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism requested 13,000 staff, the Finance Ministry's staff 500. Thousands of agricultural engineers, thousands of vets are currently waiting to be appointed or are under contract at the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism under TAR-GEL. Consider a professional group: four years of elbow decaying, mastering, undergraduate, plus one, plus two more years of education, and after graduating from school, it comes to a point where I can do whatever work I can do. See, in the market, thousands of agricultural faculty graduates work outside of their profession. There's a tradesman, there's a marketer, there's a waitress, there's a teacher, there's a teaching job, or there's a lucky agricultural engineer who's found a job in different areas of the government, in different areas. We're in serious trouble. Of course, this motion from the National Movement Party is a reasonable motion. Indeed, in Turkey, this professional group is having significant problems in society. So let's figure out these problems, let's solve these problems, let's figure out how we're going to solve these problems together. Mahirism isn't about starting colleges, it's not about opening schools. You're going to open a university, you're going to train a large percentage of society, you're going to make them occupational, but you're going to create jobs for them, you're going to create jobs for them. Otherwise, the colleges you've opened, the colleges, they're worth nothing. I don't think there's any point in going up here and saying, "Well, we've opened so many universities, we've fixed the physical conditions of universities, schools." In particular, the industry mentioned, or rather, the sector where the mentioned trade groups serve is one of the most important sectors in Turkey. The percentage of employees in employment is 26.7 per cent, 27 out of every 100 people working in the agriculture sector. One out of three of our citizens is living directly or indirectly from the agricultural sector. Turkey has an important agricultural potential; it has the world, it has Europe. We're talking about 24 million hectares of agriculture; we're talking about the production of 45 million tonnes of vegetables, fruit; more than 50 million of our cattle, our number of small animals, our production of 14 million tons of milk, our production of meat, our production of grain, our industrial plants -- that's a remarkable potential. Seven regions of Turkey, four corners, and all areas are agricultural-appropriate. It's a shame, isn't it? We're wasting such great potential, thousands of engineers, vets. These children are educated, educated, more modern, more modern, and in order to make a more appropriate production of science, they need to contribute to this area, and unfortunately, your wrong policies are either causing these people to wander the streets hungry, miserable, unemployed, or to do things that are unrelated to their merits. I would like to state that we will vote in favor of this motion. My dear friends, this is the case; the problems of society continue in this sector -- economics, employment, education -- but to me, the biggest problem of Turkey is the problems we've had in the last three or five days. Turkey is having an important social crisis. It's not the environmental problem, it's not the Travel Park problem, it's the ideological issue; the Prime Minister said that. But where's the ideology in that? Are the young children protesting the Travel Park, or are the people in Mersin, Ankara, İstanbul, who are on the streets, who are apolitical, who are not involved in politics, but who are political because of you? You're the Ideological ones, your ten-year practices. Look, go back. Let's look at the education system. The religious youth - spiteful youth. These are ideological rhetorics, these are ideological jargons. See, Mr. Prime Minister is in pursuit of a rematch: The March 31st case; enter the Google 31st March case, which is symbolic. This conflict has continued since the beginning of the 1900s. Those conflicts between Admission and Terakki and the Freedom and the Consistency are still a liberal group, which is the same ideological debate that continues today in Turkey. Why the insistence? What's the artillery barracks insist on, Mr. Prime Minister? An ideological insistence. But, look, society doesn't have this kind of ideological obsession with the society of Turkey. I thought I'd take the stand on Saturday night and tell the citizens a few words. Don't get me wrong, provocation isn't in our nature; it's in our power to provoke people, to shout, to call, to look at them with spite, to look down on them, to look down on them, to look down on them, believe me. Look, you've even politicized my kids. I have two kids, one in high school, one in college. I'd like them to be interested in politics, not to worry about Turkey's social problems, but as a parent, as a parent, as a parent, God bless you, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has succeeded, and now my children have become political. (HPP) They both said, "One is in Istanbul, one is in Mersin. Enough is enough." Father, what is he saying, what does the Prime Minister say? I said, "Son, we'll round up a million people." What does that mean? Is Turkey taking him to war? Is Turkey leading to chaos? Is Turkey taking him to a brotherly quarrel? A university student who says so.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0093par0645	You've made a mess, you've made a mess!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0092par0646	Shut up and listen! Now, look, you were agitating the Syrian events, giving advice. You guys keep your heads to yourselves first. You said, "O Assad, you have persecuted your people. You have blamed us too. You are an Assad, you are a tyrant, you are a supporter of a leader who has wronged his people." Look, today you want to torture your people. Tens of thousands of wounded people... our young people are dead. Isn't it a shame about these people? Again the streets are full of streets, and again there is a gathering in the Red Sea, and again there is a gathering in the south. Isn't it a shame you brought this country to these points? I thought you were supposed to be complementary, be inclusive. I thought you were supposed to love everybody. I thought you were a servant of 76 million. But you've categorized society as 50 percent of the people who are waiting in their homes -- 50 percent of the people who are in their homes -- you've categorized the people who are from us. The point that has come today, O government, is that you must come to your senses, there is no turning back. People are on the streets. This isn't an organized act. This is our observation, and you know it very well. So, last word, I suggest to Mr. Prime Minister, that he come out before the televisions, make unifying, complementary, peaceful promises.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0094par0650	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. It's Kurskkale MP Ramazan Can against you. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0095par0654	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group proposal the National Party has made. I declare that we will vote against the group proposal. We understand Miraç Kandili. I hope that Mirach Kandili will bless all the worlds of Islam and bring peace, peace, and peace to all mankind because of the Mirach Kandili. I also celebrate World Environment Day. Here, the problems of agricultural faculty graduates have been expressed. I'd like to say in particular that it is no longer a public, public, public, college graduate, hiring, hiring door. Of course, the public sector will buy what the government needs. If you recall, in 2003-2004, the Ministry of Agriculture received contracts under the name of the veterinary physician and agricultural school graduates, in need of agricultural engineers. Again, by State Officers' Law, ministries are employed in public places where the need is needed for civil servant personnel. But that doesn't mean that we've opened universities, the number of students in universities has increased. We want everyone to be in college. There is no guarantee that our students who have finished college will find work at the government gate after they have finished college, and there can be no power in such a promise because every employment taken from a building brings a burden to the state, and the state has experienced serious problems in the past. Therefore, aside from the needs of the public sector, we think our college graduate friends should grow themselves in different areas, improve their employment and skills in private business if they do not find jobs in public. On the other hand, the Republican People's Party orator spoke of democratic action and reaction here. We agree that there are protests, protests, objections, in the nature of democracy, of course, the essentials of democracy. However, one of the main, fundamental elements of democracy, one of the essentials is the choice, the will of the people. Thus, respecting the will of the people is an essential part of democracy to absorb the elected MPs in parliament, which is the purpose of the people's will. I think it's a good idea to find a way to go along these two balances. In addition, the request to open a parliamentary investigation with the group's proposal is a favourable request to extend the agenda. The agenda is clear; a law-enforcement bill involving universities is ahead of us, raised last week, and distance has been extended. We plan to finish it today. Therefore, since the group proposal is a matufus to extend the agenda, we will vote against the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0096par0663	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0097par0664	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0096par0665	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. Mr. Yilmaz, I assume you have a very short statement to make. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0098par0668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, while imported GMO-based products terrorize the markets, TBs, brusella-based animals are out of control, production of food under the stairs threatens our future generations. Our food and agriculture engineers are also unfortunately idle. Farmers, producers, feeders are miserable; their tractor is foreclosed, their field is mortgaged. I'm afraid the input costs have bent our farmer's back, not worth the product. In the field, in the barn, in the greenhouse, the solution to the fire is in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Come on, let's all take care of this fire. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit01spe0099par0671	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0099par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. [[None of the MHP rows, none of the voices]] I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There is enough decision-making, and the nationalist movement group has been rejected. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday/6/2013 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 5/6/2013 by İzmir MP Alaattin Yüksel and 21 MPs, the Parliamentary research proposal (928 rows) given to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate the problems of the insurance agencies and the issues of the insurance people and to find solutions (928 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Wednesday's 5/6/2013 jointly and held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the proposal, İzmir MP Alaattin Yüksel. Here you go, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0022	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion on our research proposal to investigate the problems of insurance agencies and insurance agencies and to find solutions. I salute all of you. I congratulate all employees in the field of insurance, and I also congratulate the Miraç Kandili (Kandili) of the entire Islamic world. By the way, I sincerely congratulate food blogs on the fact that they're taking candle bagels to the Travel Park resistance tonight because of Miraç Kandili. Dear friends, 17,000 insurance agencies operate in Turkey. In the insurance sector, 66.14% of the total capital is owned by foreigners, 53.25 per cent of the insurance premium. Insurance agencies have very important problems these days. Insurance agencies' commissions are reduced to almost zero on mandatory insurance, especially traffic insurance. Meanwhile, the premium increases in mandatory insurance are around 300-500 per cent. On the other hand, banks, banks that do almost everything, banks that have a job up to selling gold, are especially creating a serious unfair competition in insurance. Last month, we said that the bills, under the names of the bank's misdemeanor operating fees, credit card commissions, were more important than the interest revenues of banks. We said it was 68.7 percent -- service revenues, non-interest revenues -- if we put in the commission and insurance from foreign and foreign loans, it's up to 88.5%. Dear friends, insurance agencies have very important problems, but Turkey has much more important problems. Insurance agencies are the brightest, most conscious part of this country. Four years ago, an investigation was conducted in the Izmir Chamber of Commerce. There were many questions in that study, but one of the questions was, are you satisfied with the government's practices, do you support the government, or do you approve of them? 90 percent, on the contrary, had answered this question with severe criticism. So I'm hoping that they'll tolerate me, and then I'd like to apologize to them for bringing their problems back to the agenda of the House, and I'd like to make a statement on the agenda. Dear friends, today is also the 50th anniversary of the death of the great Turkish poet Nazim Hikmet, our poet, who expressed all kinds of human emotions in the world. The famous poem of Nazim Hikmet is in the mouth of Turkey and all the resistance in this movement in the world, and they all hum it: living, like a tree, like one and free and like a forest. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, you know, on May 27th, at the Travel Park in Istanbul, there were about 50 people who were very well trained, very well trained, very well trained to resist the decision to replace the Travel Park, in order to prevent a shopping mall from being built there, but they faced a great amount of violence, with disproportionate force. They had nothing to do with this disproportionate power, they used their disproportionate intelligence, and they organized the whole of Turkey through social media, and from that movement, a movement around the world from the Resistance to the Travel Park. From Adana to Ankara, from İstanbul to İzmire, from Diyarbakır to Urbana all around Turkey, a movement from New York to Vienna began. Dear friends, on Saturday, on the first day in İzmir, we all joined in supporting this action with hundreds of thousands of people in the protest to support it. There wasn't a single cop, and there wasn't a single incident. As in the celebration of Republic Day, hundreds of thousands of people did not create a single event, as they did at the May 19th celebration that you did not celebrate. But, dear friends, on Saturday evening and at night, some groups continued to act.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0101par0032	Those who commit violence...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0033	We don't approve of violence, we don't approve of violence at all.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0102par0034	Condemned, then.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0035	We have already condemned the burning of political party buildings by calling the mayor. We don't approve of any kind of violence. But you can't just throw sticks at kids over there with an excuse, okay? You can't. We asked the Home Secretary here yesterday, behind the riot squad, with the stick... did you see that picture? Look at these pictures. It's on the Internet today, it's everywhere. We asked here, "Who are the people who walk behind the riot force with wood and nails? I asked the police commissioner about it, but İzmir said they couldn't be police, they were the people first. What do you mean, how can there be a people and such a people? When I said, "How can the people get involved?" he could put it in reverse and become a cop. He finally admitted he was a cop, and he explained it yesterday. On our warning, I withdraw them. He said, "But in the middle of the night they hunted the children in the streets, and cut their heads open, and raided the apartments. Dear friends, those who told us that our fellow businessmen who lived there in İzmir said that when they watched from above at night, Murat came in 124 cars, came into that area on old busses, even the families who passed through the back streets of Alsancak, asking where they had come from, asking where they had gone, chasing normal families. Once again, I warn you, the Home Secretary must dismiss the Chief Constable immediately. This happened within the knowledge of the Chief Constable himself. Today the Police Commissioner explains that they are police, and the Governor asks himself, "Would Eli be a police officer with a stick?" Therefore, he must be relieved of duty immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0103par0039	Who burned down the county buildings?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0040	You shut up in there, you shut up in there. Don't encourage things, don't encourage things. You're an Izmir MP, you protect the Izmirli's rights. Look, guys, last night, your smart guys came in here trying to get in touch with us. Last night, another incident in İzmir, 38...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0103par0042	Your...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0043	Your smart guys. You have no right to speak, you have no right. I'm talking here...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0104par0047	Mr. President, would you invite me to use a clean language? Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0105par0048	Watch your mouth, watch your mouth!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0049	You're rude, yes!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0105par0050	You're naughty!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0051	You spoke to our president two days ago at the Council of Counsellors. Don't beat around the bush.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0106par0052	Mr. President, would you invite me to use a clean language?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0105par0053	It's obvious who's dirty.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0054	Look, last night... last night...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0107par0055	Well, you, at the President General's... mind your own business!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0108par0056	Please don't talk to each other, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0057	I answer with words, I answer with words. Last night, 38 homes were raided by police in İzmir. You know why they printed it? Why did they print it? Twitter users, Facebook users, on the charge of stirring up the so-called public...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0109par0059	Agitators like you...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0060	Look, first the court of justice rejected it, and then they made a decision from the original criminal court.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0109par0061	You guys talk like that...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0062	Look, here, in this charge, when you read about the prosecutor's charge, he describes the Prime Minister, who discriminates, divides. In fact, they should go and judge the Prime Minister. They took kids from their homes in the middle of the night who didn't even have a Twitter account, didn't even have a Facebook account. There are now 29 prisoners in 38 homes in custody and the tweets they've sent are here: let's meet at Gündoğdu. They say, "Let's meet at 1900 p.m.," they tell us that their friends have been injured. There's no provocation whatsoever. If there's provocation, if there's provocation, it's the Prime Minister himself.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0109par0063	The verdict will be made.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0064	Yesterday, Bulent Arinc apologized, but in the meantime, he also said: "We can shut down the Internet if we want to." 80 percent of the stock market is in foreigners, 66 percent of the insurance, the banks, the industry from the food industry, everything... the Internet... a businessman called our friend, who's shocked, how does a Deputy Prime Minister say that? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's see him do it. Let's see if he can do it. Turkey goes down, you guys, you don't know. Still the same insistence...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0110par0067	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0100par0068	And you're the one who did this to the Prime Minister, you, you. Your...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0111par0070	Yeah, we're aware of that.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0112par0071	None of your business! Mind your own business!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0111par0072	Mind your own business.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0113par0073	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0114par0074	Especially the members of the group, you've made the Prime Minister this way. Yes, are you satisfied? It's what made the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0115par0075	With political marauders...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0114par0076	You're the marauder.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0116par0077	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0114par0078	The marauders are the ones who say that, and they're the ones who say that in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0117par0079	Oh, Mr. President, he's still talking, please shut up.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0116par0080	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0114par0081	If you keep talking about it, I'll keep answering you from here.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0117par0082	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0116par0083	Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0117par0084	You can't invade the podium, get down!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0118par0085	You won't succeed, you won't succeed, you won't succeed!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0119par0086	We're gonna make it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0120par0087	What are you gonna accomplish?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0121par0088	Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0119par0089	You're leading Turkey to war. You're talking about a million criminals instead of trying to calm things down.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0121par0091	Mr. Yüksel, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0121par0094	Here you go, Mr. Şengül.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0095	Talker's rude...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0121par0096	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0100	First of all, the speaker has shown himself who's rude, and I don't want to answer him because he can't fit in our style.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0123par0101	We know your style.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0102	Second, two of our district buildings burned down in İzmir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0124par0103	Did you or did you not tell our president? Tell me if you said it or not. If you say so, you're rude!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0104	Our county building is on fire... 1,500-2. After a thousand people burned down the building with their Molotov cocktails, they cross the street with applause, followed by a group of beer bottles, stirring them up and clapping for them. Dear friends, when we looked into these burners, it was discovered in the background that the crowd gathered there were subcontractors working in the municipality, all of them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0125par0106	This slander... this slander...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0107	If there's a provocateur, the provocateur is CHP.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0126par0108	If you can't prove it...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0109	In the process, we've always been told...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0126par0110	Today, the Miraç Kandili...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0111	You don't understand 50 percent of us.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0127par0112	Enlighten, you'll get hit, you'll get hit, tell the truth, you'll get hit!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0122par0113	Yeah, we always tried to understand you when we weren't in power. We've come to power, we've tried to understand you again. We, 50%, always try to understand 50%. Yeah, don't we have sensitivities? How much did you try to understand us, how much did you care about us? Again, don't understand us, don't try to understand us, though, we'll try to understand again, we'll be well-intentioned again, we won't come to your provocations, we'll wait for this process to end with common sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0128par0117	Thank you, Mr. Şengül.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0129par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0128par0119	Here you go, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0129par0120	He's charged with provocation, and I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0130par0121	He did a little.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0129par0122	He did less. They say, look, they're going on, they call him the provocacator.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0131par0123	But he was telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0132par0124	Congressmans, we can't come to any conclusions like this. He said such things little. He said a lot. We can't say that. Here you go, Mr. Yüksel. Please don't allow any more bullying. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0133par0130	Dear MPs, I immediately condemned the burning of the AKP district building in İzmir Kışyaka, both social media and social media that you consider to be a pain in the ass on that day, as well as the fact that in my television speech today on Aegean TV, you can watch if you want -- especially the attacks on political party district buildings, trades, banks, banks, local, foreign companies -- that we condemned them in the most violent way and that it would actually devastate a beautiful movement, that it would devalue it, that it would actually devalue its purpose. But I'm going to say it again here, but what we're doing here is we're taking the piss, and what I'm saying is, let's use the language of politics well. We have no right to insult your Prime Minister or you or our President. You can criticize it, but you won't insult it, you won't insult it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0134par0131	Yeah, yeah. Bravo!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0133par0132	Dear friends, the reason for these events is that these children, if I had the time, if I had the opportunity to read from here what the captain of the Galatasaray Basketball Team shared on his Facebook page, I would have come out to read it, but there wasn't enough time. Believe me, every time I read it, I shed tears, and because I didn't trust myself a little bit, I couldn't read it here. Try to understand these people, the People of the CHP, the People of BDP, the People of MHP, the People of the AKP, all of them, but they were not there, they were cast into the crown. There was another group there, another youth, try to understand that youth. You put 2,824 of that youth in prison because he wanted a free education. That was his anger. Those boys, Ferhat and Berna, did 19 months in prison, and when they were released 19 months later, the prosecutor was replaced... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They were sentenced to eight and a half years in prison. It's his anger, try to understand them. It's the anger of people who've been under arrest for five years, so try to understand them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0135par0136	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Against you, Van MP Özdal Threeer. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0136par0143	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The problems with insurance, insurance agencies and their employees, the problems with citizens' insurance transactions, are actually issues that need to be exhausted. Banking, insurance, that's actually something the whole Assembly should focus on when it's considered sectoral. You know, there's a lot of national values going on in this House, where there's a lot of nationalism going on, and there's a lot of talk about what's going on about Sakarya, and why do banks profit in this country and banks in all the countries of the world? Why are foreign insurance agencies making millions of dollars in Turkey? But why is it that an employee of the branch office working for minimum wage at an insurance agency is having trouble making a living? This Parliament does not worry. Later, when put on the stand, nationalism, national values, and the borders of the nation of the state of Sakarya, they are spoken of. If there are nationalities, if there are national values, my country's citizen is decomposing, for minimum wage in offices, but the insurance agencies owned by international companies are carrying billions of dollars. Workers, unemployed people, but insurance companies profit, banks profit, and then our economy is one of the largest economies in the world. Banks profit, banks lose customers. There aren't any citizens who don't owe money, just certain political environments, contractors and employers, not employers, who actually take jobs because they don't give jobs, they pay the minimum wage to the people they work for, but they get jobs at someone's behest. All public economics has been privatized, but the financial value of public economics should be turned into a national profit is not considered a national value. There was talk of farm workers' problems. One percent of those losses will be solved if they are to be used to solve the problems of agricultural workers. The problems of agricultural engineers have been mentioned again. While most of the reasons that put citizens on the street in many different ways, health, education and so on are possible, the government's spokesman here, sir, should not turn a environmental problem into a political issue, and the activists are provocateurs, activists, I don't know, outside-majorities, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Remember when the children who threw stones were told: "They are not children." There were those who supported the mentality that said, "They are not children." They're at those kids' place today. I don't know how many times I've been hurt as a congressman, but I don't remember being insulted by the security forces because it's been so long. Now, when a man has a certain reaction, the last place to flee is his home. Since man -- we are not in Kurdish -- our native language is not in Turkish, we cannot express certain things because we are not free to express them in our own language............ [[x]] Now, where will the people of this country go, who will they rebel against, who will they criticize? So should he protest against the Prime Minister of Israel, or the Prime Minister of the United States, or the Prime Minister of Russia, because of the problems in this country? He will protest the Prime Minister of this country, but while the Prime Minister of this country is being protested, instead of going out and looking for other kings, he will call the presidents of this place, call the party officials as government spokesman, or bring the state elders together, and he will find a solution to the problem. There should be a clear criticism of the government's approach here. No, sir, that's all the criticism the opposition party has done....... will express the citizen's response. Be careful, people who go out on the streets in Kurdistan, in the metropolitan area, for any reason, throw their slogans out, but there's no incident anywhere without police intervention. Why was there no incident in Izmir? Because there was no police intervention. If Ankara hadn't interfered, it wouldn't have happened again. Let the people come and throw their slogans in front of the House, and let them go. In England, which had one of the world's largest, most ancient covens, they set up a seat in front of the Assembly so that people would come and shout. Look at most of the developing democratic countries, they're the same. You cannot solve the problems of this country by suppressing the citizens and ignoring the problems of the citizens. If you are a government, you will listen to the criticism of the people. No, we don't have that ability, we don't have that ability. If you say, no one should criticize you, but we have a government, we have a claim, we have problems to solve, we have a program to work with. If you say, you will listen to criticism. You all know that 50 percent of citizens are divided into 50 percent... and that 50 percent is a story. How many citizens go to the elections in this country? 70 per cent of the vote goes to the election, and 30 per cent of the vote goes to the side. You are taking 50 percent of the remaining 70 percent, which is not 50 percent of the citizens. I mean, not what I am, but what I will be. People should be able to say. Won't your economic policies be criticised in a ten-year period of power? He'll be criticized. Why is it that people who receive minimum wage buy ships for their children, and why can't I even buy a toy ship for my child? He'll ask. Why is parks being destroyed in this country, and not asking someone to be assigned to the mall as a commercial area of many areas? He'll ask. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the orator. Our criticism of the CHP on this matter is not to nullify such righteous demands. The issue of democracy in this country is not a one-day issue, it is a problem with history, and it is a crime that you have not opposed the laws of the past -- the Law on Anti-Terrorism, the Law on Police Affairs and so on -- even if you have not supported a number of laws that will make the state a police state. And you will accept the criticism of that. You are only being criticised by the police of this country for being shot in the head by Sherzan Kurt - university student - while the children were killed with gas bombs because they were throwing stones in Kurdistan, while Ceylan Önkol was killed by the bomb of this country's military. At the age of 12, we cried out for help because someone didn't make a sound when they put thirteen bullets in his body. We don't criticize the three trees for burning the forests in Şırnak, in Dersim, in Diyarbakir. Man must make the sacrifice necessary, even for the smallest of nature. Isn't he human, the creature that has done the most harm to nature? A man who can't protect nature can't protect himself. Let's not make politics a subject of the world. I'm telling you, environmental politics is more meaningful than easing political circles. I will enrich my country by creating a shopping centre that cannot do politics, can't protect the environment, can't strengthen the environment, can't protect the environment, and can't protect the environment. The political blind should know very well: In that mall, those who enjoy their children in the world will make your children clean there by giving them minimum wage, and they won't make them partners. Who makes money in malls? Eighteen hours as a security guard there, minimum wage, cleaning worker...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0137par0155	Do you know how much the minimum wage was before the AK PARTY came to power?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0136par0156	...or the political allies of international brands? Think about it. If the irreparability is being tried, the integrity, the democracy, the Kurds, the Turks, the Lazces, the Arabs, the Alevis, not just the basic human criteria, but the basic vital criteria. If the real problems of this country are not discussed rationally on a realistic plane, and the facts are in this country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if it is not placed on the table, if the problems are not really placed on the table, the solution remains unresolved; and when it is left unresolved, there is chaos, violence. May we have a peaceful, nonviolent time.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0138par0161	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0139par0165	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the parliamentary investigation of the issues of insurance in Turkey. I salute your high council. Insurance is one of the most important activities in developed countries. The level of this activity is also considered a sign of economic development in that country. As with many things, we are unfortunately very, very far behind in the developing countries of insurance. 17,000 insurance agencies operate in our country. The troops of these agencies visited our National Action Party Group to present all their problems, and we've made all our preparations for this issue as the National Movement Party Group, and we say, as the Nationalist Movement Party: let's all present these preparations together and present the insurance companies' problems in Turkey, and the laws that will comfort consumers who benefit from it. According to data from the Turkish Insurance Association at the end of 2012, the insurance agencies carried out about 12 billion dollars in premium production. The insurance agencies are known to employ 40,000 staff, technical and assisting staff. When we discuss employees with their families, about 200,000 people across Turkey are available. In addition, insurance agencies pay high taxes, providing serious, solid resources to the public, because it allows the auto control sector within the public financial system to be fully and fully taxed. This matter needs to be well-assessed. Insurance agencies who have won a new status with the Law on Insurance No. 5684 have experienced unilateral agreements that have weakened their activities by some insurance companies, lowering their commissions, failing to provide assurances in the arms of furniture, chemistry, plastic, paper and textile materials and so on, and the failure of guarantees to resolve insurance agencies, and so on. It has yet to reach the desired level of insurance in our country, which is monitoring a rapid development process. The only reason we can't get to the level we're asked for in insurance is because in virtually every part of our country, the insurance consciousness hasn't been established. All these negatives in the insurance industry have also led to the closure of insurance agencies and thus the unemployment of employees in the industry. On the other hand, high insurance premiums cause citizens who are on the side of the insurance policy to become victims. In our country, even the turnout rate for mandatory traffic insurance is very low. Although the rate was mandatory, it remained around 60 per cent due to high prices. Studies show that around 17 million 191,000 vehicles in traffic are uninsured and uninsured. One of the big reasons is that insurance policies and the price are expensive. In our country, the insurance system needs to be improved. Insurance companies' problems must be resolved. In our country, insurance companies should be resolved, while high-priced services offered to citizens should be abandoned, bonuses should be reduced to lower levels. High prices prevent the development of the insurance system in our country. Our whole life's commercial and social lives are always facing various risks, and situations sometimes bring us to this point. In these cases, insurance arises to divide the risk, to share the damage, to reduce the risk in the economy. In addition to this function of insurance, it has functions to soften or prevent socioeconomic crises, to turn the savings it has collected into investments. It is among the functions of the insurance system to provide long-term funding for the economy and to contribute to boosting income levels in each country. In all developed countries, the fund-making function of insurance is largely functional, but in Turkey, it is not possible to say that the insurance system provides significant resources for the economy. One of the main reasons is that insurance transactions have been excluded from the scope of the capital market. In addition to the lack of premium revenues in insurance, the lack of rational use of the funds available, the assessment of short-term investments and the constraint of investment sites are among the other major obstacles. In insurance, recently the technical profitability of companies has also been reduced because the free-recipe application has been transformed into a way of breaking prices in the market by companies, and they are in a difficult situation because of the way companies are competing with each other on the subject of competition. On the other hand, due to a rapid increase in the number of companies in this sector, the share competition of the current market has become heavy and the average efficiency level has declined. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, and fires in Turkey, often occur. As such, the government rightly strives to heal the wounds in every period. In natural disasters, the state must not observe whether it is insured when hugging a citizen and covering his wounds, but must cover the damage of non-insurance citizens. Our country is facing major problems with its insurance system, while the biggest problem is our farmers who can't get agricultural insurance for their products. We must find a solution to that, too. It's important that our farmers get cheaper insurance on their products. Otherwise, natural disasters every year cause great damage to our farmers. In our country, insurance types suffer from dysfunction due to the lack of legislation. First of all, a sound legal structure must be created to solve the problems of insurance. This solid and legal structure will again pass through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this regard, as we develop legal infrastructure, we must draft a new insurance law, considering the needs of the country's conditions and market economy. In the name of our country's development, as the National Movement Party Group, we would like to state from here that we are ready for any task that falls upon us. On this occasion, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0140par0181	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Against Antalya MP Sadik Badak. Here you go, Mr. Badak.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0141par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the proposal by the Republican People's Party to open a parliamentary investigation into the problems of insurance agencies. First of all, I salute your grand delegation. The proposal includes certain issues of insurance agencies, but we see that the whole issue has not been touched. So I'd like to start with a little bit of the Insurance Act. It is said here that Insurance Law 5684 and Agency have become a profession, but there is no mention that until that day, the issue of becoming a profession of insuranceism, which has never been mentioned until the AK PARTI authorities, has been mentioned again in 2007 by the power of the EC PARTI authorities. This law has made the insurance agency legal in Turkey, on the record, a legal profession that, after two years of university training at a four-year license level, will be able to do with a certificate they can take after a two-year internship. Unfortunately, there's no mention of that in the motion. It just didn't happen. In order to solve their professional problems over the course of the week, within the week, within the month, within the year, the Board of Insurance Agencys, a majority of them, was also created. Seven members of this nine-member executive board are selected by their own independent agencies, and they gather here on a monthly agenda, negotiating the issues of their sectors, linking them to the minutes, directly to the relevant authorities and through TOBB. The highest authority, of course, is the High Council. As a matter of fact, proposals from the Executive Board of Insurance Agencys to our Parliament are evaluated on the relevant committees of our Parliament. As a matter of fact, during the change in various laws in April, the Plan and Budget Commission also assessed many issues discussed within the well-being of the government, and a few important issues, in favour of agencies, have been enforced by the Supreme Assembly in order to strengthen the insurance profession. Now, we see a few negative issues expressed by our friends have already been proposed to our Parliament in the bill on consumer rights this week, which has been introduced by the Ministry of Customs and Trade. I'd like to present them to you immediately: The 29th article does not provide insurance on loans without an open request for depositor's written or permanent data depositor. There is an offer on the bank. The collateral from the insurance company he asked for in case the manufacturer wanted to make an insurance policy must be accepted by the lender. One of the problems mentioned in the research motion has become a bill. Again, Article 38 gives a similar ruling on mortgage loans: I will not read the details of the loan without an open request from the manufacturer through a written or permanent data storer. It's a brand-new issue, which will expand the insurance business, create a new portfolio, protect the insurance agencies, and bring serious value to housing sales through the original project. The Treasury Undersecretary is required to take out a building completion insurance policy. Construction companies are all over the country, and insurance guarantees are being issued against the future bankruptcy of the company, which can be born if they start selling houses on the model, without deed or construction. This is a new practice far beyond the issues mentioned in the research proposal. I'd like to thank you on behalf of the insurance agencies for this conviction. I hope the Commission sees fit, and the High Assembly sees fit, and the law is passed. Again, other issues are being discussed at the Insurance Agency Executive Board, where the bidders have not yet reached them or may not have been aware of. Like, what's the problem? We can't say all of them, but in sales made by some bank offices or telephone centers and banks, unfortunately, it's been determined that insurance companies pay more than $5, $7, $10 a month by giving false information. These findings have come to the board of insurance agencies' agenda, and they're being evaluated here. All of these issues are being studied to be introduced to the new insurance agency and insurance policy, which will be published by the Treasury Undersecretary Insurance Directorate. Therefore, setting up a parliamentary research commission on matters that are already being studied or some of which have been converted into a law clause, which will be discussed in this week, this week, this month, in our great Parliament; two months, three months of negotiations on them is to pass on the issues that are already being resolved, to push forward, to avoid. In fact, we've seen the bidders approach the issue as an excuse for insurance agencies, as well as for insurance agencies and insurance companies, and they talk about general politics for eight minutes on the proposal they gave for two minutes, using the abuse of Parliamentary Council. This is a sign that they do not take their offer seriously. In that respect, I would say that the offer is not taken by our side. As I finish my words, I celebrate the Miraç Kandili, of our nation and of the Islamic world. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0142par0196	Thank you, Mr. Badak. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0143par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. I wasn't at the beginning of the session, but as the National Movement Party, I'm celebrating the blessed Miraç Kandili, our MPs and our nation's Miraç Kandili. I wish this blessed night would lead to the gathering of hearts, the rising of peace and brotherhood, the dispersing of the dark clouds that we live in these days, the light of a bright future, the arrogance, the company. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0144par0204	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place. The commission and the government are in place. In the 113th unification dated 30/05/2013, the article referred to as Article 2 was considered 150. Now I'm going to have you read Article 151 of Article 2 of Article 2: EK MADDE 151 - In İstanbul, Yeşilköy was founded by the 2001 Education Culture Health Foundation in İstanbul Esenyurt University, which has a public legal personality, in accordance with the provisions of Higher Education Law No. 2547. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the School of Business and Management, B) From the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, C) From the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, From the Faculty of Health Sciences, d) From PE and Sports College, e) From the School of Applied Sciences, f) Health Services University of applied sciences, g) From vocational high school, From the Institute of Social Sciences, H) From the Institute of Sciences, I) From the Institute of Health Sciences, It happens. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aydın MP Metin Lütfü Baydar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0239	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the Law on Changes in the Law on Higher Education Institutions Number 453. We've proposed the establishment of forty-one thematic universities in thirty provinces, but it hasn't even been discussed on the commission. We believe it is necessary for Turkey, but because we tell the truth, we always face the challenge of power. Dear lawmakers, megalomania or delusions of greatness or delusion of greatness, or vanity, are the attributes of a person to a superior quality that does not match reality. The basic characteristics of narcissistic personality are the sense of superiority, the need to be admired, and the lack of empathy. The union of at least five of the features I will explain in a moment is sufficient for the diagnosis of narcissistic, arrogant, arrogant personality. Narcissistic people believe that they are superior to others. They're always fantasizing about power, success and glamour. They tend to exaggerate their accomplishments and skills all the time. They believe they are superior and special and act accordingly. They are constantly waiting for praise and admiration, unrealistic goals, waiting for others to act according to their own plan, underestimating those who think they are worthless, not caring for others' feelings, they are jealous, they believe others are jealous, they use people for their own interests, they seem hard and insensitive, and they are easily hurt because they are fragile. (x) 453 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 113th Union Charter, dated 30/5/2013. Why did I tell you all this? Today is the blessed Miraç Kandili. First of all, I congratulate you all on your lamps with your families. At night, people have an opportunity to do internal accounting, to examine themselves while they worship. So, as a physician, I share the findings that I see in the environment that may be helpful: Dear lawmakers, Justice and Development Party governments, and especially the Prime Minister's applications, have come to the point where our country is truly pathetic. Unfortunately, our country has returned to its place of fire as a result of the Prime Minister's eagerness and passion to take over every institution during the time when the country has put its peace and prosperity at stake. The fact that he saw democracy as nothing more than a crate, I did, I did. His attitude with his understanding of 4+4+4, as a result of the fascist and dictatorial attitude that he wanted to show on the board of the education system, was unfortunately embarrassing for the Prime Minister and his party. Dear MPs, I'd like to address the Justice and Development Party MPs: Please open your eyes and ears, and do not lead yourself to the abyss by following your master. We all have different political views, and that's natural. We are here to break the laws that will rule this country and oversee the government, or we are not the only ones who will act according to the hand movement of one person. Dear lawmakers, from the moment he comes to power, you are ruled by a man who sees this country as his property and makes it clear in every environment. When it suits you, nationalist, religious rhetoric is something that lawmakers of the Justice Development Party should think about when it suits them, and when it suits them, to have a Prime Minister who boasts that he has taken all nationalist views at his feet. After saying, "What is NATO doing in Libya?," the esteemed MPs are the Co-Chair of the BOP, which led to the lynching of Gaddafi, making the base of NATO's Libyan campaign. Under the roof of the Supreme Assembly, my nation's language is one, and this is the Turkish nation. I said neither one language nor one religion. And I said, "I said one religion," and then I went back and said "One religion." And it was the Prime Minister who said, "One religion." If he has money, he will press down, get out of the army, and he will go into the army without money. He who says, "We will pass the law on Bedell." He is the Prime Minister. It is the Prime Minister who said that the Patriots' command system would be in our country, and then turned around and said that the command centre should be in NATO. It is the same Prime Minister who says, "Yes, it is your nation." Dear MPs, think of a Prime Minister who can call those who demonstrate their democratic rights, think of a prime minister who can call those who drink a glass or two...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0249	Mr. Orator, we're starting college, college.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0250	Imagine a prime minister who would ask questions about his pay puppets sitting in front of him on TV, and he would ask the brokers who didn't give him the ads, and think of a prime minister who was able to demonstrate his inability to threaten his own fans instead of listening to their demands, to ignore the public masses of seven to seventy-seven, who didn't want the prime minister in this idea and who represented all of them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0251	We're starting college, college.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0252	Honorable MPs, a prime minister, a man of his word, don't leave his country, don't go to Algeria when the King of Morocco doesn't see him. If a Prime Minister loves his country, he doesn't try to instill a sense of hatred in his citizens, he doesn't sow hatred in his nation.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0254	Yeah, we're starting college, college.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0255	The Prime Minister manages his country, tries to solve problems, doesn't wage war on the values, founders of this country, doesn't try to be cute in front of a foreign head of state like the elementary school kids.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0257	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0147par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0259	Dear MPs, the only person responsible for the events that have been going on for a week is Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0260	It's a turn-on.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0261	There's nothing wrong with foreign policy.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0263	Don't be a turn-on.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0264	I'm going to bring peace to the country.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0265	Shame on you! Oh, for crying out loud!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0148par0266	What war?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0267	...that the state of the Republic of Turkey is in a secular state, a Prime Minister who has never been able to digest it and has expressed it at every opportunity...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0268	Instigator! Instigator!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0269	... that if religion commands it, there will be no opposition. A Prime Minister who expressed his longing for the Sharia...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0270	Instigator!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0271	...a Prime Minister who's involved in all kinds of human habitats can no longer be a source of charity in this country.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0272	You're a turn-on, a turn-on.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0149par0273	Your group vice president is here, he'll answer in favor.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0145par0274	The prime minister is preparing his end by ignoring the right demands of the people.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0146par0275	Instigator!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0149par0276	Don't beat around the bush, you've got a group vice president here.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0150par0277	Mr. President, how do you know about a Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0151par0278	Please, let's calm down. Listen up.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0279	What does it mean to throw thousands of peppers and orange gasses on people who just walk? Since when has a constitutional right to a meeting and a right to march been suspended?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0153par0280	Be a man first, be a man.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0281	We're a republic, we're a democratic, secular, social law state.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0154par0282	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0283	We're not Tirana, we're not dictatorships at all, but the Prime Minister's understanding is a desire for tyranny and dictatorship.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0155par0285	Tirana, dictatorship is in your past.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0286	Dear lawmakers, as a result of the Prime Minister's rhetoric and the actions of the government, the whistled pot has reached the point of detonation.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0156par0287	You're finished. You're finished.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0157par0288	Look at your past.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0289	It is the responsibility of lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party to consider the demands of the community, to interpret their message correctly.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0156par0290	You'll answer for it in court. You will answer for this before your trial.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0291	It is necessary for our country to get rid of the Prime Minister's oppressive stance, to give up the despotic leadership, to be understood that Parliament is not dependent on the Prime Minister, that you should be involved in this situation.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0156par0292	Chaosist!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0293	It's not too late.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0156par0294	Striker!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0295	I, a brother of yours, am making my sincere warning to make a note of history.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0158par0296	What do you know about history?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0297	Dear MPs, even by Syria, the Turkish people don't deserve such barbarism...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0159par0298	You're waiting for the coups, the coups...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0299	The wishes of the Turkish people cannot be the cause of violence, and if Erdogan is incapable of using non-violent methods, he should abandon his post. Erdoğan rules his country with violence...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0160par0300	You'll pay for this before your own judgment.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0301	It destroys the civilization and achievements of the Turkish people. In order to not deserve the explanations, we must get rid of the Prime Minister immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0160par0302	You'll be the judge of that. People will ask you to answer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0303	A new question is now coming up in international public.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0160par0304	These people are gonna pay for this. These people are gonna pay for this.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0152par0305	I wonder which one will go first, Assad or Tayyip?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0161par0306	Mr. President, they're interfering with the speaker. Mr. President, he can't speak, you see.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0160par0308	What's he talking about?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0162par0309	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0163par0310	I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0162par0312	Thank you, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0164par0313	You're not ashamed, shame on you! Go!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0162par0315	Congressmans, please... please remain calm. Speaking on the stand...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0164par0316	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0162par0317	Wait, why would I interfere?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0165par0319	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0162par0320	Just a minute, Mr. Lawmakers, please remain calm. Please listen to the reviews.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0166par0322	What criticism, he insulted me.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0162par0323	If you're going to answer, your Group Vice President has requested a word, and he'll have a very good answer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0167par0324	Shame on you! I return the same sentences, the same criticism, the same words, the same criticism.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0162par0325	Please... Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. In a word, I say, "Woe be to you!" He spoke out of spite, with a tongue that vomited his hatred. I can't even say Edep, I'm telling you, it's decent! (APPLAUSE) It's a shame to insult the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of this nation, the Prime Minister of this nation...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0169par0331	Shame on you, don't be shy.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0332	What can I tell you, you're going to be a teacher! We're talking about college, we're talking about science, you need to speak the language of science, you need to speak the language of people, you need to speak the language of science.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0170par0333	Look, the decency is here, look, look, look, look at the manners.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0335	These people have shown you that you can't get anywhere with insults.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0171par0336	He'll show you from now on.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0337	If you're looking for a Dictator, open up your past. I told you. If you're looking for a tyrant, look at you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0172par0339	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0340	Look, guys, if there are differences in this country, if there are rejection, assimilation policies in this country, if someone's been replaced, if you're trying to make everyone one type, that's why I'm telling you that you can't be in power after the coups.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0173par0341	You've become dictators; they're coupgers; you're dictators.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0342	Now, I'm telling you, these people are awake. There's no way you'll ever be in power again. You can't trust national will, you're trying to come to power in other provocative ways. I'm sorry... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Nationalism is about serving the nation, nationalism is about the values of the nation, it's about being respectful.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0173par0345	They're coupgers, you're dictators.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0346	As for the wheelwork: look, fellas, look, we haven't said much to the President General until today, but every single speaker of yours is coming here with a mouthful of insults to a prime minister. If you use appropriate statements, you can criticize them, but look, these mistakes of yours...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0174par0347	You can't stand criticism.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0348	You went out and tried to discredit us in Europe with false misinformation to your own socialist group. Even your own group made you cry and cry there. You're devastated. I'm sorry for the position of the main opposition leader of this country, aren't you sad yet? You're a member of a general president who's famous for his engineering.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0175par0349	We feel sorry for the Prime Minister's position.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0350	You won't be able to carry a flag at your rally in Hakkari, so you'll come and do flag literature here.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0176par0351	King Recep Tayyip of Morocco refused.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0352	These people don't buy it. Why couldn't you carry a flag at the Hakkaride rally? You're different in Hakkari, you're different in Edirne, you're different in Ankara, you're different in Kars. You'll talk about it in the evening, you'll talk about it in the morning. I'm sorry, these people know exactly who's what. He knows very well. He knows about you and he knows about us.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0177par0353	Isn't your Prime Minister the co-chair, who's the wheelman?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0354	Your president is the wheelman, and the whole nation knows it. Yes, he's your leader, the wheelmaker at night, other in the morning. You can't carry a flag in Hakkari, you can come here and do flag literature, that's the wheelwork, that's it. If you're saying anything, you'll stand behind him everywhere.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0178par0355	You didn't celebrate national holidays, so what now?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0356	If you're using a statement, you're always gonna be there for that statement, you're gonna be there for it, and you're not supposed to say anything in front of it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0178par0357	You're taking down the TC papers, what else are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0168par0358	But with all due respect, the CHP is in a state of weakness, and all it does is insult. He can't produce politics, he can't do politics, he can't solve any problems for the nation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0179par0362	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0180par0363	You're just trying to attack us with aggressive behavior.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0181par0364	We're between the coupgers and the dictators, what's our sin, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0180par0365	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0182par0366	Mr. Baydar, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0180par0367	I'd like to hear from 63, based on sarcasm. I want a promise because he said, "Edep ya hu!"
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0182par0368	Here you go, Mr. Baydar. Don't let any more taunts get in the way.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0180par0372	You will criticize the president of the Republican People's Party for the conduct of the socialist group, and you will say, "We are sorry." It will not be shameful.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0183par0373	We're upset.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0180par0374	You don't see it because you can't come out, there's a lot of talk about the Prime Minister in all the squares. Go on, take a look around the squares and see them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0184par0376	Who's writing it, who's writing it? It's your papers.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0180par0377	We feel sorry for the Prime Minister, and we feel sorry for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, who is not accepted by the King of Morocco, and we hear the same satire. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey was not accepted by the King of Morocco, and I'm sorry. My Prime Minister can't refuse a king, and I feel sorry for him, my dear friends.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0185par0378	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0186par0379	What kind of a lie is that?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0180par0380	It's not a lie, honey. What about the lie? Now, that's a lie, what you said.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0187par0382	Thank you, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0187par0384	Please come in, Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0385	Sir, he said our Prime Minister couldn't make an appointment with the King of Morocco...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0187par0386	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0388	Look, dear friends, Turkey is going through a historic process, Turkey is getting rid of all its shackles. Turkey has started to solve all the problems in front of this nation with the AK PARTY, and at the moment, what we couldn't talk about yesterday, you can talk very freely here today.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0187par0390	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0391	We did what you couldn't imagine yesterday. The whole problem with Turkey... is that we've taken steps in terms of economics, national education, health-related, democraticization.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0189par0392	Democratization, I didn't hear? I just...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0393	Turkey's reputation outside is clear, and our Prime Minister's reputation outside is clear. Look, in the old days, the prime ministers of the Republic of Turkey, you know, when they were greeted in America -- remember that photo -- were both bent. It hurt us, but look at the pictures now.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0190par0395	The King of Morocco refused, and we feel sorry for him, Ahmet Bey. The King of Morocco refused, refused to meet, and we feel sorry for him.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0396	There's a Prime Minister sitting on his feet, holding his breath when the time comes. I'm sorry, like you, to go here and downsize Turkey like your President-General, not to discredit the Prime Minister of Turkey with false information... (CHP rows) with false misinformation. Dear friends, what suits you... you are the main opposition, an important institution, I care, it's essential in democracy, but if you do it this way, you will surely lose the main opposition.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0191par0398	You're losing.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0399	I'm telling you, it's clear you won't be in power, but you'll also fall from the main opposition. These people will show you that, too.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0192par0400	You'll be the main opposition, don't worry.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0401	Because we can't find you in any of the people's problems. You have no policy, what do you think of terrorism, what's your policy? You said let's meet, you made an appointment, you coerced. So you said, "Let's set up a research commission." You said, "We've made a bold signature under your motion," and we said, "Once in a while, the CHP is doing the right thing, even if it's an accident." You called them intellectuals, you insulted them in various ways. Now, that's the wheelwork, that's the wheelwork, that's the wheelwork. What national issue of Turkey did you put up a firm stand on, Israel, Syria, domestic policy or terrorism? Where the hell have you been, when have you been around these people?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0193par0403	All the time, everywhere.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0404	What have you done, what are your predictions? Look, we've set 2023, we've set 2053, we've set 2071. What do you think of tomorrow? What projects do you have, what predictions, what do you want to do about these important issues of Turkey? What problem do you have a dream to solve, you have a project, you have a mind, you have an opinion, for God's sake?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0193par0405	Didn't you read the program or not?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0406	Skip the program, the schedule... we know about your camaraderie. You've never given anything to this nation. And after that -- after we've gone into multi-party political life -- people have woken up -- they're not going to make your mentality a power anymore.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0194par0408	Your mentality will go along with these streets.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0188par0409	But I'm saying there's a risk that you'll lose the main opposition as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0195par0412	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0413	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0195par0414	Here you are, Mr. Tarhan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please don't allow any more bullying, and please let's end this.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. The King of Morocco didn't accept your Prime Minister. Do you have any idea why he wouldn't take it? Do you have any idea why he wouldn't take it?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0197par0420	He must have asked you!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0421	I mean, you know, it's not appropriate to be in a contest of words, not my style, but in one night, you changed Assad's name into a letter change. When we were friends, when we were in friendly camps, it seemed like the way to put it in enemy camps was to change a letter, so I guess your communications experts told you that.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0198par0422	It's been the same for six months.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0423	In fact, this was the true wheelman, what we experienced, you changed the name of the man overnight. Now, you're saying provocateur, you're destroying it. You're saying that.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0199par0425	You'll pay for this in front of the court.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0426	But, look, why doesn't the King of Morocco accept you? You have to think about it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0199par0427	You'll see what it's like to make a mess.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0428	I think he thought, King of Morocco, that you destroyed the homes and schools of this country, Turkey, and you took out their forests, and you made a mall, and that's why people went out on the streets.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0200par0429	Are you his secretary?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0430	You dragged those women who were trying to protect their stream, their land, women in Tortum, from their lives, into the ground, and you did it last year.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0200par0431	You're writing it?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0432	You banned Twitter, banned green, banned tree in this country, turned your own people against you, threatened the press to hide the sufferings of the people, and silenced them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0201par0434	You're telling stories, fairy tales.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0435	You threw the intellectuals into prisons, and you saw democracy as nothing more than a chest.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0202par0436	You're a provocateur.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0196par0437	It's as if you've reduced democracy to the sound of a whistle giving money. You spent money on science, taxes on scorpions, pepper spray.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0202par0439	Come on, let's go to the trunk. What's going on?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0203par0440	Is it appropriate to insult a woman?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0204par0441	Please...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0205par0442	You know what I mean?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0206par0443	I get it. Do you understand?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0205par0444	Again, these people are sick of you, tired of arrogance, tired of fascism.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0206par0445	You look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0207par0447	Please, calm down, don't shout.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0205par0448	That's why people are out on the street today. Look, it doesn't work, but yes. You know what they were mumbling to themselves today? What are they saying about the support they gave you in the Constitution and the way you made the country look like this?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0208par0450	What are they saying?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0209par0451	These people are going to pay.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0205par0452	Shut up and listen. You know what they say? It's not enough, but God damn me. They say it's because they support you. Therefore, the largest provocateur in this country is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the symbol of resistance in this country and the architect of resistance.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0210par0455	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0211par0456	These people will answer for it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0212par0457	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0210par0458	Now, Congressmans, we have to put an end to this. It's mutual...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0213par0459	Mr. President, enough...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0210par0460	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0214par0461	Mr. President, this is a blessed day. Today is a blessed day, Mirac...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0210par0462	One moment... sit down, Congressmans... please sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0214par0463	I mean, there's no need to be so aggressive.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0210par0464	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0215par0465	Mr. President, I'm going to make a correction.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0210par0466	Mr. Aydın, you've answered enough.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0216par0467	To the dictators and the coupgers...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0215par0468	No, I'm just gonna make a correction.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0217par0469	What's with the attack?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0215par0470	No hard feelings, I'm just gonna fix it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0218par0471	Look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look,
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0217par0472	These attacks that are not appropriate for today's moon...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0218par0473	Don't be coy...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0219par0474	Mr. President, he attacked me twice, I spoke to him once.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0218par0475	Please do not interfere. Please... you've given me enough mutual answers. Let's get on with it, please, and please, let's just drop it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0220par0476	I'm just gonna make a correction, not a tease.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0221par0477	I don't need to.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0222par0478	Mr. President, you have a very good warning. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0223par0479	Please... [[Noises]] Look, Mr. Aydın, don't make any new arguments. I'll give you a minute to sort this out. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0224par0484	Oh, my God! It's like a boat fight.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0225par0485	He doesn't have a task of tidying up, Mr. President. It's your job to clean up.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0226par0488	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to say that we didn't start your language this way, we didn't want that at all. So far, we haven't said anything about your president here, but every speaker who's spoken about our Prime Minister has spoken false, false, irrelevant sentences, insulting sentences. Look, for once, what you're talking about will be true. The King of Morocco has been receiving treatment in France for six months. You'll know that, you'll come and talk like that. What happened to you? How will Morocco meet with someone who has been treated in France for six months?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0227par0491	Answer me!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0226par0492	That's what I expected. I told you, in case you could fix it, maybe you could fix it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0228par0493	They won't understand.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0229par0494	Two months ago, we were in Morocco, and the king of Morocco was there.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0230par0495	Why didn't the Iranian President make an appointment?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0231par0496	Again, you have banned the green. It says.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0230par0497	Neither did the Iranian President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0231par0498	Look, in Istanbul alone, the green area is 30 million square meters; we have raised it to 49, 461,000 square meters; Istanbul is the only one. We planted 1,185,000 trees and increased the green rate by 64 percent. We increased Istanbul's green field rate by 64 percent in eight years. We planted more than 2 billion trees in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0232par0500	Thank you, Mr. Aydın, the matter has become clear.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0231par0501	You know how to make gallows out of trees.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0233par0503	Now, Mr. Group Vice President says that the King of Morocco is being treated. Why do they waste the state's money if he's being treated? I mean, is there a prime minister like that without a schedule? Why are they leaving?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0232par0505	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. [[Continue]] İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Torlak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0234par0514	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on behalf of the Law Order of Higher Education Institutions. I hereby salute your high council. I wish for the blessing of Esenyurt University, which was founded in İstanbul, and blessed Mirac Kandil, and blessed be the blessing of our country, our nation, and the patience of God. Dear lawmakers, when we talk about education, we also know that we're talking about the continuation of generations and culture. Education is the way a seedling is placed in the proper soil, where a man cub is born with its pure biological presence is placed in a culture. Education is the process of man's maturity. The emergence of human achievements in a certain social context connects the human to the culture defined by its achievements. The circumstances of his ability to create philosophy, art, and science point to this bond. To provide and offer education is one of the most important tasks in the state. You shouldn't see it as limited to just opening schools and installing them. What's important is that through education, we can bring culture from generation to generation. Education is the standard that allows teaching to be possible. The state has a responsibility to teach against anyone it can include in the community through education. Education is about molding people with culture. Language retains experience savings for a long time in comparison to human memory. The basis of education is culture, and the language that carries culture. In this regard, education is important in Turkish. Unfortunately, in most minds, especially political parties, education policies have been the conditions for teaching from the expression. It has to be stopped. We must remember that the solution to Turkey's most important problems will be to reconsider the concept of education. Of course, teaching is one of the main topics of education, and its fulfillment depends on the existence of material circumstances. Of course, the material conditions of the service the state must offer to all its citizens are important, but its contents are as important. A ministry called National Education has so far insisted that it does not understand the systematic transfer of information that is considered a scientific priority in the concept of education that the age requires. Of course, education is taught, but it is the content of education and teaching that is discussed here. Education is a value transfer job, first and especially. Education is discipline. The government has two things in common, one of which is education, and the other is punishment. The government's priority assignment is to provide the environment where everyone should be educated and given this education. Members of lawmakers have become used by all those who are equipped with the knowledge and skills required by the knowledge society, have the ability to have international competitiveness, develop advanced human power, and use the Internet to construct all education, teaching institutions and libraries from kindergarten to university, and make children and young people speak the Internet, and anyone who tries to make promises on education in today's Turkish education. However, the state doesn't invest in generations just to make them aware. What's really happening here is whether or not you really want to train them. The government must give education to everyone and the same way, providing them with the resources provided by certain schools. Dear lawmakers, considering the real needs of our country, we must resolve the accumulation at the university gate. One of the most important and practical solutions is to direct it to vocational and technical education. However, efforts to do so do not always result in the desired outcome. One of the most important factors is the psychological and ideological approach. In society, some professions are superior to others, while professions have no advantage over one another. In order to sustain our lives, we need a physician, an engineer, a baker, and a farmer as well. As one of the solutions to this problem in our country, the roles of professions in providing social status should not be exaggerated, at least in the hands of the state. In order to enable professions to be guided, not by psychological conditioning but by ability, each profession has to be equal in terms of being a profession, and those whose condition is appropriate should be directed in the first and middle schools with the help of this psychological support. Members of parliament, since it was established on November 6, 1981 and was founded on the basis of a different debate based on the political climate of the period, the SEC has yet to change its powers and the mentality it represents. It is an indication of how far we have come in the rhetoric of the democratic autonomous university, where it can have the properties of being an institution built to contain universities in the conditions of impact, even after a quarter of a century. Although some changes have been made in the law, the spirit of the law has never been changed. Political interference in universities has not been prevented. According to this, the university is not allowed to issue a statement, even if it is the problem of the university. We go through this every day. They say they value university youth, but they're doing everything they can to keep youth out of politics. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on top of that, we're seeing staffing, first of all. In its political past, the current government expressed opposition and hostility to the CEC at every turn, and now moves are being made to make it a backyard. The Justice and Development Party is trying to shift order over the military, the judiciary and the university. Just yesterday, a total of 389 professors from Turkey's various universities signed a joint statement and made their assessments of the DSK, which became the rear garden of power. These findings that our scientists have provided reveal the veracity of the situation. Practices aimed at suppressing science and free thinking have been increasingly concentrated in recent years. The lack of job assurance, a precondition for academic freedom, also paves the way for liquidating trends and practices. Scholars who are employed at universities without job guarantees are suspended from the university administrations because of their criticism and free-mindedness, their appointments are not renewed, and they are allowed to be expelled from the university. In this sense, university administrations can also force researchers to leave the university in various ways, as they can not do the assignments of researchers employed by annual appointments. In addition to researchers, other professors, lecturers, professors, and assistant professors, who are also employed by temporary appointments, are constantly concerned that their appointment will not be renewed. These educators are under systemic and constant pressure. The Justice and Development Party, which seeks one color by interfering in every aspect of life, is acting on the same logic in our central universities of science. The damage this mindset has done to our universities is increasing day by day, with no tolerance for different ideas, different ideas. Therefore, it is important for our universities to have young people who have developed personality, healthy thinking, young minds, who have not been put in front of each of their researchers, researchers, and staff, in line with the basic purpose of education. It is the most important task and historical responsibility of the university administration to raise self-taught employees and choose the most dynamic and creative of them all. Otherwise, we must remember how to answer to history tomorrow. It won't be good for us if we can't answer for tomorrow as soon as we can't account for yesterday. So I don't think we should judge our free-thinking, successful, forward-thinking professors because of their different world view, not other people. I hereby wish the bill of law to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0235par0531	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0236par0533	Mr. President, AKP Deputy Director of the Group has just issued a misleading statement to the Parliamentary General Assembly regarding the process of the King of Morocco. We need to correct this information by showing evidence, and on behalf of our group, I'd like you to make a promise to Mr. Osman Kurkurk about it, to make it right.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0237par0534	That's not something to do here, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0235par0535	Okay, here you go, Mr. Ranger, fix it. Here you are, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0238par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the Moroccan News Agency has a statement dated June 4th, and I read briefly: "The memories of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the head of Turkish government, from his first visit to Morocco, will not be good. King VI. His meeting with Muhammad did not take place. In fact, this visit was limited only to the Prime Minister's meeting with his Islamic brothers as a monologue. Erdoğan cut his visit to Morocco short and returned to Algeria. The picture is seen in a troubling expression that the Turkish Prime Minister received for this reason. He says. It's a French news text. I'd like to bring this to your attention to correct what your member of the group, the vice president, has just said. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0239par0544	This is an insult to our nation. So who's King of Morocco?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0240par0545	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0241par0553	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to the Law on Higher Education Institutions No. 453, to the 2nd Amendment of the Law Bill, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0242par0554	Sir, why do you say that? His external reputation has skyrocketed.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0243par0555	This is the standard answer expected from the AKP: If you are looking for a face-down leader, look at your history at the funeral of Ataturk, whose face fell down on November 10th.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0244par0556	Who does the King of Morocco think he is?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0245par0557	Please be quiet, let's hear the speaker, please!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0246par0558	Members of parliament, the bill envisions changing the name of the University of Gold Koza as, and the establishment of five new foundation universities. Colleges are called by their names. A university is recognised in the national and international arena by its name. Besides, under that name, each university creates its own culture. The names of universities, unfortunately, are not determined by the opinion of scientists, students studying at that university and citizens living in the city of universities, but by the way, as central. This practice in itself is contrary to the autonomy of universities. Today, when we look at university names in our country, we see that these names do not reflect our country's cultural differences, they either have the name of the city, or the names of people with important services to the country, either historically or geographically. In this context, policies that singled out society as a whole in Turkey and accepted it as a Turk have been tried to be carried out, especially through name changes. While the renamed locations are still not returned today, the approach to identifying or changing university names in accordance with political and ideological maneuvers by political authorities on newly established universities continues without change during this government period. The names of universities should also provide parallels to the cultural and social history of the university's area and historical association. The university in a region should also be in harmony with the cultural, ethnic, and social history of that region. In this context, it is important to use cultural, historical, or geographical images that have a great impact on the names of historical figures or on the people of the region, whose positive impact on the life and culture of the people in that region is widely accepted. Because universities also represent their territory in the national and international scientific arena. So we think it's important that the values that matter to that region carry their names. Precious lawmakers are called thematic universities, which focus on education, teaching and research activities in a particular area and are based on specialisation in that field. The thematic university, which is increasingly popular in Turkey, should be addressed with a critical approach in the context of the disintegration of the university's idea and the transformation of universities in the context of neoliberal policies. Universitys are where information is produced through different fields and disciplines, for the benefit of society and nature. Here is a reminder of the basic principles of the university concept of Wilhelm von Humboldt, a founder of modern university. One: The university is an institution where education activities in all sciences are conducted in fullness and with research events. Two: University is a different institution than vocational and technical college. The basic function of the university is to study, study, and research without any profession. The goal is to get people to know and develop themselves. For freedom of teaching and learning and science, science is among the essential principles of the university. Three: the university depends on the public, not the state. The basic duty of the state is to assign professors, pay their salaries, and create a free environment for their work. With the spread of Neoliberal policies, universities have also been transformed; critical information, autonomy, science, democracy, unity with society, partnership and so on have been replaced by concepts of competition, entrepreneurship, standardisation, expertise and so on. Thematic universities that specialize in a particular field are the result of this transformation. The disintegration of thematic university's basic information, the turning of universities into professional institutions that specialize in a particular field, the result of the fact that universities are the best in the business sense, that they are the strongest in production, so they are involved in the market. Dear MPs, the legal basis of universities is in Article 130 of the Constitution. According to this clause, higher education institutions that are subject to state oversight and control can be established by the foundations, provided the profit is not intended for the purpose. The foundation shall be established in what manner of higher education institutions shall be established in Article 2547 under Article 3 of Higher Education Law No. 2547. Universitys founded by foundations are established by law, as are universities founded by the government, and have a public legal personality. It is a fact that interest in higher education has increased in Turkey in recent years. In 2000, the schooling rate at 12.27 per cent was increased to 35.51 per cent in 2012. The amount appears to have risen from 22 per cent to 66.23 per cent. Increased interest has also led to the spread of foundation universities. The proportion of students studying at private higher education institutions around the world was about 18 per cent in 1985, while today's rate has drawn closer to 30 per cent under the influence of neoliberal policies. In parallel, the number of foundation universities is also observed in Turkey. The first university of the foundation established in Turkey is Bilkent University, founded in 1984. The number of foundation universities, 26 in 2006, is now up to 66. The new SEC bill also plans to establish and promote private universities next to the foundation universities. The world experience shows us that the rapid expansion of both foundation universities and private universities brings with it some problems. In recent years, it has led to the loss of public service and the quality of education that should be free in many countries and the lack of quality, professional competence, academic recognition. For example, due to the corruption of higher education, the Constitutional Court in India had to decide to close 100 private universities. The situation is no different at many foundation universities in Turkey. So based on the scientific university criteria, I set up every university. No one should be allowed to say that. In this context, we think that universities are one of the basic needs of society, not of the market, but of science, in an academically unique and autonomous structure free of political pressure. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly again, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0247par0575	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Iğdır MP Sinan Okan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0248par0578	Mr. President, I'd like to make an adjustment to the King of Morocco.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0247par0579	Now, lawmakers, make corrections, of course you're entitled, but now I don't know where that's going with this kind of mutual correction without an official explanation. Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0248par0581	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0249par0582	Sir, they'll have to fix it later.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0248par0583	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0250par0584	I'll give you a say, Mr. Okan, I'll give you a say in five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0251par0586	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I congratulate the lamp of the Turkish-Islam world, and I wish it to be a blessing. On this occasion, I wish for peace to be restored to our country. Of course, starting a university is a big deal. I wish our new colleges to be good, but it's not over with starting colleges. Mr. Secretary, do you ever oversee the universities you founded? For example, when was the last time you did an inspection of Iğdır University? It's not enough to set up a university and appoint a chancellor. Come, see how that chancellor manages that university. Is the university the rector's father's farm, Mr. Secretary? It's not the farm, it shouldn't be. Let me read you a few arguments, Mr. Secretary: Erzurum 1. And in the Supreme Court, they have a case, documents, for example, have you investigated the allegations that the tenders for the purchase of directional plates at Iğdır University have been corrupted? The camera that was installed in the presidential building was corrupted by the tenders, the contract against the wall around the rectory building, so the tender that wasn't mixed with corruption was almost gone. Here, really, I'm curious about something. A name of Iğdır is Çukurova of the East, but to plant flowers in front of Iğdır University, the minister brings land from Van (Iğdır) to Iğdır, and brings land from Van (from Van) to Iğdır. Is there no land in Iğdır? Is there no land in Iğdır? Turkey has the best quality land in Iğdır. And they bring the land of Van, unto Iğdır, which is in Çukurova of the east. Why? The point is to get something out of it, and get something out of it. Many officials have been relieved of their duties because they object. In fact, some of them have been nominated for the ruling party in the past, so let me put it this way. Mr. Secretary, we're dealing with a university where dozens of people, such as the supervisor, the head of the hall, are shown to be there and even stooped to their wages. I wouldn't want to say here that the university in our Iğdır is actually involved in all this work from the council bench, and it's a stain on my Iğdur, but I think it's up to the Minister to clean up this stain. There are people brought to the guesthouse headquarters. The people who were brought to the guesthouse department have ties to the chancellor. There are people who pretend to be on duty when they're not. The guesthouse claims that even though its costs are prohibited from adding electricity, water, and fuel, health care is covered by the budgets of vocational institutes and other units. The president's car was held by parking money in Ankara, and as it was used by the chancellor every time he came to Ankara, indeed, this state's property, this nation's property, has claims dedicated to such people's orders. The president claims that his own child was taken to elementary school in official cars. Mr. Secretary, it is imperative that all of these allegations be investigated. As the people of Iğdır, we say, is this university the University of Iğdır or the Iğdır branch of Van University? Is there a university that provides all its needs, not from the tradesman in Iğdır, but from the surrounding provinces, especially Van? Then take the university away, take the university away from Iğdır. If that's the way it's going to be, if it's not going to contribute to Iğdur's trade, to the people of Iğdur, then we don't want this kind of university. Take him away, then, and set up this university. Mr. Minister, a citizen in Iğdır is saying that if this university comes to Iğdir, it will contribute to Iğdır. At least some of the people in Iğdır will employ some of the people in Iğdır. The people there will not be exiled, it cannot be done, Mr. Secretary. We're asking you, I'll read the rest of these allegations, but I haven't had time to read them by your Ministry and by the NGO -- which I personally verbally stated to the head of the SEC. I don't want anything but justice, right, law. If you're on the side of rights, law, justice, please take care of it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0252par0594	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0253par0596	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0597	Mr. President, while I was just going out...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0252par0598	Okay, come in, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0599	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0255par0601	Mr. President, I have a request to speak, and I have given you my reason.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0252par0602	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0605	Now, dear friends, if we mean anything, let's prove it, let's prove it. Look, I'm expressing something I know, and if you want, you can look at it. Look, King of Morocco, he must have read some of the English Daily News, Mr. Logoglu, read the gold. He says: "It's been twenty days now... "
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0252par0607	It's a bodyguard.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0608	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Ranger. The King of Morocco has already been abroad for twenty days. You read the last welcome part, they wrote it in a way at first, but if you read the sequel under it, it's pretty clear that it's already abroad. Now, the King of Morocco is abroad, this is the first. Secondly, let's say the Prime Minister wasn't on the schedule for that moment, but if he had come back that day -- because the treatment is going on, constantly -- maybe it could have been done and done that day. A second issue: Look, today he is in Algeria. Now, what you're going to say is, why didn't he talk to the President? He wouldn't take it. Look, the Algerian President is seriously ill and there's nothing in the program about the Algerian President. Now, if we're going to make a point, we're going to find out that Turkey...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0256par0614	Then what are you doing with those dates? What are you doing in those countries if the Prime Minister's counterpart isn't there at that time?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0615	Yeah, not with the King. There's the prime minister, the president, the council.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0256par0616	What if my brother, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, is not in charge there?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0257par0617	Read! Read!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0618	Yeah, once, in North Africa...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0256par0619	Shame on you! Look at the situation in which you have reduced the Republic of Turkey. Pity!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0258par0621	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0622	Look, if you're talking about something, get it right. Know that you cannot gather in Tandoğan, where our Prime Minister will meet at the rally in North Africa.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0259par0625	We're not discussing crowds, we're discussing the country's foreign policy.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0254par0626	In North Africa, there is a place for Turkey in the world. You don't like it either, so brag about the size of Turkey. Turkey is not the old Turkey. Turkey is a much stronger country, Turkey is a much more open country, a country with reputation. If the Secretary General of the Islamic Conference can be a Turk, if the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe can be a Turk, if we can become interim members of the Security Council by the vote of 151 countries, be happy, enjoy it. Why are you jealous? Please don't be jealous. Work will be yours.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0260par0628	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0261par0629	Mr. President, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0260par0630	Mr. Threeer, what do you want?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0262par0631	Mr. President, in his last speech, we think we're under suspicion that he's been talking about Van and Vans all the time.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0263par0632	Well, I have relatives, so I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0262par0633	Mr. President, I'm the Van MP. Something to do with Van...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0264par0634	Mr. President, report to the report.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0265par0635	Mr. Threeer, please... You have a right to a say here. Please, take your seats, please take your seats. I'll meet Mr. Korutrk's request. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0266par0639	When you give information, examine its accuracy and give it to me. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'll tell you that I've examined its authenticity.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0265par0640	Now, of course, I'll make that promise to you, but I'd like to ask you to leave it at that. Because there's no way we can get to the bottom of this -- given, not given -- here. You will say: "It has not been given." You say: "It has been given."
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0267par0641	He's abroad...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0265par0642	Out of the country. He says, "Not out of the country." Now, for the last time, I promise. I declare that I will no longer return to this subject. Here you are, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0268par0645	Mr. President... Mr. Kuruturk, if you read the Journal of Liberty...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0265par0647	You've said your piece. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0269par0650	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Director, you're asking me to study and tell you, but you've been calling a friend of yours in the same Parliament for two years by another name, and that's not very handsome. My name is Osman Kurkurk. Now let me tell you something else.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0270par0653	Tell me if you know my name, you've been a congressman for two years.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0269par0654	Your name doesn't matter, I'll say something else.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0270par0655	But you don't know.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0269par0656	But I don't address you, I don't call you the wrong name, I don't call you Seyfollah.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0271par0657	Please, please, let's get to the point, please.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0269par0658	Now look here, my friends, it says that the king of Morocco was expected to come from Paris, France, and he didn't come on purpose. On 4 June, Saadettin Al Osmani said that the King of Morocco himself would welcome the Prime Minister, and the Anadolu Agency announced it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0272par0660	Read all about the Freedom Daily News, read all about it!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0273par0661	Newspaper news, newspapers...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0269par0662	This is from the Moroccan News Agency, not the Anadolu Agency. The visit, which had been scheduled for two days, was cut off early, he says. After cutting it off early, he did not meet with the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Council of Counsellors, he says. The Justice and Development Party, which was its own counterpart and founded, met with no one other than the Justice and Development Party in Morocco -- not yours, and not yours. Other ministers, ministers of other parties, also did not desire to engage in their own affairs and accompany the Prime Minister. That's from the Moroccan News Agency. It's an agency that's been tracking things so fast that it's now transmitting our conversation.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0272par0663	What if you read the whole Freedom Daily News?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0269par0664	He says that the fact that Erdogan was not accepted by the King of Morocco created a polemic in the Turkish Parliament.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0272par0665	Can we get the source?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0274par0666	You must be the source!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0269par0667	My respects to all of you. I have nothing more to say, my friends.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0275par0669	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0276par0670	No, he said himself, he didn't make an appointment even though he was there. He said, "He's not there," and we say, "He's not there."
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0275par0671	Mr. Aydın, the Minister has requested a statement on behalf of the government, since it is the Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0277par0674	My dear President, my esteemed President, the honorable lawmakers, the bottom line is that since the King of Morocco is abroad, his meeting with the King of Morocco before his trip and during his travel planning was not foreseen by Morocco or Turkey because he does not exist in the King's country. That is the official knowledge, that is the true knowledge, that is beyond speculation. With all due respect.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0275par0677	Thank you, sir. [[Continue]] Now on behalf of him, Izmir MP Musa Çam. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0278par0686	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have received a pledge on the 152nd amendment of Bill 453. I salute you all. We're all watching things happen together. Of course, we're deeply upset about it. We ask God's mercy to our brothers who have lost their lives, and we wish the wounded well. Demonstrations continue in different provinces of Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir and Turkey. Of course, it's hard to believe that people are using their most democratic demands and their most democratic rights. But, of course, the Prime Minister's counteroffensives, and his styles, they provoke young people, women, workers, workers. Now, friends, churches are as sacred to Christians, to Catholics, to Protestants, to mosques and Kaba Muslims, the more sacred they are to the Muslims, the more sacred they are to us. That is why we care about the Zodiac Square, for we care about the Travel Park.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0279par0690	You're comparing the mosque to the taxi!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0280par0691	How do you match the meeting place to the Kingdom Hall?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0281par0692	The mosque is a place of worship, division...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0282par0693	If Mr. Prime Minister tells us we're on foot, we're the workers, the workers, the oppressed, the poor, the outcasts, the others, we're always going to keep screaming at our demands and demands in the Zodiac Square, and we're willing to pay whatever the cost, and that's a place above our heads. And here's a former union president, former head of the HAK-İSK. He went out with us for years, chanting slogans with us. He may not own it today, but we're gonna take care of it. For us, it's a sacred place in the Zodiac Square Travel Park, and we'll continue to go there on May 1st, despite all your obstacles. Now, dear friends, the events continue.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0283par0696	And the anthem...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0282par0697	We can read the anthem, no one can scare us, we can read it. But as the actions continue, the Justice Department publishes a general order from İzmir. It says in the dictionary: There are some news on social media about the ongoing action resolution, as part of protests and actions that have recently been developed throughout the country by some trade unions. In this respect, in the event that there are staff involved in these kind of union activities during working hours, the office must be sent to our presidency with a written report on the rights of its superiors. By our presidency, there will be a disciplinary investigation into personnel involved in such actions and causing the process to slow down. At the same time, there will also be a process against the office's superiors, who have not informed our presidency by filing a report on the employees involved in the union action. I'd like to make sure that the necessary precautions and sensitivity are shown in this matter, and I'd like to make sure that you're aware of the facts and the requirements. Now, the regulations are being published, and some threats and blackmail have been taken to prevent workers, workers, workers, and workers from going out into the streets and squares. Employees, workers, officers, public employees are using their most democratic rights, and today they will continue to use them everywhere throughout Turkey. Now, dear friends, today, to support this action by public employees, trade unions, labor and trade organizations, we, me, and some of my friends, were at Kızılay Square.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0284par0705	What are you doing there?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0282par0706	And I came to my room after the event of the Red Sea, and came to Banko the 1st of A Block. I looked at the papers, a newspaper torn up on the floor; on the floor, torn, thrown out, and there's a great silence in the nation. I said, "What about the friends?"
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0284par0707	Where? Which bank?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0282par0708	The 1st bank, the 1st block, the 1st bank. He says that the employees are a member of the AKP Elazığ MP Mr. Zülfü Bey Zülfü Bey... Zülfü Bey... doesn't hear Zülfü Bey. Today, in the bankroom, on Monday, in the Dorm newspaper, this news came out on Sunday, I didn't even read it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0285par0710	You've done your commercial well!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0282par0711	He spends the paper there, he rips it up, he threatens the employees, he says: "Who brought this newspaper here?" Those who bring this newspaper here from now on should know their place. Now, fellas, think of a congressman...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0286par0713	Uh...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0282par0714	...threatening the papers that come to the bank, getting away with it. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, Mr. Congressman, members of the group, our chief of staff, I'm telling you, we weren't there to warn this congressman of ours.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0286par0715	What would happen?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0287par0716	What would happen?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0282par0717	If we were there... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's our motto to kick the crap out of those who don't know what they're doing. We'll let you know if it's going to happen after this.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0288par0721	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0289par0723	Come on, sing a tune.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0724	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0288par0725	Zülfü Demirkle, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0729	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our congressman who just addressed you, have stated that I tore up the newspaper in the bankroom and threatened the employees there.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0291par0730	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0731	I didn't threaten him. I've called my advisor, who's leaving this in my room, aren't you a consultant here?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0291par0732	What do you want from the one in the hallway?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0733	Wait a minute, wait a minute and I'll tell you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0292par0734	Mr. Pine, please!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0735	Give me a break.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0293par0736	You're full of lies and deceit, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0737	We're not going to slander, we're not going to deny it. I came from the room, I don't want a newspaper like this in my room. The headline of the newspaper is: "Erdoğan is a murderer. " I brought it there, I tore it up at the counter, I left it, and I said I never wanted a newspaper like this in my room again. I stand by my word, and I don't want to. Do I make you a newspaper?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0294par0738	You weren't going to threaten them, you weren't going to threaten them, you weren't going to threaten them!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0739	Do I make you a newspaper? I have no right to impose a newspaper on you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0294par0740	It's a separate matter.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0741	Mr. President, I don't take it to a congressman here and force him to give a newspaper.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0295par0742	Please...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0290par0743	No one can force a newspaper on me, make me read it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0295par0746	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Now...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0296par0748	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0295par0749	Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0297par0750	I don't read either. Please don't interfere with our lifestyle.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0295par0751	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0298par0752	Dear speaker, I believe he came to that point because he couldn't make up his speech. The mosque of Muslims equated the poorness of the Salam (Abraham) by talking about the sanctity of the places of worship of various sects of Christianity. Therefore, to be equated with the sanctity of a faith and the sanctity of a temple and the sanctity of the Zodiac, I think it's a false emphasis on the faith of Islam, the sacred values. I asked him to file a report on that angle. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0295par0754	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0299par0755	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0295par0756	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0299par0757	Mr. President, no matter what the name of the paper is, no matter what the worldview, there are workers' sweats in that paper. I condemn this incident, which was applauded by an MP group, the AKP Group, who confessed to tearing up a newspaper here, and then I condemn the MPs.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0300par0759	Who are you to blame? Who are you!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0299par0760	Don't scream, you'll get hernia, you'll be something else, don't shout too much.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0301par0761	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0302par0762	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0301par0763	Now, look, lawmakers, let's not discuss this any further. Our congressman brought it up. Mr. Demirbök did such a thing. He said he could do it, and he criticized it. Let's not take it any further than that, please.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0302par0764	Mr. President, for the record.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0301par0765	You tell me, yeah.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0302par0766	Mr. President, now, especially no one has the right to impose a newspaper on anyone, and no one has the right to threaten anyone's freedom of life. Anyone can read any paper they want.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0303par0767	Mr. Ahmet, you were just clapping. When he said we lost him, I saw you clapping.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0301par0768	Please be quiet, please be quiet, I don't understand.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0303par0769	Mr. Ahmet, you just applauded that friend of yours and applauded with love. Don't push it, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0304par0770	Secondly, I'd like to point out that I find it hard to believe that the mosques, like the Kaabas, should be compared in any other way here, should not be put in politics.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0305par0771	The division square is sacred to us, to the mob and to the workers.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0304par0772	That's a very wrong statement. This shouldn't be politics, it's not right.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0306par0773	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0307par0774	Mr. Ahmet, you can't have the graves.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0306par0780	Now we're going to question-answer. We're ten minutes out.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0308par0782	I said the Kabe, sir, the Kabe with the Chamis.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0309par0783	The more sacred it is, the more sacred it is for us.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0308par0784	The mosques are sacred to all of us.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0785	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0786	Mr. Threeers, enter the system, and I'll give you a say.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0787	...in Article 69, I am to be appreciated and in the same General Assembly...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0788	Mr. Threeer...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0789	...I will not discuss it, and I request that the General Assembly be placed under a sign vote.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0790	Mr. Threeer, please...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0791	You gave me credit, you didn't give me an answer. I want the General Assembly to vote to decide whether or not to give a say.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0792	Mr. Threeer, if you'll just listen to me, I'm telling you, go into the system, I'll give you a say. I don't know what else you want!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0793	Mr. President, I...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0794	I will fulfill your request, enter the system.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0795	Look, everyone gets a say in this House right now when they want a say in it, but we don't.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0796	I give, and I give again, and I say, 'Enter into the system.'
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0797	I no longer ask for the right to speak, but I demand the establishment of the Civil Code. You appreciated me, didn't give me a say. Insist on the General Assembly, I want the General Assembly to vote by sign.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0798	It's not that I didn't give you a say, go into the system. I told you, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0799	Mr. President, I insist that the General Assembly... You didn't give me a say in my previous request to speak.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0800	I don't understand what you're asking. You didn't get picked on.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0801	I'm not asking for another word. I demand as much as the entire House demands.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0802	I demand so. Is that okay with you?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0803	No? Then why the discrimination?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0311par0804	The word didn't come out as teasing, it didn't come out as your name.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0805	Why can't it work?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0312par0806	There is no bullying against the individual, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0807	I'm a Van MP. If you do not read, I will read to you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0313par0808	Sir, every congressman is the deputy of every county. That's not a distinction.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0809	Don't you want me to make fun of you?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0810	Read all the terms of Article 69, and it will be revealed that I am right.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0811	Your request is not to be bullied. You want to talk about bullying as a Van MP because there's talk about Van?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0812	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0813	Is that even possible? Please... you can ask for something to be fixed, you can ask for it because it's a taunt...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0814	As Van MP, I've asked you for a say in the matter of Van.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0815	So I said to you, please, to the system...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0816	You didn't listen to my request.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0817	I listened. Enter the system. I said.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0818	In terms of your segregation, even the discussion of procedure can be raised.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0819	Enter the system. I said.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0820	You didn't say...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0821	I did... I did, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0822	Ten people have spoken since my request.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0823	In the beginning, enter the system, and I'll give you a say.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0824	But, Mr. President, you're even objecting to him. I'm not asking for a say in my position, I'm making a request from the bench.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0825	Now, Mr. Threeer, how will we manage here? You object to everything, everyone's like that...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0310par0826	Everyone gets a say when they get up here, why can't I?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0314par0827	Please... if you watch carefully, you'll see and hear who gets a say in what. I'm going to the QA now. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0315par0830	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to know from Mr. Minister of National Education: how to recruit students to Anadolu and science schools during the next training period has not yet been announced. Parents and students don't know what method to be taken, whether it's a test or a degree. The old system's been removed, but the new one hasn't been announced. Because of this situation, parents and students are really confused. It seems the Minister is confused as well. So, if he doesn't know, let him ask an expert to explain to us what the system will be like, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0316par0833	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0317par0835	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do police schools or private safety institutes in Turkey receive training in use of pepper gas? If so, how many lessons are taught? Have the police personnel using pepper spray been trained? If he's been certified, how many hours of lessons have he been given? If he's trained to use pepper spray, would you mind giving me his papers? Are you planning on resolving the pepper gas training curriculum or is that missing? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0318par0838	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0319par0840	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in Iğdır, unfortunately, not only do you have universities, but other state institutions, which you keep, which you keep. It rained hail before, and your government kept silent. Now the flood has flooded Iğdır. You interfere when Wednesday floods, why do you only look at Iğdur when the flood comes? Dozens of houses have been destroyed in Iğdur, the new airport has been flooded, Mr. Secretary, and unfortunately, your DSI Director in Iğdır is using the government's ladle to use it for the private affairs of the supporters there, and for 15 years, the water channels have been constantly petitioned, but they are not cleared. Who's going to answer for this, Mr. Secretary? A servant of God will answer for this, please, in the name of the people of Iğdır, or else not only will flood Wednesday, but will flood your power.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0318par0842	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0320par0844	Thank you, Mr. President. A few days ago, a columnist, a very well-read columnist, would remind the Minister of Culture that he was Minister of Culture. When he said that, I really believed it, and I didn't think it was true that he did it from the corner. The columnist claimed that he thought he was the Minister of Foreign Affairs and was only interested in this. Today, Mr. Minister of Culture told Parliament that this is the official and certain information, the truth of his visit to Morocco. We watched with regret how appropriate the criticism that Mr. Ahmet Hakan had been given by Mr. Ahmet Hakan. While he was leaving his post, we saw how the Minister of Culture had played a role from another Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0321par0847	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Tüykara...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0322par0849	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I ask you, both as a lady and as the wife of our author, one of the victims of democracy who suffered a similar loss: the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey is under threat, threatened by lawmakers of some parties. I'm telling you, for the past three days, I've been asking you to record death, injury, and various threats on these platforms, and to do the necessary procedures as Speaker of Parliament. ▪ Burned the newspaper that came to his room. Are the accused aware that they left thousands of children on the streets to die, to burn hundreds of buildings? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0323par0853	Thank you, Mr. Incekara. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0324par0855	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, with AKP, the foundation's mentality has changed. What's the foundation? People come together, they spend some of their earnings on a job, they spend it on a job; it used to be, but now it's not, it's being founded to earn something. If you're close to power, you can open a university, start a company, get a job. Now that's order. In the past years, the foundation's contribution was almost zero, what's the picture now? Clearly, the second situation is valid. There are also doubts here that objective measures are valid. A foundation in Antalya, my constituency, has spent years building, building, building, building, but has been unable to obtain visas from the SEC for years. While we were waiting for the University of Antalya, the International University of Antalya was founded. I'd like to ask what's missing from the University of Antalya that he can't get permission? Or which of these recent foundation universities has more opportunities than the University of Antalya? On what grounds has the ECHR been holding this up for years? I'm waiting for an answer on this.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0325par0859	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0326par0861	Thank you, Mr. President. The first question is, how will students be taken to Anadolu and science schools? Now, after we announced that the SBS test was going to last this year, there's been a really, really high public expectation of a clear explanation about this, but we didn't want to make a very binding statement until we concluded our work. We're simply working on the following: Anatolian and science schools, again, will be students with an evaluation, but this assessment will not be based on a single test. Perhaps, if our studies and examinations do not fail us, we predict an assessment that will include the grades that students receive during the year in their regular midterm exams -- the notes they receive from the curriculum, the regular written exams -- that will add to the average. So instead of a single test where children are successful or failed with a number of test skills that have been acquired in the various classrooms, we try to establish a pattern that is weighted by curriculum, which includes their grades from their classes during the year. Now, the most important problem here is, of course, we don't invent it from the ground up, there are studies that have been done before, and the reason why it hasn't been done so far is because every teacher and every school wants their students to be more successful in the written examinations of the classrooms based largely on the curriculum over the years, and so the notes there are not very realistic or very realistic, very fair reviews, and they make their students at a disadvantage in the face of schools that don't fit these criteria. For him, the measure we've been working on is that some of the written tests, based on the curriculum, which should already be done normally during the year, will be done in the form of tests conducted from the centre, planned, central planning, and again evaluated from the centre, with questions from the National Ministry of Education, prepared from the centre, and with a central assessment. Thus, those who have at least this assurance from the written notes the children receive during the year will then be able to attend science schools and entrance students through exams. I may have made it sound a little complicated. What we're saying is, once again, there's going to be another test, but it's not going to be decisive on its own. The history writing, which is already being done on the basis of the syllabus of the students in the year, like the math text -- the statements of our generation -- is planned from the center during the year and evaluated from the center, so we're thinking of taking these notes -- if I'm right -- from hormonized notes and adding them to the average of the final evaluation, but as I said, this requires a very serious central plan. And we're trying to make sure that all teachers and teachers who know each other don't take the same test, not in their own class, but in other classes. I also tried to explain to you why we needed this measure -- as kind as possible -- to make it so.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0327par0867	Mr. Secretary, this is the end of our time.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0328par0868	Give me an extension, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0327par0869	I assume you'll answer in writing, because we don't have much time for other questions.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0329par0870	Yeah, all right. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0327par0872	Mr. Threeer, here's to Van.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0330par0875	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Hatip has spoken, saying that the land has been taken from the Van to the Iğdır. Yes, there are irregularities in Van, in Iğdır, in Kars, in Ağş, in Siirt, in the region, and in many of the tenders of national educational institutions or higher education institutions, which have been made, and many times, we have not said anything about controlling these irregularities, controlling these irregularities, bringing them to justice. We would like to ask the Minister -- especially the hope that the national educational community is truly hopeful of its own, that it can solve problems in national education or educational institutions -- to focus on such problems and to ensure that they are controlled and that it will ensure its success in handling corruption within the institution, preventing irregularities, and that it will also benefit the country. Thank you, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0331par0883	Now, there's a motion on matter, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 453 currently in session is the 2nd Amendment to the Law of the National Institute of Higher Education Institutions. Article 151 of Article 1 of Article 151. We demand and demand that the statement in the joke be changed as............ Free Special Mahmut Tanal Ramadan Kerim Özkan Fatma Nur Serter Gürkut Acar Veli Ağbaba Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0332par0895	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0331par0896	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0333par0899	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, I've said over and over again that democracy has not been the name of a regime that has been voted in the elections in just four years since I became a MP, even though I've been attacked on commissions and on this bench. And what I recently said was that Mr. Abdullah Gul, who you voted for from the founders of the AKP and by your votes, was not just the elections, he confirmed. Dear MPs, you're trying to give Turkey a tune-up. Which writer to read, which theater to go to, which movie to watch, which book to read, how to have children, how to feed our children...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0334par0902	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0333par0903	There's a government and a party that decides who drinks and where they drink, where we rally, how we oppose and what we think. So this understanding, who thinks like himself, who thinks like him, who lives like him, who lives like him, is trying to bring up people like him as a rule in recent times, as a rule, as an understanding. The concept of adjusting society is also being implemented in parliament. Our friends on the commissions are being attacked, threatened. This chair, perhaps, has been attacked four times in the 24th term, more than not in the history of Parliament, and one of the attacks, unfortunately, was made by AKP Group Deputy President. Dear friends, some ruling lawmakers are trying to decide how to speak, what to say, who to criticize, and what tone to speak. We've seen today, Mr. Prime Minister, like a holy being, which is not, every time he's criticized, the MPs here are attacking the bench, attacking the people here.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0335par0906	Speak properly!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0333par0907	Dear friends, the Prime Minister can be criticized, you can be criticized, everyone can be criticized, and if you have anything to say... If you have information to talk to, you can come out, you can answer. You don't fight like that, you don't fight like that, you don't fight like that, you don't fight like that. Now, my dear friends, look, you've taken over many institutions; you've received adverts of prominent rooms; unions have become allies, rooms have become allies; but know this, I tell you here, you will not be able to deliver Republican People's Party MPs; you will not be able to adjust them; we will continue to speak freely, no matter what the cost; know this. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, what have you done in this House, who have you set an example for? He set an example for the police in the Travel Park, the people who attacked him. He set an example for people with sticks and nails in their hands. As a result of the oppressive policies that you've seen recently, the leftist leftist, the CHP, BDP, the MHP -- perhaps you won't like it -- the people who voted for the AKP voted last Friday evening, they went into resistance, revolted, and I claim that among those millions of people who were in the taxi, among them, unfortunately, we had friends who voted for the AKP. What did they say? Dear friends, every color of Turkey was there, every color of Turkey, every Kurdish, Turkish, Alevi, Sunni, every color was there, what did he say? Don't try to make me look like you. Don't swear at my values, whatever you think.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0336par0912	Why did they chase you from the taxi?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0333par0913	He said, "Don't call Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the greatest revolutionary that history has raised, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded this country, who drove the imperialists out of our country, and called his comrade Inönou. He said, "Don't call him two drunkards." [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Dear friends, don't swear at my values. Whenever you think about it, don't try to change my lifestyle. Every time he thinks about it, he says, "Don't swear at the early republic." You're the son of that republic. He said. You, thanks to that republic, are the deputy minister here. He said, "What did you do in the most peaceful act that could be seen, perhaps the most peaceful act I've ever seen?" You're on the gas, you're on the gas, you're on the gas. What did they do? As you were faring, they multiplied, and you were faring, and they went to Salatiah, and you were moved, and they went to Rediay; and you went to İzmir, and Mersin, and Adana, and Thrace.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0336par0916	Thanks to you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0333par0917	Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0337par0919	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0333par0920	I'm telling you to give up that understanding. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0337par0923	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0924	Mr. President, this was the first time this was attacked by the AK PARTY, an attack by the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0337par0925	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0929	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, we're not sure which language to speak with you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0339par0931	Hey, cut the crap, bro!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0932	We're not sure which language to speak.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0339par0933	You're saying the same thing. Isn't there anyone but you?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0934	You come here and do nothing but insult me.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0339par0935	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0340par0936	You always do the insulting!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0937	Once you've heard it, once you've heard it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0339par0938	We're tired of listening! You've been out 10 times all morning.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0939	Yes, this is the stand of the nation, not the defamation stand. We're wide open for criticism, and you'll be critical to the end.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0341par0941	Deputy Director of the Group, we're gonna go out and talk...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0339par0942	Sure, but why don't you guys go out and talk?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0943	You make the harshest criticism, the harshest criticism. We didn't attack, we don't attack, but we will never compromise the insult. We'll speak to you in the language you understand, and you'll know that.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0342par0945	Oh, yeah? We'll talk too!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0338par0946	This is the stand of the nation. For the first time, he was invaded during this period, and he was invaded by the CHP. Our whole nation knew it, saw it, saw you invade here for hours. You should know, dear friends, that there is democracy in this country now, whatever the national will says.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0342par0949	People can't walk around there! Where's democracy?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0343par0950	This is democracy!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0344par0951	You're showing mercy to Chiller, Mr. Ahmet!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0342par0952	He says there's still democracy! How is this a democracy, Ahmet?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0345par0953	Nothing says anything but national will. We didn't take over any of the agencies. What did we do? We've taken the institutions of their monopoly to a free place. So no one will be able to intercede for you in your garden, nor in your front, nor in your rear; nor will we have a garden in the front, nor will we have a garden in the rear.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0346par0954	Is this democracy?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0345par0955	All these institutions are the institutions of our nation, all of which will serve the Turkish nation. Stop doing politics through this republic, stop doing politics through Ataturk, these are our common values.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0347par0957	You too should stop doing politics by means of religion.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0345par0958	We crowned the republic with democracy. We've raised the republic that you've been eviscerating with democracy.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0348par0959	You're draining, you're draining the republic!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0345par0960	If it were Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I assure you, he wouldn't have you at this party, he wouldn't have you at this party. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We're trying so hard to get to the level of complex civilization, you're here to prevent it, to stumble. If you want to see anti-corruption policies, look at your past again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0349par0963	Look at the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0350par0964	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0349par0965	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0350par0966	I'll vote on the motion then, sir. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. What is your request, Mr. Agha?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0351par0974	Mr. Aydın has said the wrong things beyond what I've said, and I want to correct him.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0352par0975	I didn't pick on him. I didn't say anything to him, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0353par0976	What more do you have to say?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0354par0977	How are you going to pick on me?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0355par0978	What more do you have to say?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0356par0979	I didn't say anything, I didn't pick on you!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0357par0980	What more do you have to say?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0358par0981	Congressmans, please do not object to these rights. I'm trying to sense it, and I'm trying to understand what it's saying. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0359par0983	He took my word for it and said things I didn't say, Mr. President, and I want to say them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0360par0984	He's gonna say you didn't tell him.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0358par0985	Here you go, Mr. Agha. Please, don't start any new arguments. All of our MPs know that we're going to talk in private in this House, and we all need to learn to tolerate criticism. Here you go, sir, no insults.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par0991	Dear MPs, of course, it's my duty to criticize the opposition party as MP, the people voted for us. Now, I want to tell you what I've been through on this stand, what I've been through in Congress, if you'll excuse me. When the first 4+4 bill came to the Commission, they attacked over 200 MPs and expelled them from the Commission. Earlier, as Mr. Kamer Young was speaking on this stand -- Mr. Chairman of Parliament here, Mr. Salim Besli here -- perhaps something didn't happen in Congress, a supervisor who came in who thought he was the deputy manager, he pushed Mr. Kamer Young, and landed on his friends here. A congressman I didn't want to mention attacked me on this stand. Again last week, Mr. Ahmet Aydın attacked Mr. Canikli, who sat in your seat while you slept in your warm bed, and attacked the group behind him.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0362par0996	For God's sake! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par0997	Now, another, I'll tell you. Last week, again, one of our deputies, he came here, he cursed the motherfucker.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0363par0998	You swore at the police too!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par0999	You have not been able to reproach any of them, except that they disbelieved.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0364par1000	The People of the CHP know that!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par1001	Now, have you been able to condemn Salim Beslim? You didn't. Have you been able to condemn that certain congressman, you know, the congressman who's been talking to everyone, the congressman who's been attacking everyone? You did not give it, although you blamed it, even though you wanted to. Did you give it to him? You didn't.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0365par1002	How many reprimands have you given him?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par1003	Now, can such a democracy happen? The Prime Minister will not be criticized, AKP policies will not be criticised. Why are we here? Why are we here, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0365par1004	Don't insult me! Criticizing is not insulting.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par1005	Look, Mr. Aydın, this democracy...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0365par1006	Don't insult me! That's not the right to criticize.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par1007	What in God's name are we saying that's insulting?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0366par1008	They're all insults, all of them, from a man to a man!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0367par1009	All of them...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par1010	If you have something to say, Recep Special, come and talk here. This isn't about drafting a bill.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0367par1011	Don't insult me!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par1012	Look, this democracy never happens when you buy a congressman. You can't buy a congressman, Mr. Aydın. Democracy is not about buying a congressman, you know that!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0368par1013	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0361par1014	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0369par1016	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0368par1017	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0370par1018	Ahmet Bey... it's Ahmet Bey's turn!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0369par1024	I submit to your votes Article 151 of Article 2...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0370par1025	It's Ahmet Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0371par1026	What did you vote for, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0370par1027	First in Mr. Ahmet Aydın, Deputy Director of the Group!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0372par1028	Wait a minute... I'll vote on the item, sir. In addition to Article 2 of Article 151, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0373par1032	In fact, if they were to open a bench to you, say to the opposition here, when they're talking, it's true, it's wrong or something.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0374par1033	No, I think we should go as available, if they like what we're talking about, or they'll take it down.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0373par1034	I think it's appropriate!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0375par1035	Now...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0373par1036	The Presidential Court needs to find a solution.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0376par1037	Have the AKP put an observer on it!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0375par1038	If we keep this up, we won't be able to prevent it.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0377par1039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0378par1040	What are you gonna say, you didn't beat him up?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0375par1041	Mr. Nicely done, but please...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0379par1043	Please don't try to kill anyone else!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0380par1044	It's just talk!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0381par1045	You won't come to the Clave drunk!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0382par1048	Mr. President, this is Mr. Agha speaking. They mentioned an attack using my name. To be honest, I wish there hadn't been an argument that day, and it would have been much better if your chief of staff had interfered with your own congressman's statement, his outburst, and my hand hadn't been contaminated. I'd like to point that out. Second: The action I made that day was not an attack or an argument; it was only that I wanted to end the invasion of the throne, which the Civil Charter had given me, which the General Assembly had given me, which I had invited in place of the invitation of Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0383par1050	Of course! What do you mean? The Civil Code guy gives you the right to beat him up? Is there a Civil Code?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0384par1051	There is no such mission.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0382par1052	Therefore, this is the requirement of the Civil Code. It is likely that I have done what is required of the Civil Charter. Anyone who makes the attack a principle and morality must obey the Charter, I want to make it clear. The other thing is...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0385par1054	You're not the Chief of Staff, you're the Chief of Parliament. Mr. Goody, you can't take a man down like that!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0382par1055	Wait a minute... The other thing is, he was just here, he was...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0385par1057	I saw him hit his head there, he fell on the stenographers.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0386par1058	Are you a referee?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0385par1059	Yeah, well, you know, coming in here and hitting his head on the stand...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0387par1060	No, you'll... you'll see the images, you'll see them again. As a matter of fact...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0385par1061	Chief of the riot squad, you don't have a thing.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0387par1062	No, no... just now, there was another conversation where your supervisor was, if he had come, if he had interfered, brother!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0385par1063	Chief of the Riot Squad!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0387par1064	I also want to point out that there was just a conversation here, Mr. Musa Pine, and they gave a speech. They spoke of my name, saying that I was with them on May 1st. We were together.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0385par1065	Did you give TOMA as a means of office to Salim Beslim?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0388par1066	What kind of man are you?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0385par1067	You're gonna teach him? I'll teach you how to be a man!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0389par1068	It's true that we're together on May 1st, but being together in the division, the new saints are not meant to create new dogmas. The fact that we were together on May 1st is one way to bring light to the darkness of 1977. It's to defend the prohibition, two. It's a democratic attitude, three. I have not been there to be a material for the saints, for the births, for the things that others have sought to create concerning the division. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wanted to make that clear. If you're looking for the holy, your moment, the top casino is the first place to celebrate May 1st, and it's sacred.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit02spe0390par1073	Thank you, Mr. Goody. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0390par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 453 from where we left off. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. We will now discuss Article 152 of the article. The EK MADDE 152-Adnana was founded by the Çukurova Education and Culture Foundation under the name of the Legal University, which has a public legal personality, in accordance with the provisions of Higher Education Act 2547 on the foundations of higher education institutions. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, B) From Engineering School, C) From the Faculty of Human Sciences, From the Institute of Social Sciences, d) From the Institute of Sciences, It happens. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0023	The people you call "drunk" built the republic on horseback. You couldn't stand on a horse for 30 seconds sober!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0392par0024	Who said that?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0025	You drink buttermilk! Our leaders didn't bring the word "lie" into the state. Their essence, their words were true. They just didn't do the opposite of what they said, and they didn't break their promises one day. If you had spoken the words, zigzak, strategy partner, counseling, baseball bat, the army has returned from Poland! Every word they said went into the history books, and they wrote the signs on the walls of the drunkards, on the walls of many countries. Chinese children still read their words in textbooks. You drink buttermilk, that's all you talk about with buttermilk! The Muslims have won their only glorious victory in the last centuries with a good head, each one under a bullet. It wasn't the canteen officer, it wasn't the drunkards, it wasn't the sons who escaped from the army, it wasn't the hatred of their lives, it wasn't the vengeance. He said to the families of the Anzak soldiers who fought for him in Çanakkale, that they are our children now. In Australia, they wrote those words on their monuments. You already said you have no respect for your own martyr children. They made one nation out of these lands with their cool heads. They have created one nation of Turk, of Kurd, of Laz, of Tatar, of Abaza, of Bosniak, of Chechen, of Çerkez, of Saryani, of Zaza, of Zaza. At the beginning of my words, my dear President, I wanted to share these with you. I'd like to share with you a phone I just received from Rize. There's a very dangerous initiative in Rize, where two separate groups are in the square of Rize. If the ministers are here, please, let them intervene. I just got off the phone with the police commissioner, and he didn't answer the phone because he was too busy. Please, if there are ministers in charge here, Mr. Secretary, please intervene in the Rize, make a phone call, there may be some very sad results, and from what I know, there is a very grave point. Dear friends, at the beginning of my words, you just had an Assad conversation, and I'd like to share something with you about that. Look, Mr. Prime Minister, at the group meeting dated 28/05/2013, he gave the exact same speech -- I'm sharing with you -- he says: "The dictator Bezar Assad, who is now head of Syria, unfortunately, has exceeded his father's record in order to get past his father's reach?" He went beyond him asking, "Is he above it?" This one is now over 90 thousand, says the Prime Minister. My dear friends, I went online and wondered when his father, Hafiz Assad, died. Hafiz Assad died on June 10, 2000. So Hafiz Assad, the father of Bashar Assad, was a murderer at the time of the family holiday footage. You took a vacation alone with the son of a murderer, and I'd like to express it first, my dear friends. And I'm going to share something else behind that. Why is this happening? I want to share the basis of these events. Look, the other day, I shared with you here in my speech to the House. There's a fact of Turkey that your Istanbul County President has revealed in full disclosure. Istanbul Mayor Aziz Babushçu tells us exactly what he says: "In our ten-year period of power, those who share with us in one way or another will not share with us in the next ten years. Because, over the past decade, there's been a process of liquidation and a definition, freedom, law, and justice of what we've been doing around it. And even though they can't digest us in one way or another, let's say that the liberal factions, one way or another, have somehow become partners in this process, but the next period of construction is not going to be the way they want it to be. So those commoners won't be with us. Those who walked with us yesterday, one way or another, will be divided this time with forces against us tomorrow. Because Turkey and the future that will be built will not be a time and a future that they will accept. For him, our work is very difficult in the coming period. Who says that? The mayor of Istanbul. My dear friends, look, in order for you to understand the extent of the events, you need to be close to the events, you need to see the events. Your prime minister and representatives, your spokesman, are saying that the Republican People's Party organised the events. Go see those actions on the street. Those who have never met in any way before... the Minister of National Education told the press the other day. I want you to see a picture of who's causing those events, what kind of painting Turkey is facing, my dear friends. Look, especially after the events in Ankara, there's... look, what's this? It's an explosion point somewhere, my dear friends, my congressman friends just told me here. Mr. Prime Minister... at the coming point, one of the preconditions for creating a new construction arrangement for the second decade is that if it's an intervention in private life, a new lifestyle is designed, the masses will go out on the street on the charge of independence and freedom, and they'll do their democratic demonstrations, my dear friends. No one will be bothered by any of this. They can do all kinds of shows on the condition that they don't break or spill or harm public property. No one will be bothered about it. But, at the coming point, look at these photos, my dear friends, look at these photos. These have reached our hands. What democracy are we going to talk about in Turkey, where such police violence has occurred? I don't want to disgrace an entire police force; I'd like to believe that this is an isolated incident. Look, just yesterday, my dear friends, a 22-year-old boy... empathize. Every evening, you sit at the table with your children in your family. Put yourself in that family's shoes. Tonight, tomorrow morning, there's a plate missing from that table. Put yourself in that family's shoes. What are we going to tell that father, that mother, dear friends, what are we going to tell her? Look what we have to say. We've lost three lives. The others will come back, they'll get hurt, they'll get better, they'll get hurt, but what are we going to say to three lives, my dear friends? Turkey's painting is such a terrible, terrible painting. Therefore, we do not see the progress in this process as positive. We want the government involved in this process. We'd like the Prime Minister to give up the particularly tense rhetoric, my dear friends. Because we don't think it's going to do anyone any good to go over the fire with gasoline like this. I'd also like to say that the media has also failed in this, and the media, outside the free press, have failed. In the process, a woman... I want to share her. Women have walked ahead of the struggle for freedom and democracy in this country. Both named after Altay; one from the Conqueror Altay; one from Birsen Altay. All of Turkey has seen which is braver and which is more for freedom and democracy. I bow before Birsen Altailı, my dear friends.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0393par0040	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0041	The painting is such a terrible painting. In the meantime, I'd like to share one more thing with you in terms of the press: especially Haberturk, NTV and CNN in Turkish television programs, my dear friends, they publish penguin programs, they publish cooking programs. In particular, I would like to say to Haberturk (e.g., NTV) and to CNN Turk (e.g. CNN) that if you're going to publish a cooking program from now on, they'll make a description of it for me in the coming days. How the Imam fainted, my dear friends, to make his description. I'd like to share it with you. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Other than that, look, I want to share one more thing. Look, my dear friends, you've told us... that you've always been on these platforms, that you can't go to Hakkari!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0394par0045	What did national TV say? Tell me about the open mic!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0046	Isn't that what you said? My dear friends, there is no need to go to Hakkari, a thousand kilometers. Look, I'm waiting for you at the door now, let's go to the Red Moon together. Let five of them come to me, and we shall walk to Kızılay, and we shall walk to Kızılay. Why can't we go, my dear friends? Did I create such a picture of Turkey?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0394par0048	Let the dead come. Didn't the announcer say? Tell me that!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0049	Now, I'll tell you something else. You're saying: "Don't abuse me in any way through Mustafa Kemal Ataturk." I agree, but I want to say one more thing. I speak on behalf of the National Movement Party, and on behalf of my party, why should any of our youth arm come out and tear down a monument? Why doesn't one of our youth arms come out and say it?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0395par0050	We got him to quit!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0051	Why doesn't he say so? Why don't my parents tell me, but your parents always tell me?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0395par0052	We've resigned, what more do you want?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0053	Why don't they say so? Why do your people always say that, my dear friends? We all know what the problem is, the painting. Look, Mr. Prime Minister has a saying, he says: "Does a mother and father who want respect for their values want a daughter to sit on their laps? Is that worth something?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0396par0055	What's wrong with him?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0391par0056	A country that respects its values does not want the Prime Minister to sit on the lap of the American Empire, my dear friends. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0397par0058	Oh, man! Boo!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0398par0059	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0399par0060	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0400par0061	That's what I'm trying to tell you. Look, I'm not insulting you, I'm trying to put up a painting. The pattern is a grave painting. You need to read the street well. You need to read what the painting on the street is. This is a struggle for freedom and democracy beyond a political party, beyond ideology. You need to read this fight well. If you don't see the painting well, you may be late tomorrow. Look, I'm making this very clear. The painting, indeed, is grave for all of us, not just for you, but for our democracy. So be very careful in the coming days. The government has to be careful, it must read this painting well, and the Prime Minister must read it well.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0401par0062	We've heard this before.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0400par0063	As I finish my words, remember this: Ataturk doesn't die in this land, Mustafa Kemal is my dear, invincible friend. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0402par0066	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0403par0067	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0402par0068	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0403par0069	He used a sentence about our speaker president here that my morality and discipline did not allow me to say, and we want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0404par0070	That's less than enough!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0405par0071	It's already registered by the court's decision, due to the destruction of secular, democratic, legal state...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0406par0072	I didn't hear it because of the noise.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0407par0073	I'm telling you, sir, I'm telling you. The speaker described the Prime Minister as sitting on the lap of America. I want to answer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0408par0074	What a shame, what a shame! It doesn't suit you. Why don't you hear it?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0407par0075	Mr. President, I'm speaking.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0409par0076	You're talking, but while you're talking, our congressman is out there talking, and he won't listen to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0407par0078	As I just said, the speaker just said what I said about our president, the president of our group. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0409par0079	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0407par0080	Halide Incekara will speak.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0409par0081	Here you are, Mr. Incekara.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0410par0085	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, we've been watching this place for two or three days. I'm not answering my friend, I'm talking to the General Assembly. We're saying that CHP is organizing something, that CHP can't afford it, people. They're just -- like the others say -- either they're trying to take the road behind the ambulance, like a cab, or they're trying to get a finger out of a plate of honey. He can't afford it. Since the Republican People's Party is Turkey's first party, I don't think İzmir could have organized the burning buildings. In the street, they're not kidding -- they're drunk on drugs, heroin, booze, they're getting drunk on kids, they're putting marijuana in their pockets, they're calling the cops, they're encouraging kids to fall in, they're turning the cops in. Do you think the CHP could have organized this? [[Noises from CHP rows]] Second of all, they like things.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0411par0089	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0410par0090	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0412par0091	No, of course not.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0410par0092	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0412par0093	Not Mr. Tüykara, of course.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0413par0094	Who are you to talk like that?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0410par0095	He also invites us to our friend, Rizze, who invited us to go to Kızılay. Now, I'm having trouble understanding.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0414par0097	Mr. Secretary has made a statement. You're the only one who knows these allegations, and we don't.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0415par0098	Here you go, Mr. Tülkara. Go ahead.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0410par0099	Now, friends, on the street, a threat to the nation, a threat to the will of the nation, is in Congress. I'll take out the three days' notices, and they've told us for ten years, "Don't forget your youth: don't forget Yassiada." They set up a coffee table every night, and they couldn't afford to hang us, and they won't be able to do it anymore.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0416par0101	Who said that?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0410par0102	Look, look, look, look... you can't read the street. We read the street very well. Think of the side of Ataturk, think of the side of this party, think of the side of this nation!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0417par0105	Thank you, Mr. Incekara.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0418par0106	Think from the lap of the U.S.A.!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0410par0107	We're not gonna let those girls sit on your lap. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0417par0109	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0419par0110	Who don't you sit down?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0420par0111	There's really nothing to say against the lady's show, so we don't want to get down to that level, but there's been some bullying on our group, Mr. President, and it needs to be answered.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0417par0112	Here you go, Mr. Horseman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please do not engage in bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0421par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the AKP, who cannot read this painting in Turkey today, is still busy blaming the Republican People's Party; I am laughing at you. I only laugh at you, the streets laugh at you, the whole of Turkey laughs at you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0422par0119	People are laughing at you, too!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0421par0120	Turkey is not enough, the whole world is laughing at you, the whole world is criticizing you, and you still say the People's Party of the Republic can't afford to do that. Dear friends, this power is not the power of the Republican People's Party; you're right about that. This power is the power of the people themselves; that is the power you must fear.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0422par0123	They're there because there's no opposition.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0423par0124	AK PARTY means people!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0424par0125	Put them on the books, put them on the books.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0425par0126	The people who chose you, the people who chose you, said: "I have done wrong, I have done wrong, I am taking back the authority I have given you. You still do not remove that head of yours from the sand, but the authority given to you has been taken back, and the authority given to you has been taken back. It is only ignorance that you do not see it from here.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0426par0128	Please... please calm down.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0425par0129	The Republican People's Party respected the people's rebellion. Our president, who you don't like, comes out and takes our share of the message from the people, and we read the message from the people, and we take our part. He's brave enough to say, and he's young enough to say, but you're a bunch of people who accuse these people of being corrupters, accusing them of being thieves, you're nothing but a bunch of people!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0427par0131	Boo!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0426par0132	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0428par0133	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0426par0134	Mr. Gardendoor, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0428par0135	The speaker used the word "ghurlah" about my group. Besides, there are other insults involved. I want word on behalf of our group to answer.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0429par0136	Unqualified majority!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0426par0137	Mr. Gardendoor, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0428par0138	Recep will speak in private.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0426par0139	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0430par0142	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. We've just witnessed a very unfortunate speech by Mr. Moon Horseman here that the nation has taken back power from you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0431par0144	Oh, what a blow!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0430par0145	...you've always talked about the fact that the situation you're used to coming to power with the coup is probably a manifestation of the Turkey agenda from here on the record. And it's never your place to call this group, the group that represents 50 percent of the nation. The people chose us, and the people chose you. We've been keeping a good eye on the street for recent events, and we're getting his message. But we always said there was an opposition gap in Turkey. I wish there was no room for opposition and the street wouldn't be moving in your place. The street wouldn't have done this if you could have made a quality opposition. This street fills your opposition gap. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, we're just saying let's be sensible. Turkey has been under trial for days, and so do you, and so do we. We have to make this trial fair and square as a political institution. So, as all lawmakers, let's do our part here, in a clean language, in a good manner, to set an example for the nation, so that this street can calm down.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0432par0148	You teach yourself. You're the one who swears.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0430par0149	We received the necessary message. I was wondering if you could pick it up.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0433par0150	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0434par0151	We'll see if you got the message when the Prime Minister arrives tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0430par0152	You don't organize them, but you have some provocative, publicizing messages.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0433par0153	Did you get a message by listening? You got the message, you got it wrong.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0430par0154	Yes, we understand all actions, but look, you're stuck with the word "stealer."
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0435par0155	The marauders will give you the message, Mr. Recep.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0436par0156	Who told you?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0437par0157	Mr. Recep, don't trust Brült Arinc, I said it wrong tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0438par0158	Look, people who throw rocks at cops and go and burn cars are marauders.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0437par0159	Don't trust him, I said it wrong tomorrow, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0438par0160	Other than that, it was certainly not spoken of in terms of those who kept up with them, those who did all these acts. Don't you call the one who threw stones at the police, the one who threw stones, you call the one who threw stones? Don't you call your car collar the one who tried to raid the Prime Minister's building "the thief"? You go in front of them and arrest the police...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0439par0162	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0438par0163	I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0440par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0439par0166	Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0440par0167	I want a say in the speaker's speech, because he calls our group "aggressor."
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0439par0168	Excuse me...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0441par0169	It's a pot thing.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0440par0170	He described our group as violent, and I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0439par0171	Who?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0440par0172	The speaker.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0439par0173	Mr. Special?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0440par0174	Yes, Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with our group, who has called it "aggressive."
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0442par0175	Mr. President, there's some bullying in our group, and we'd like word on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0443par0176	Where is it, sir? Where is it? We couldn't hear what our friend was promised.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0444par0177	Sir, you called the band "Strangler."
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0443par0178	What did we say?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0444par0179	They'll answer for him. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0183	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, look, just now, our speaker accused the Republican People's Party of coupting.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0446par0185	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0186	Look, dear friends, today is the Miraç Kandili, or don't lie today, tell the truth today, tell the truth for God's sake today. Who was the coup against? When was it made? Who's in on this? This has been done very seriously in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0447par0187	Who made May 27th?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0446par0188	Where's Menderes, Menderes?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0189	My dear friends, you've got deputies working for the coup commission, who know exactly what's what. If you don't, read those reports we're working on as respect for our hard work, and it'll do you some good. Don't come here and blame us. Today, especially today, is the Miraç Kandili. People gathered in the street. You want to fight where silence is said, where you invite people to rest. Shame on you, don't do that, set an example. Look, we're fighting here because we don't understand people on the street. They taught us all; they taught politics; they taught universities; they taught security; they taught government; they taught parliament. You'll understand that very well.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0448par0192	You said the tiger from the paper.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0193	Look, if those actions increase... I was there last night at 11:00.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0449par0194	What are you doing there? Instigator!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0450par0195	People going out on the street asking you? Shut up!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0196	If those activists -- college students, kids, everybody -- when they come at us, let's not go home with the police, let's take care of it. Calm down, listen to what we're saying. The opposition always offers you the right path.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0451par0197	Yeah, leave the kids alone. What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0198	Please, follow them. Let's calm these people down and try to get these people out of their homes.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0451par0199	Get off the backs of the children, and get off the backs of the children!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0200	It's not a criticism, Mr. Incekara.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0451par0201	Get off this people's backs, get off...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0445par0202	I'm telling you today, there's no truth in what you just said. If not, tell the truth on this blessed day of the Miraç Kandili.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0451par0204	O Lord...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0452par0205	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. [[Continue]] On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0453par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0454par0215	The lady wasn't teased, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0455par0216	Sir, the lady claims she has the patent of the Miraç Kandili.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0456par0217	Congressmans, we're clear on this. Please, it's nothing.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0454par0219	He's laughing, look, look!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0456par0220	Please... please... Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0457par0222	Can you show us the same generosity?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0456par0223	I'll show you, sir. Please, you're very welcome. Here you are, Halaçoglu. Please... please...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0458par0226	Mr. President, our party has been promised. Please let the AKP Group sit down. Respect the man with the word on the stand. He's got his word, don't disrespect the congressman.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0456par0227	And you know in the General Assembly that when the President invites a congressman to the stand, he will not be interrupted.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0459par0228	I'm talking about the president.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0458par0229	So...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0459par0230	Mr. President, be impartial, be equal.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0460par0231	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0461par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, as I begin my words, I congratulate all of you, all of you, all of the MPs, and all of the Turkish nation and all of the Islamic world, the Miraç Kandili. The esteemed MPs are a 5-year-old university in Adana, a university founded by the Kurkutova Education and Culture Foundation. I wish him well. As I begin my words again, I would like to point out that in order for the opposition to be able to do the opposition's duty, power must first respect democracy and law and the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, our universities are growing like an avalanche. Of course, it is important for our society to show itself as educated, cultured individuals in the first degree. But in the meantime, when colleges are set up at this rate, it's important to bring some problems to light. At the beginning, the university must first be determined whether there are sufficient staff for the faculty, especially the universities of the foundation and other universities, which are primarily important to be audited on. A second problem is that in our universities, especially in our public universities, students' salaries and salaries are very low. Indeed, when a general manager takes over 5,000 liras, a professor who has completed ten years gets a salary of $3,800. Therefore, such matters need to be corrected so that more qualified researchers can be admitted to the university and the level of education will rise. It's a third issue, the RD Act. Now, first of all, think of it, valued lawmakers: Even though our universities are the most elite of the society in terms of education, it is strange that they cannot choose the chancellor themselves. Sir, six presidential candidates are elected, sent to the SEC, three are determined from within, and one is appointed by the President. Now, then, let's not make any choices in Turkey. If university professors can't elect their own chancellor, let's never hold parliamentary elections in the Republic of Turkey. Because in an environment where we can't trust what they choose, then democracy in Turkey will also disappear in the election environment. Fourth thing: you see the situation in medical schools, full-time law, performance... almost no faculty at university hospitals. First of all, this needs to be considered, and the Full - Day Law at universities can be given a specific framework or some new arrangements may be made. On the other hand, when you say "performance," you consider how many people a doctor will take care of, and if you are going to evaluate the performance by considering how well he will examine the patient, then this is really causing great problems in terms of the health of the patients. The other thing is, it's a recruitment issue at our universities. At the moment, university rectors are demanding a staff from the YKK, but not for everyone, but for those who support them. Hence, this tribulation needs to be removed. This one, sir, is in the belief that, I don't know, this one is close to us or not close to us. With such a request, the university is writing to the YOK, and the demand comes out that way. Well, then we'll have to get an arrangement for that, just to be fair. It is important that whoever the assistant professor has received the title of professor, the assistant professor, at least in a certain order, be given these positions. Depending on the merits, the allocation of these staffs is extremely important. Again, we see that our universities have become a hubcap. So I served as vice-priest and deputy minister at the University of Marmara. In fact, there's a lot of favours, whether it's in construction, whether it's in other matters, or even in other universities, or even in some hospitals, whether it's in the way that they operate and come back. They absolutely need to be eliminated. That's one of the most important things in the world. So, really, if we want to raise our universities to the level of education that they deserve -- which, at work, we know which of our universities are in line with the world universities -- then let's take a serious approach to this, take measures to raise the level of education -- and, especially, they're always saying, "Sir, this is a law that the military regime brings, we need to remove it." Everyone says, "Come, let's change the NGO Law," and let's get it in order. Because, as a matter of fact, the NGO has established a barrier to universities, so it's a separate clan, and it's no use to the country. I mean, you're not going to like the MCC, but no one's going to touch it. When you do something like this, you can't really tell the country, the country, the education of the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with all these colleges being established, there's one more serious issue: campus floor elections. Some of our universities have a number of runt issues in the selection of government universities. The location of this person or this person is taken to universities at very high prices. For example, I'd like to give you an example of this: the campus area of Ardahan University, Ardahan University, today, it's very interesting that, no matter who goes, who knows about those areas, turns into a swamp area, and especially in the winter water. Thus, although the university administration has repeatedly written this down to the NGO, it has not been cancelled from here, it is still being focused on the same stubbornness, and it can't even do the buildings of Ardahan University seriously. I'm saying this as a person who's worked at a university for 38 years. Instead of building a high school building in particular, I'd like to point out that buildings should be built with a university-appropriate construction, because when a student comes out of high school and comes to college, he has to psychologically accept that he's a college student. He can't get the college air without accepting it, and he can't perform in the education system. Finally, I'd like to make one more point. In many universities, education is done in foreign languages, English, German, French. Dear lawmakers, in no country in the world are trained in a language other than the official language of that country. You teach the language you want, you teach it all right, but in another language, education isn't done in a country, but in countries like this, there's a system. So I think it's imperative, instead of foreign language education in our universities, that units that teach the foreign language well should be opened and the language of education in our universities become a formal language. As I end my words, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0462par0250	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0463par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, wish you the best by the Kurukova Education and Culture Foundation, which will be established at the University of Law. In fact, we've told you about it in general presentations, but I want to say this: I've seen the most college teachers in the square, I've seen the university students, I've seen the most of them on Saturday, Sunday, Monday. Let me be clear: I've seen writers there, I've seen artists, I've seen sensitive cuts, and I've seen the tradesman, the middle class. And from the beginning to the morning, our citizens had no flags on their heads, no party flags. Some took their friends with them, some with their relatives, some playing music, some reading books. And these images -- as a city reaction, as a reaction to environmental planning -- when the second day of the shift, at 5:00 a.m., a brutal attack, and when those images came out to the public -- let me make it clear to you -- as someone who had an office there for 20 years, who knew the people there -- your citizen, the public, threw insurance. We need to underline this reality. God have mercy on social scientists, political scientists, educators, universities, strategists; see what they can predict, what they can talk about, they can't be passed on TV. But I want the colleges to talk, to talk about this social event, to figure out the code for this social rebellion, objection, anger. Believe me, if he solves well, he will help us as opposition to power, especially the main opposition. But it has to be very clear that no matter how much we appreciated the AK PARTI (AK PARTI) by putting the pictures of the ferry to the public as the Metropolitan City City Hall, as the Peace and Democracy Party, we as the Benci, selfish, self-centered, self-centered, I do, I do, I do, I do, I don't know what project, I don't know what project, the people's response comes at some point. And I'm very clear that if we can't set up society well... in the process of this solution -- I was in the taxi, I jumped on the plane, I went to Şırnak -- a division in Uludere took tanks in this peace process, its rangers, hundreds of soldiers, Sikorsky, and it's crossing the border. There's a strategic hill across the border, and it's an opportunity to cross, and we've warned the authorities about it. We found that it was useless, that no one was aware, that thousands of our citizens came between guerrillas and soldiers and prevented a catastrophic incident. On the other hand, this is happening on one side of our country. On the one hand, there is a tremendous, disproportionate violence, law enforcement, directed by the people reacting because of the events in the Travel Park. As a result of this law enforcement direction, a great public solidarity is spontaneously evolving. Believe me, in those streets, from the gas masks, the gas masks, the water, the drug maker, the guy who opened his shop, the guy who opened his cage, there was a tremendous act of solidarity. Seçselvi were not able to pass through the gas; Jihangir was not crossing; Istiklal Street, Galatasaray, Tunnel -- which I was always at these close distances, and my office was there; there was no way to even get there -- a constant water, gas attack; the Tarchhead; so was Elklağ Republic Street. These images are a warning to the operation of political power, which is actually a warning to us as opposition. That means that we, as opposition, were not able to have an effective opposition. If I were to bring up the party flags, raise the flags, raise the flags of racism, discrimination, showenism and aggression, even in that area, even in that civilian area -- I would take something out of it, against the ignorant politicians, and those in their understanding, if the opposition of this Assembly were to oppose as much as the Beşiktaş Marketing Group, this would not be the case of power now, my friends. You too would have been careful, and power would have been careful, and the main opposition would have gone a length of barley. Guys, what I've heard here for two days makes me sad. You are not a group of beloved MPs, nor is our citizen who collects the garbage at Travel Park, and walks around with his dog, and hugs flowers and trees; he is noble. We're surrogates, and this deputy's words are outrageous, my friends. We also rebel against this outrage, it's a disgrace. The regent needs to show some respect for the noble, some understanding, some understanding of his objection. There is no doubt about his objection to the environment, his objection to life intervention, his objection to planning, his objection to the bridge, his objection to the bridge, and beyond all that, his understanding that human safety and freedom cannot be delivered to gas flares. If you don't tell me about this, people will tell me one day. The police had TOMA, and in fact Beşiktaş's Marketing Group was a lesson from the POMA. There's a lesson to be learned. When you compel a person to do it in a way that he does not want to defend himself, you will find that public engineering, political engineering, is a very different thing if you read about Elias Canetti's displaced masses, the economic relationships. We, the members of this Assembly, who have not shown the ability to change the constitution of coup in forty years -- with its power and opposition -- stand in the squares and bow our necks before those who stand guard until the morning because of their naive thoughts in the Payum Travel Park. I bow my neck in front of them myself, with dignity. And thank you for the warning, but what is this cruelty? Guys, what's with the gas? The TOMAs from Diyarbakır have arrived. In Chile, of course, there were pots, pans, and horns in 1973. You're the only ones who made a profit, you took his light bulb, and you marked your party, and thanks to that light bulb, you're in power. Now, we've got 51 percent, so don't make that citizen puke, for God's sake. We, with a new understanding, dialogue, suhulet, in cold blood, the meeting of the Taxi Solidarity Platform with Mr. Arinc, the sensitivity of the Mansion... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what we call everyone. We have to figure this out, and if it doesn't, I'm warning you, these situations that are really open to provocations are going to have very painful consequences. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0464par0267	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0465par0271	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, we've been discussing the events of the Travel Park, which we've been talking heavily in parliament for two days, but have been number one on Turkey's agenda for nine days. Of course, there's no harm in arguing. Everyone has to learn important lessons from this discussion. As a matter of fact, our party and our government have made their own assessments, and with a responsible sense of politics, he has learned the lessons needed. Of course, there should be no judgment, no reproach, nor praise for violence. I think everyone should be sensitive and responsible about this. No doubt, in democratic societies, it is also important to express the reaction as a method of solving problems in developed, modern societies, as it is possible to express reaction on the street, as it is also important to be on the side of the solution rather than being part of the problem. In this regard, of course, dialogue channels, communication channels need to be open, and it is also appropriate for parties to express their proposals, their commitments, democratic discipline, and democratic maturity. As a matter of fact, Mr. President, our Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister have made some calls and I think these calls are well understood in society. As a matter of fact, these calls have been answered in society, and the first response to the calls of our President, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to the peace of mind was from Chorus, from my constituency. In fact, the fact that such an answer came from the Corum is both flattering and flattering, and they have set an example for me about how much the people of Corum have absorbed democracy, how much the people have matured from the sufferings of the past, and how much they have learned important lessons. This statement was issued today. Mr. Genghis Atlas, President of the Republican People's Party, Department of Ataturkci Thoughts, Mr. Uğur Demirer, head of Hacı Bektaş Veli Anadolu Cultural Foundation, Mr. Nurettin Aksoy and some groups have come together and have made this statement: We have not organised actions, saying that the people have been on the street for the past week. We've been involved in actions to not allow infiltrators to infiltrate the masses, to tolerate those who are in a bad cause. The people and groups who want to stir the Corrum should never be allowed to mix it. They continue to say: "The arrival of the people of BDP and the people of reason to Chorum, and the celebrations of May 1st were concluded with maturity as a result of the common sense of the people, their rulers, and their security forces. Let's be vigilant and cautious about the provocations of radical groups as we express our social responses. Let us never forget the events of my hand that have been provoked in the past. Our citizens who participate in the actions should freely demonstrate their democratic response within the legal boundaries, but should not be taken out of their mind that some dark centers may try to manipulate the country and our city in accordance with the intentions of some groups that may lead to chaos. From here, I congratulate and applaud my fellow countrymen, who are responsible and cold-blooded for this grand roof of Congress, who show this sensitivity.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0466par0275	We thank you, too.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0465par0276	Dear President, the esteemed lawmakers have also made similar remarks by the Council Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Stock Exchange, the Association of Corporate Journalists, the Association of Çorum Hititit Journalists. This great Assembly should not be behind these calls, and instead of offering a price for violence, it must ensure the calm of society by calling on the community to maintain peace, peace, and peace. There are places where they can talk, democratic platforms, mechanisms, if they have words to say, allegedly, a proposal, a project, a proposal. This is where they need to be evaluated. In fact, this declaration is a will that comes from maturity, a society that matures pain. I've just stated that I salute that will. Because this will knows that in the events that took place in Chorum, 1980, our brother Alevi, who had died of a bullet earlier this afternoon, and our Sunni brother, who died of a bullet in the afternoon, were also shot from the same gun. Thus, this darkness is still unlighted. In order to interpret these days, it is vital that the events of the past be revealed, the light of darkness be revealed, so that we can understand the events of these days correctly. I hereby salute the High Assembly and salute this exemplary behavior of the people of Chorum, and this exemplary behavior of the nation from here, and pay my respects to my countrymen, the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0280	Thank you, Mr. Goody.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0468par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0282	Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0468par0283	Mr. President, I'd like to share a piece of news we've just received with the Parliamentary General Assembly. Citizens of Rize...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0284	Please enter the system so we can understand what's going on, what's going on. If you'll open it, please.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0468par0285	I'm asking you to open it. I don't want to waste time.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0286	Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0468par0289	Mr. President, we've been informed that a number of our friends in our parliamentary group have just received phone calls and extraordinary events in Rize. Information is coming in that some people have raided the building of a association and surrounded it. We're concerned about an extremely negative outcome. We're concerned that the attempt to break the brother, the provocation, the deepening of the camp, will have negative consequences.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0469par0291	You're doing it! You're doing the same thing!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0292	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0468par0293	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, so I urge everyone to be sensitive, to be careful about this and especially the authorities. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to follow up on this matter. We're trying to reach the Home Secretary right now. Negative results, we wish for no new Sivas, and I call on everyone to reason and to pay attention.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0294	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0470par0297	Now, we called the Governor of Rize on the speech of the MP earlier, and asked him if there was any extraordinary circumstances that had been expressed in the Parliament. I'm telling you the exact same thing: there's nothing to be worried about except for a little tension and tension, but now we're looking at this information again, and we'll share it with you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0299	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0471par0300	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0301	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, I'd like to ask you very much...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0472par0302	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0467par0303	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0472par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. We have some information that may or may not have occurred in our province of Rize. We thank the Minister for his interest in the matter. We're working on the reality of this incident or the size of it by the friends in our group who are in charge. I'd like to thank the Republican People's Party's Deputy Director for showing such sensitivity. But I'd like to remind you that we have the same sensitivity... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Shut him up, please, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0473par0309	You go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0472par0310	I expected him to show the same sensitivity to the elements that burned our county and the elements that set fire to our boroughs. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0474par0312	Believe me, we do.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0475par0313	He's showing for all of them, he's showing for all of them.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0476par0314	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0477par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're getting information about the events in Rize. It was reflected today in the form of a serious lynching attempt against members of KESK, who had done a study for action and activity. Right now, hundreds of KESK members in a business inn at City Hall are under lynching attack, and we can't reach the Governor of Rize. We can't reach the Home Secretary, the Undersecretary of the Interior. We've notified the Home Office officials to put an urgent note in front of them, but there's still been no return. There are reports of serious problems from the local, which are not consistent with the Minister's statement. I think the Governor of Rize is just giving false information to avoid the incident. There is a situation that concerns the lives of hundreds of people. We're calling in the Home Office as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit03spe0478par0321	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0478par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 453 from where we left off. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Secretary, you were doing something for an explanation. I was wondering if we could have your explanation.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0479par0010	No, not yet, later.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0478par0011	Shall we move on to the QA?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0479par0012	Let's move on to the QA, if you'd like. I'd like to get one last piece of information.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0478par0013	Yes, sir. Let's move on to the ten-minute question-answer section. Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0480par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I have here a printed pamphlet on Kutlu Birth Week with the cooperation of Izmit National Education Directorate, Izmit Müfti and Kölebi Anadolu Imam Hatip High School. In this brochure, there is a title called "Why should Imam-recognizable?" And at the beginning, there is an explanation that people who have faith-religion must be imam-affirming in order to go to heaven, that they should be beautiful people in Article 2 (becoming a beautiful person) and winning a beautiful university in Article 3. Now, my question to you is that the national education department contributes to this kind of understanding that the mufti contributes to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Doesn't it make sense that other schools outside of your faith don't go to heaven?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0481par0021	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0482par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister -- news has also appeared in the press today -- a summary of the National Education Directorate has been sent to schools in Zonguldak. He says that he asked for a list of teachers and students who were absent from school on Mondays and Tuesdays, Zonguldak County National Education Directorate. Of course, because of this Travel Park protest, I believe our citizens are participating in these actions in Zonguldak. It's a generalization of students or teachers from high school. Do you know anything about that? Do you, as a minister, have such a request regarding Zonguldak (Zonguldak)? Other than that, in other cities, did the National Education Directors have such a request from the high schools again? I mean, has there been a situation where the National Board of Education has requested lists of names for teachers and students who didn't go to school, who didn't show up that day without permission?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0481par0025	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0483par0027	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I ask you as a government: State Opera and Ballet, State Symphony Orchestra, State Theatres, these are the institutions Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and Ismet Inönul. Even in the Middle Ages, European kings and rulers protected artists. In the founding years of the Republic, the people of Asia Minor, all of whom are poor peasants, have no power to support themselves so that they can protect the artist. Therefore, after the formation of the republic, our artists have been taken under the wing of the state. These institutions are a blessing to the public today, which our 1,800,000 citizens benefit from. The date and the people who would deprive the Turkish people of this blessing will not forgive. As Nazim Hikmet said in a poem, they are enemies of hope, my dear, "And your water floweth forth, By the tree when it grows full of fruit, An enemy of life that flourishes. Should I add to that, Mr. Secretary, the enemy of the high-quality art offered to the public, the ruling party of the AKP...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0484par0034	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0485par0036	In the 50th year of his death, we honor Nazim Hikmet Ran, who died in 3/6/1963. I hope the tomb will be brought to its real home as soon as possible, to the country where it yearns. He said: As a mare's head to the Mediterranean This country is ours. The wrists are covered in blood, the teeth are tied, the feet are bare. And earth as a carpet of silk, This hell, this heaven is ours. Close the hand doors, don't open them again. Destroy the human being's worship. This invitation is ours. Living like a tree is one and free And like a forest, like a brother, This longing is ours.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0486par0049	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Batum...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0487par0051	Mr. Secretary, when you were a very valuable professor, you entered politics. You've taught thousands of young people. Now, those young people -- the photos clearly show that -- have faced incredible police violence, openly inhumane treatment that exceeds even violence. Our Prime Minister left with the opposite attitude. We've already seen the same attitude before, whether it's a woman or a girl or something? Or a man who's dead, I don't care. Now, I'm asking you, what do you say to this inhumane treatment in the Council of Ministers? What are you going to do to make sure that young people get paid for this incredible treatment? Even if the Prime Minister argues otherwise, what will you do to answer for this inhumane treatment?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0486par0052	Thank you, Mr. Batum. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0488par0054	Mr. President, dear fellow lawmakers, let me make a brief statement regarding the situation with Rize. According to Rize Governor's information, there was a push, tension between citizens who were said to be from the Ataturkian Thought Association, and citizens who showed off. Police interfered with the separation, four of the shopkeepers were disturbed by the gas and were treated standing up at the hospital during this intervention. Other than that, there's no one in the hospital who's hurt or in critical condition. There's no one applying to the hospital for any reason. The crowd gathered around the Ataturist Thought Society, scattered, no incidents or attacks. He says there are 20 or 25 people in there, and we're trying to get them released, but some of the demonstrators in there don't want to come out, so they'd rather stay inside to get a little more publicity on social media. We're trying to convince them to come out. We're taking out people who want out, but we're trying to convince people who don't want to go out without making a big deal out of it... that's what the governor of Rize gave us. Any injury... as I said, four tradesmen were sick with gas, they were treated standing up at the hospital and discharged. That's the end of it. I mean, the governor says there's nothing serious to worry about about, any citizen.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0489par0056	Mr. President, I just spoke to the president of Rize County, and I just walked in, and we're there with the police commissioner, and there's a large group of people surrounding the group, and they're not taking it out, he says. Even a boy, a young man, came out and attacked him. We want to, you know, cut off the police in front of this group and get them out. They're still not taking it off. They're giving false information here.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0490par0057	They'll take it off, they'll take it off, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0489par0058	I just talked to him. I just talked to him. But the blame is... you can't go out on the street!
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0491par0060	Mr. Young, thank you for informing me.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0492par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0493par0062	Mr. President, I mean, we're going through a very critical period, and we need to do this with serious information. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, let's evaluate it after a healthy statement has been made here. There are wrong outcomes. Please, I mean...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0494par0063	No, now that I've spoken, I'm with the governor, the chief of police.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0495par0064	Mr. Vural, you're right. That's what the minister said.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0493par0065	So let's not bring this to anything else.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0495par0066	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0496par0068	Mr. President, we've been trying to reach the Governor of Rize for about half an hour now. Even though he knows we're looking, they don't answer our calls, and they don't bother to make a comeback. Look, this has become a habit. The governor on the Minister's phone, according to the political party order, is showing some behavior, as far as we can tell. Such a habit becomes increasingly common among governors when there is an emergency there. An appointed person has no right to answer the phone or not return the call of the MP representing the will of the Assembly. In this matter, if necessary, let the Home Secretary send a generalization to all governors, a serious arbitrary procedure, and we are afraid that one day it will come to a bitter conclusion.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0495par0069	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0497par0070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0495par0071	Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0497par0074	Now, there's something about Mr. Hasip Kaplan, who just spoke for the BDP Group, that I've noticed in his speech text, that needs to be seen. I read the phrases exactly: if later, by blending in with these crowds, by raising their own party banners, by raising flags, racism, discrimination, segregation, and aggression, even in that area, it goes on to say the unknowing politicians who are throwing up in that civilian field. I repeat: if the Turkish flag is meant to be a symbol of racism and showeism, then the Turkish flag is meant to be a symbol of racism.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0498par0075	He's talking about something different, not the flag.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0497par0076	The party banners are broken. Even though the party flags are expressed, I feel that if by removing the flags behind it, it means the Turkish flag, then the false statement must be corrected.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0498par0077	That's not the intention. He's talking about parties.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0499par0078	There's no intention.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0500par0079	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. [[Continue]] Mr. Secretary, I assume you'll answer the questions in writing. There's a motion I'm having read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the name shall be changed to the Law of the Law under Article 2 of Article 152 of Article 2 of the Law shall be changed to the University of Law of Adana. With all due respect. 29.05.2013 Muharrem Ilk Fatma Nur Serker Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0501par0095	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0500par0096	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0502par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. I'll explain my thoughts in favour of our motion on the Law on the Law on Change in the Law of the YRC Act No. 453 rows. Dear lawmakers, the process we're going through is a difficult process. If you'll excuse me, Minister, I'd like to talk to you about colleges. You remember, on 14/12/2011 as the Republican People's Party -- at our proposed law number 149 -- we offered the establishment of a new university in Gebze district, called Gebze University. Unfortunately, with the Justice and Development Party's votes, this bill has been rejected. However, all political parties in parliament today's group agreed on the establishment of a new university in the Gebze region in the election squares, and promised. Again, as you recall, we requested the establishment of Gebze University, which was more important without the province, as well as the first problem of Gebze. The reason is that for Gebze's university, the Gebzes, the Gebzes, one of the things that we can't afford is that we don't give up the university for the people's rights, for the people's rights, for the people who love their country, for the people who love it, for the people, for the people who love it, for the people who love it. In this city where their lifestyles are different because of the migration, where they come together, to embrace or even live a city culture that has been enriched by shared living spaces and social utensils, a university that has been culturally and socially integrated with the people of Gebze, an industrial and RD study is indispensable to us. That is why we have prepared such an offer of law. Our offer was denied. Moreover, the Justice and Development Party voted to reject the Kobeeli MPs. Dear lawmakers, you are correct in my meeting with these Kobeeli MPs later. That's what we promised during the election, we'll keep our promise. We turned down the bill you gave us, but wait, we'll give it to you, you support us... Mr. Light, I specifically mention your name, I want you to get up and answer from this bench. You promised the media in Alexei and Gebze, that we will start Gebze University in the school year of 2013-2014. We'll start with four new schools and open with the existing GYTE, even though it's not what we want it to be. The reason I use your name in particular is that you're the President of the Education Commission and five new universities are being established, and you can't keep your promise to the people of Gebze, even though you promised to the people in that area. Dear lawmakers, I want to remind you that the people in this area have been wronged. When I say, "You are the MP of Gebze, and not of Kopeeli. " Look, I'd like to remind you that 48 percent of the people in the Gebze region -- in Chasarova, Darica, Gebze, and Dilova -- live in Gebze. There are 45,000 students from the University of Kopeeli, 35 universities of applied sciences, and I regret to inform you that one student and one university of applied sciences are not in the Gebze region. Now, in your party, where there are seven MPs, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister and the lawmakers how you're going to make amends when we consider this injustice to Gebze, and especially this national education in terms of schools, in terms of students per capita in classrooms: how are you going to make amends? Mr. Light, I'm going to go out of this chair and open up for education at,2013-2014. I want you to stand by the University of Gebze, which you call Gebze. I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0503par0110	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0504par0111	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0503par0112	Here you go, Mr. Light. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we stand by what Mr. Mehmet Crescent Kaplan has expressed. Our work on the founding of the Gebze University is complete, and hopefully we're working on it before the end of the year of legislature, so don't worry. We stand by every promise we make. Besides, Gebze is our top priority in training. In 2013, in Gebze, you know we're opening our science high school this year, which is a very important development for our Gebze.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0505par0115	Sir, this isn't a matter for the Commission to answer! We also work very seriously at the point of the completion of crucial educational shortcomings for our nation. Hopefully, we'll share them from the podium in the future. Thank you. So the matter of Gebze Alexei is not the issue of the Commission, it is not a matter of the Commission.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0506par0119	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0505par0120	Which means he'll answer as the Alderman.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0506par0121	Mr. Vural, you've seen it very well. He didn't want to come to the stand without teasing, so...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0505par0122	If there's been a taunt, as Commissioner...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0506par0123	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0507par0124	I asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0506par0125	I'll call the number of decisions I need, sir. We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0508par0127	Mr. President, let's do it electronically.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit04spe0506par0128	Let's do the electronics, all right, here you go. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit05spe0506par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote voted by Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends on Article 152 under Article 2 of the bill. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... It's not accepted, there's enough to decide. We'll resume the talks of Bill 453 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit to your votes the supplement of Article 2 of Article 152: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-05sit06spe0506par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 453 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the meeting of the Environmental Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place, with the draft of the Nature and Biodiversity Protection Act. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Commission and Foreign Commission reports, which are ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Charter of the Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fishing and Water Products Commission Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, the decision is made to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, in accordance with the bill and proposals, on Thursday (June 6th 2013), at 14 p.m. on Thursday (June 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
