tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, a member of the Manisa MP who wants to talk about Bayburt's problems. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on the issues of Bayburt, and I salute your honorable committee. As I begin my speech, I, as a Manisa MP, will visit Bayburtt. And after that, I declare Manisa and Bayburtt to be a brother city from here. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] On June 13, 14, 15, 2013, we visited Bayburtt, with members of the Central Governing Body, and conducted various inspections on the assignment of our National Movement Party headquarters. We met with our citizens at Bayburt headquarters and Aydıntepe and Demirsözü districts, Arpalı village, where we personally listened to their problems by meeting with our tradesmen and farmers. During this three-day visit, I thank my brothers and sisters from Bayburt, who show us the best examples of Turkish hospitality and live and share a piece of bread with us, open their heart to us, and give you my greetings, love, and respect. While our Bayburt brothers are in our hearts, some of Bayburt's socioeconomic problems have also hurt our hearts. The negativity in the areas of transportation, industry, education, trade and demographics in Bayburtt, unfortunately, triggers one another. In Bayburt, unemployment and immigration have a very negative effect on socioeconomic life. Agriculture and livestock are almost dying. Our shopkeeper, who finished his day off, is at the point of closing the businesses. The wheels of the industry, which is already trying to exist with several businesses, are seriously struggling to turn. Unemployment and immigration have become the problem of every household in Bayburt. However, if we look at TÜİK data, Bayburt is Turkey's lowest unemployment rate. The unemployment rate is low, unfortunately, not because new jobs are being opened, but because unemployment has been permanently immigrated. As a matter of fact, the population of Bayburt (Bayburt), which was 97 thousand in 2000, was reduced to 76,000 in 2012. In 2023, it is expected to drop to 49 thousand. Socioeconomic development, which is the 64th ranking Bayburt, in terms of the SGE criteria, is in the fifth district, so it needs and cannot benefit from its investments. Therefore, we benefit from the implementation of private investment incentives for Bayburt. Bayburt is the 81st place between a total of 46 million and $929,000 public investments in 2013 and 81. So if it were 82 cities, it would still be 82, so it's the last in all public investments. In 2013, he was also ranked last with an investment of $22,822,000 in education. However, it appears to be the 20th place in the exams, which is a success, only because of the lack of students taking exams when we compare them to other provinces. In 2013, he was ranked number 73, with an investment of $2,2,000 in health care. In 2013, it was ranked 79,000 euros in transport investments. In mining, the 67th is the 57th in energy, the 61st in housing, and there is no investment in manufacturing and tourism. Bayburt, whose economy is based on agriculture and animalism, is ranked number 56, with an investment of $18,47,000 in agriculture in 2013. Seventy percent of the people of Aydıntepe earn their living from agriculture. Since there has been no water from the P2 Watering Canal for four years, our Aydıntepe farmers are having trouble watering. In the GAP-based cities, the investments in dairy cattle cattle are covered by breeding cattle enterprises under the DAP. Again, Bayburt was unable to benefit from the support of dairy cattleling under the GAP Action Plan, while on 16 February 2013, he began to benefit from the support of the DAP. The Erzincan-Trabzon railway project, which is of great importance to Bayburt's economy and social life, is unfortunately not supported by the government. With the railroad project, Bayburt has become attractive to private sector investments. From every point in the Black Sea to Erzincan railway...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0003par0028	Hail Bayburt.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0002par0029	I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi, who wants to talk about visits to the city of Ağrı due to the solution process. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book agreement regarding visits to the provinces of Mush and Ağrı as part of the settlement process. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY governments have launched a process to stab our country's 30-year-old bleeding wound. This process is under way for serious support in the Eastern Anatolian region, as in all parts of our country. In order to explain the solution process to our citizens and assess its reflections, we have met with our citizens in Mush and Ağrı, which are organised by our MPs from 21 counties and 30 MPs. On this trip, Mr. Menderes Türel, our vice president of the EC PARTI Group, was the first stop of the 30-member parliamentary delegation in the presidency of Mr. Ahmet Aydın. Members of the delegation, we met with citizens in groups from Mush Airport. Lawmakers on their way to the counties have received their opinion on the settlement process of citizens living in the district. In the evening, we met with all the NGOs in Mus County. At this meeting, after receiving the NGOs' opinions and suggestions, we discussed the solution process together in the afternoon. After the completion of the Mush Province programme, we moved to the District of Patnos, Ağrı Province, Turkey. We visited the Patnos people and tradespeople of Patnos after attending the groundbreaking ceremony of Patnos Sultan Alparslan School of Social Services, the Faculty of Engineering and the two-year university of applied sciences. From here, our fellow lawmakers, acting in groups to Ağrı central and districts, listened to our citizens' opinions. After attending the opening and groundbreaking ceremony of services performed by the City of Pain, we came together to discuss the solution process with a dinner attended by NGOs in the evening. Dear lawmakers, we're always in public as EC PARTY. We're people's party, and we're moving in the direction that people have drawn us so far, and we're moving on. We're doing everything in our power to solve our nation's problems. Turkey has made a great breakthrough in the last ten years. In economics, education, health and democratisation, Turkey has taken serious steps in all areas, making serious moves. Out there he became a symbol of dignity, and in there he became a huge trend of modernization, democratization, development and growth, which was locked down by the stability and trust of his people. Those who are uncomfortable with this trend, those who are uncomfortable with national will, those who are trying to avoid crisis, chaos, they have played similar games in this country in the past, and they have tried to re-play it, but our nation has responded with the meetings of Ankara, İstanbul, Kayseri, Samsun and Erzurum. There have always been circles that want to confuse Turkey, but our nation no longer cares about them and will not. Dear MPs, on our trips to Ağrı and Mush, our nation has declared this to us. Our nation no longer wants to have deaths in this country, no more tears, and now it wants to see the city of investments that terrorism has blocked. Citizens, we want to watch our children come back from the factory, not from the mountain. We need the solution more than bread. They call it water. We should not cover our ears for this noise that rises almost everywhere in Turkey. Since this voice, the AK PARTY, has heard this cry today, there has been no blood and tears in our country for nearly six months, and hopefully it won't flow again. I'm here to thank Mr. Prime Minister, who has not denied us his support for this trip, and our sincere embracers of Mush and Ağrı, Mush County and County. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly, saying, "God be with you."
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. It belongs to İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt. By the way, Mr. Altay, congratulations. Good luck, good luck, and I wish you the rest of your successes. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0007par0051	My esteemed President, my fellow lawmakers, protests from the Travel Park that started about three weeks ago and are still going on, are taking place in a number of images we don't want in the country. There are 22 people in Istanbul, 4,675 injured. Two lives remain at risk, two in the ICU, seven in severe head trauma, six in the eye loss. Only on June 22nd, 19 plastic bullets were injured, 2 people had skull edema, 1 had facial bones injury, 2 people had a baton injury, 1 person had a broken wrist, 1 person had an asthma attack, 5 centimeters in the scalp, 8 people had 2°th degree burns, 26 people were affected by gas, 1 person had an epilepsy seizure, gas bomb and an asthma attack on a doctor in the infirmary. Ankara has a severe 1.544 wounded, head trauma with 7 severe fractures, 1 visual loss. Izmir was wounded in two hundred and eight times, three of whom were heavily wounded in Antioch, six of whom were heavily wounded in Adana, 162 were injured in the head, and five were injured in the head. A total of 8,038 people were injured in the process until June 24th. The biggest balance sheet was the death of four people. Mehmet Ayvallıtaş died on 2 June 2013 under the vehicle in Umraniyede İstanbul. On 3 June 2013, Abdullah died from a generous blow to his head. Sergeant Mustafa Sarı, who fell off the bridge in Adana on June 5, 2013, died in the hospital where he was taken seriously wounded. Mehmet Ethem Sarısüllik, who was severely injured in actions in Ankara on June 1st, was killed by bullets from one police officer's gun, was released in a hurry. Unfortunately, the release that wasn't even in a car accident took place in this case. There are 60 seriously injured in the country. There were dozens of local and foreign press. Let's come to the effects of pepper gas, which the Interior Minister argues does not harm human health, which the prime minister described as the police's primary duty, which was considered a violation of human rights in peaceful demonstrations on April 10, 2012, according to the European Court of Human Rights ruling. This harmless gas has killed eight of our citizens so far. Irfan Tuna, who worked as a janitor at a school in Kızılay district of Ankara on June 5th, died of a heart attack following a heavy gas attack by police. We're lying, forensics is lying, who's responsible? It must be revealed at once. We see that the release of tear gas in closed spaces is strictly prohibited under international agreements, that it is specified by the ECHR, that its use should be in accordance with relevant instructions, but has been used without any rules for the past month. Why are we talking about this? It's always the same song in your tongue. The prime minister says a group of about 100 people attacked a woman and her baby with a headscarf in Istanbul and did their urine, as they dragged the bride of a very important relative of mine on the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, we've been saying a lot of things for days, and we're proving it with images, and it's all over the media. Besides, we don't have strong intelligence agencies under our command. You're saying there's a lot of agents in our country, that this is all an international scam. Instead of shouting from the stand, why don't you ask the MIT, who you're so protective of, why don't you prove your claims? What does this MIT, this law enforcement, intelligence do? Why aren't these people exposed? If there are such scoundrels, why isn't they exhibited in public at once? There goes the terror-proclaiming fair. You're declaring a man a terrorist because he's been in a couple of shows. The broadcaster, which is supposed to be a state television, returned with our taxes, and is named after it, isn't the video of the killing of Ethem. It's the video from five minutes before that, it's the terrorist. The Ethem Yellowsum, whose killer you have protected, has been declared a terrorist. You're about to tell me that this young man, this young man, is a murderer, and you're going to come out with these words. They weren't always terrorists, they were patriotic children, they were patriotic children, they were patriotic children. Those who kneel before the Taliban yesterday will be judged by history, and we will see it together. Every day, the police that the Prime Minister has declared a hero, a different skill emerges. During the protests in Sarıgazi, footage of Håkan Raman (Pharaoh) who was attacked by the police in inhumanity appears to have been beaten and thrown into the fire even on all websites today. My dear friends, remember, fear is contagious, but courage is contagious. Even if you declare each and every one of us terrorists, we will not forget these days, nor will we forget these days, nor will we ever judge your actions before history. We'd like you to put yourselves in the shoes of our friends who have been poked out of their eyes for a minute. My respects to all of you. I wonder how you'll last a second with that move. [[Waiting with the left hand of the hat with the left eye closed]] [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You can't even stand it. I hope it doesn't happen to you. Hopefully, those who cause it will be tried in this Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. Övüt. I'll give you my word on the 60th article. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0009par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Kemal Ozturk has been appointed as Prime Minister's press adviser to the Anadolu Agency's General Directorate. In the context of capital increase, the shares that did not exercise the right to subsidies were bought by the head of the Anadolu Agency, General Manager Ozturk. Thus, he purchased 1 million 287,000 shares of the company and became the main partner of the Anadolu Agency. After the capital increase, he came among the main partners and took over the main contract change and took over the management and control of the company. The Director of the Anadolu Agency has not only been the manager at this stage, but also the owner of the agency. During AKP rule, the ownership of institutions has become sold to the head of the institution, and selling institutions to the head of institutions is an AKP classic. Power knows no bounds in all sales. This is not an act of good, but a little harm, a reminder from Us.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0008par0074	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0010par0076	Mr. President, thank you. Now, Mr. President says he defends the people by saying, "I am Gaza, the defender of the people who have been ruling for ten years, in Syria, Palestine, sometimes in the new fashion-Kürdistan." Do those Turks not consider defending the Turkmen there, just as one day, at the point of condemning these deaths, when they are being attacked daily and killed in Musul, Kerkuk. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0011par0079	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0012par0081	Mr. President, today is International Solidarity Day with the Torturers. For a month, our country has been living on the streets of torture - pepper spray, gas water, nightsticks, rough beatings, eye-breaking, plastic bullets, and eventually killing people. Not just demonstrators; lawyers, journalists, lawmakers, health workers, everyone got their share of this police brutality. These aren't disproportionate forces, they're open torture practices, people's crimes. Today, after the children of Antalya, who had been in the press today, the service driver in Sarıgazi, Hakan Raman, came to us dramatically after the brutal beating and removal of his eye. 300 children were taken into custody. At the age of 14, berkin elvan lies in the Okmeydandan with a life-threatening threat. The Prime Minister says I don't feed my police. He writes heroic myths, but millions write myths of freedom and democracy in the squares and organises forums. Democracy will be the result of what the Prime Minister calls the foot gang. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0011par0083	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0013par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday many of our brothers were killed, including Vice President Ali Hashim Mukhtaroğlu of the Iraqi Turkmen Front and Vice Governor Ahmet Husband, as a result of a vicious bomb attack in the district of Salahattin, Iraq. I strongly curse this treacherous attack on our kinsmen, asking for God's mercy on the martyrs, and immediate healing for the wounded. In Iraq, the attacks on Turkmen continue to grow day after day. When will the Prime Minister and the AKP government hear the cries of our Turkmen brothers? When will Turkmen's rights and interests be defended? Where are the red lines in 2002? Is it a mop? We're looking forward to an answer. The Turkmen's righteous cause must be told in all the world, to be looked after. I expect our council to make a special agenda on the matter and deliver the necessary message to the world, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0014par0088	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0015par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, health care for health services. On the grounds that they didn't send data to the Net 2 system or that they were missing, our fellow dentists have been informed that they were being notified. These notifications also require grounds for non-reportation by institutions and organisations that do not send data. However, the issue was taken to the Constitutional Court, and the Supreme Court has ruled that it is not possible for the Ministry of Health to ask for health care information on the patient's personal data from dental clinics and other health institutions. Despite this decision, on what grounds does the Ministry of Health issue such a notification to our colleagues? On what grounds did the ministry send a piece of text to IT firms, and in some places, text messages to our colleagues, written or verbally, indicate that the systems will continue to work the same way, and we're very curious, and I want them to be announced to our colleagues. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0016par0093	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0017par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Kahramanmarash Elbistan, Afşin, Göksun, especially in Turkoğlu and other counties are now waiting for water. Because of the problem between irrigating companies and power companies in this region, the fields are now irrigated, and our farmer is suffering a great deal of misery. It's a national economy. Our crops in this field must be watered. We ask the relevant ministries, we demand that this problem be immediately addressed as a hero-marslayer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0018par0099	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, in Iraq, 13 people were killed and 71 others were injured in the two suicide attacks against Turks in the village of Tuzhurmatu, in the city of Selahattin, with the Turkish Front Vice President Ali Hashim Mukhtaroglu. Again, today, in Syria, Aleppo Başköy is also surrounded by the Turkish village of Başköy, also by the PYD. They say there are dead and wounded here, too. An ethnic cleansing has occurred in these two regions against the Turkmen. I'm calling the government to take care of this. In addition, the diploma ceremony of the civil servants of the Patriotic Revolutionary Youth Movement, which is part of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) district of Şırnak province has been held. If we combine these with these two events, I believe the image that emerges is in the interest of the government. I demand that these be put in order. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0020par0108	Mr. Akbulut...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0021par0110	Mr. President, two weeks ago I made a special visit to Mardin and Şanlıurfa districts and districts. I've watched a very positive reflection of the solution process in the region, which will lead to the end of the 30-year-old terror problem. It was almost peaceful and springy in the region. In hotels, the filling rate reached 90 percent, and those who wanted to invest in the region were in line. I thank our Prime Minister and all those who have worked so hard to bring about this unity and unity and brotherhood, and to those who have done so, and to those who have done so, and to those who have done so.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0020par0111	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0022par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, torture is considered a crime of humanity. As the Day of Solidarity with the Torturers on June 26th, we remind you that torture is a crime of humanity. While the world conjuncturing measures and criminal sanctions have been tried to strengthen, Turkey has reached the streets overflowing with torture, security institutions. The protection, widespread torture, and condensation of the public and political power of security officers who were in the middle of the street torturing people who caused the death. The public staff, with all the evidence they've been torturing, with all the evidence they've done, are constantly trying to be rescued by various false statements in the face of certain criminal proceedings intended for a reward. Those who order torture crimes are also rewarded by being brought to higher promotions. In the face of torture and the protection of all political power against society and its government and its officers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the torture becomes a part of normal life day by day. We condemn this attitude as the Peace and Democracy Party, and I want to emphasize again that torture should be considered a crime of humanity. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0023par0119	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you. Mr. President, today we have watched sad footage in the newspapers, yesterday, in the newspapers, on TVs, on one corner of our homeland geography, of training in PKK rags, so-called law enforcement forces, and of which diplomas have been distributed. Now, in these matters, a minister of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must come and give information. Such an outrage is not acceptable. There is only one legitimate defense over the land of the Republic of Turkey, which is our police, our military. I regret that the government has not really expressed its stance on such an important issue and has not informed the Grand National Assembly of this matter. This is not a subject that can be digested. It is a subject of our sovereignty, the PKK-KCK parallel state structure is deepened in East and Southeast.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0023par0123	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0025par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, my constituency in Adana, the Pozanti, Hamişlı, Cookbekir, and Hamidiye districts, Aladağ and Karaisian, the olive harvest began in Saimbeyli, but we are going through a period when the farmers fell into the streams after a year's hard work failed to pay off. The abandonment of our farmers, all their debts and futures, to a few brokers, is a victim of thousands of our farmers. I believe that measures should be taken at the point of strengthening the troops. Once again, when we travel, the town of Square, where thousands of people live 30 miles [45 km] from Adana, is at the bottom of Adana, without water. Again, Martyr Zafer Sabanci District is dehydrated. Despite our search for the Secretariat of the Special Administration for a solution, unfortunately, we are going through a process in which the appointed ones have not even been able to make a phone call. What will be the problem with our citizens, these citizens, who are suffering from thirst 30 miles [45 km] from Adana?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0026par0128	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0027par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. We've had opposition lawmakers who have declared police violence. When we see the footage, we see that these statements are not true, that the security forces are the ones who are being subjected to the real violence. Unfortunately, one of our police officers died and more than 600 of our officers were injured in the incidents. I'd like to point out that it's not right to blame the police who are working to prevent incidents in legal defense while the images of the people who attacked the police with sticks, the people who burned the shops, the people who damaged the environment are in the middle. Our people want peace. I say that such violence should not be encouraged, that our MPs should be more sensitive about it, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit01spe0028par0133	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The Law on the Order of the Trade of Foods and Needed Other Things, known in public as Hal Law 5957," was adopted in early 2012. The failures in the application have brought many problems, and have caused complaints from all sides, including producers, wholesalers, municipalities, consumers. In order to address the failures in the application and to determine the measures needed to be taken to address the problems that have arisen, we would like to ask that Parliament be opened under the Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, 98, TBM Institution. 20/03/2012 [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Malatya]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 9) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Artvin]] [[Gaziantep]] 15) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 17) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 23) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] Our country is the fourth largest producer of vegetables and fruit in the world after China, India and the United States. According to estimates from the Ministry of Agriculture, 45 million tonnes of vegetables and fruits were produced in 2011. It has 17 million tons of fruit and 28 million tons of vegetables. According to the Interior Trade General Directorate, about 5 per cent of the vegetables and fruits produced in 2010 are exported and 95 per cent are consumed in the country. However, 25 per cent of it is lost before it reaches its consumption centres. 30 per cent of domestic vegetables and fruits are processed, while the remaining 70 per cent are sold off the books. The wholesaler states are where the producers and merchants' goods established by municipalities are marketed and evaluated for money, where they find a price. So it's kind of a vegetable and fruit market. Collective states are also the lowest and state's blockage collection sites. Vegetables and fruit are not affordable because it is not sustainable. Raf life is short, corruptable, decayable, and prices are determined by daily supply and demand. No one is satisfied with the 5957 new state law imposed on this New Year's Eve and has brought many problems with it. 1) It's said to be cheap, it's not cheap. There are still complaints of high prices from consumer areas. Products are sold at 4-5 times the state in the production area at the grocery stores in Ankara and Istanbul. It used to be like this, and it's like this now. 2) The reciprocal income of municipalities, which used to be 2%, was reduced to 0.25 per cent in production areas. With this income, the analysis lab, all investments like cold storage aside, you can't even clean up after yourself. It's said how to clean up so many wastes that only the fruits and vegetables between the Finike-Kumluca have found 500,000 tons in one season. 3) The rights of the brokers of the shop were taken from them. After forty and fifty years as a broker, our children ask what will be left to our children. They're the ones who advance the manufacturers and give the buyers credit. If there is a flood, frosts, a hailing disaster in the production area, the manufacturer cannot buy goods and is subjected to executions due to bank loans. But brokerage is based on trust. If the broker doesn't give an advance to the sender, no one will send goods to his shop, no one will buy goods from his shop if he doesn't give them on credit. 4) The new Czech Law is not deterrent, it is against the harvester and the manufacturer. Whoever gives the check will get away with it. And then the check will not be paid. So he who comes, he who comes, he who goes, he will strike. How to protect the broker and the manufacturer's rights. 5) The Hal notification system has been prepared and screwed up by bureaucrats of the Interior Trade General Directorate, who are not entirely in control of the issue. The system is down and out of order. 6) The VAT within the Hal is 1 per cent and 8 per cent outside the state. Large businesses are in the process of buying a small shop and trying to solve the problem. 7) The ministry has determined only the Foundation as the ranking authority. However, there are no Foundationsbanks in every centre like Demre, so there are victims. The matter must be investigated and proposed by setting up a research commission for reasons that we will present above and for reasons which we will present at the Grand National Assembly of TBMM during the talks. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly By identifying the causes of traffic accidents that caused the deaths of seasonal traveling farm workers, including women, children and elderly, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 104, and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104, and 105. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] In this season when agricultural production has become dense, as every year, tens of thousands of traveling farm workers have started their seasonal migration. Tens of traveling farm workers in Turkey die every year from traffic accidents during transport. In the cities they live in where they have no jobs, where they have no social security, the elderly, children and women who work for 20 lira a day, are being carried into truck safes because they cannot afford transportation costs, and accidents are being lost in their vehicles that are not suitable for traffic. This problem that has been going on for years has not yet been solved. However, the 2009 Ministry of Interior generalised this problem and it was suggested that an arrangement would be made. But as we arrived, no progress has been made to resolve this problem, no measures set in the general population have been implemented. That's why there are dozens of accidents every year. 11 people born in Mardin were killed in the accident in Beypazarı district of Ankara on 27/1/2011. In poverty and poverty, our citizens, mostly Kurds, who move to other cities as a cheap labor force in truck safes, are sent back to their homes in coffins for bread money. Their journey, which begins in truck safes, often ends in traffic accidents. I don't have a step forward this year either. Apparently, the workers will be watched by their deaths again. The Prime Minister's General Assembly, which includes measures to address housing, education, health care, social environments, work and social security issues, was published on 28 March 2010 in the Official Gazette. Although it contains important issues to address the problems of seasonal traveling farm workers, not one of them has been successful in implementing them, agricultural workers have continued to be without all guarantees under negative circumstances. Seasonal traveling farm workers have no opportunities offered by the state or by the employer in terms of housing, education, health care, social environment, working and social security. While seasonal workers' work and wage conditions are extremely underprivileged, there will be more casualties if their transportation problems remain unresolved. Seasonal farm workers from long distances continue to travel in truck safes, tractor trailers, or stuffed vehicles. All the problems of seasonal traveling farm workers need to be addressed. The matter of direct access to life's security is a situation where immediate solutions are needed. It is clear that the government will not provide a complete solution to the problems of seasonal agricultural workers. However, traffic controls must be increased, car and traffic safety controls must be controlled, and the frequent traffic accidents must be halted, preventing workers' deaths, at least in order to ensure that their journeys are safe and healthy during the migration period. For permanent solutions to the problem, a parliamentary investigation is required. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate private security officers' rights, health problems and other necessary measures, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of the Parliament's investigation under the articles of the 98th, 104th and 105th Amendments of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Eskişehir]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Elizipt]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Yozgat]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 20) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] In public and private institutions, shopping malls, or even websites, etc. Protection and security measures for outside threats are being increased every day, and their options are constantly improved. With the lack of public security services and the growing need for security services, private security companies have been allowed to operate in the public area, and the duties and responsibilities are defined by law and regulations. The importance of private security services in making our lives easier and in a sense of trust is accepted by everyone. As part of the 5188 Special Security Services Act, private security companies, using technology and manpower to complete public safety services, are constantly developing protection and security options in person and within the institution. Electromagnetic field-based sensitive doors and metal detectors and x-ray devices are technological assistants to security guards. Every day we pass at least once, and we're not really aware of the security points, they're in very close proximity to the doors at the entrances of the building. The one where the security guards are standing next to him, the bag and so on. The x-ray devices that we're passing through our stuff have the word "regular radiation" on them. According to research, more than one pass during the day, radiation builds up in our belongings and especially in food materials. The security guard who works next to the x-ray device is also subject to long-term effects of low doses of radiation. In addition, private security officers who work under Law 5188 are on 24-hour basis and are on shift. Due to long working hours and overtime, they face constant health problems because they work in chronic fatigues, open spaces, or doorways. Because of some of the incidents they witnessed during their missions, they are able to face threats, extortion, injury, and even death. Problems such as the rights of private security officers, wages, severance pay, gun compensation and promotion in office are also a key factor in motivation reductions and extremism. The overall purpose of the study is to eliminate increasingly widespread private security services workers, health-threatening factors, boosting motivation and preventing extinction. The bottom lines of research are: 1) To determine the number of security companies and employees operating in our country, 2) Set the employee's weekly hours, 3) To determine the effects of radiation-leaving devices on security guards, 4) To determine how frequently the calibrations of radiation-leaving devices are performed, 5) To determine the number and frequency of employees working in security services to apply for health care services, 6) Set the conditions for the psychosocial welfare of security workers, 7) Set arrangements for boosting motivation in matters such as autonomy rights and wages. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0028par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 26/6/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. The Turkish Parliament's agenda of the Grand National Assembly (Turkish Parliament) (October 10, 2012) was "Security of measures that should be taken by investigating children's drug use" and "Investigating measures that should be taken by investigation of drug addiction and trafficking" (10/448). In favor of the National Movement Group's proposal, Mr. Reşat MP. Right. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0029par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise in our schools regarding the motion to investigate the state of drug use and substance abuse and the measures we've made to take. I salute the High Council. June 26th was adopted as World Matter Use and Trafficking Day by the United Nations. And I'm celebrating this day, and I'm congratulating everyone who's sensitive. Drug use in our country is increasing day by day, as in many countries around the world. The age of drug use is also down to 11 years old, so the age of elementary school is down to the age of the children. This is a very bad painting. In our schools, we must conduct this kind of research, and the necessary measures must be taken. That's the nature of the research proposal we've submitted. If today's use of matter is not prevented, it will continue to be the country's most important problem. Unfortunately, the damage done by the AKP's power in social order has caused families to face many difficulties. In our country, farmers, civil servants, retired workers, businessmen, tradesmen are in great trouble. According to these, debts cannot be repaid, and every day they face executions. It's demoralizing society, leading people to despair. As a result, the use of substances in humans is increasing day by day. Young people, adults, women, elderly people, unfortunately, are facing substance abuse every day. The AKP's power must surely see these young people, see these people. In many of our cities, particularly large cities, the number of drug and other drug addicts is increasing, families are disbanding. National Education, Family and Social Policy, Health Ministry authorities must take care of young people quickly but quickly, or rather take care of the people. Unfortunately, the ministries are avoiding this important issue with dressing measures, and unfortunately they do not find a solution. Congressmans, of course, there are a lot of different kinds of research about this. In particular, research by TUBIM (TUBIM) has done, research by various institutions and organisations, research by the TÜİK (TÜİK) shows how desperate the event is and how urgent measures must be taken. For example, the use rate of any substance in the 15-34-year-old group has increased to almost 1.6%, including cannabis. This is a situation that needs to be evaluated in a very serious sense. Studies among students have seen the rate of at least 1.5 per cent of any illicit addictions tested once. This rate is 2.3 percent in men; 0.7 in girls. Unfortunately, in the family of 1.1% of students, there is a use of such substances as tobacco, smoking, or alcohol use. These include the age of first use of matter, especially around the age of 14. Given these research results, the issue is very important to our country. In Article 58 of our Constitution, the state takes the necessary measures to protect young people from drug substances. It is said that these measures are not being taken, unfortunately, so the protective table is not being fulfilled. Hence, environmental prevention study groups must and must be formed. School, family, community-oriented work must be done. Congressmans, despite this great threat, our schools have not had research on drug use in nine years, unfortunately. The ESPAD, which is implemented in Europe and is requested to be implemented in our country, is unfortunately not being conducted since 2003, because the Ministry of National Education did not allow it. Let's do this ESPAD Project, even though we've told all of the national education ministers, all of them, all of them in our talks, our research proposals, our question proposals, and let's do this project, let's figure out the use of substance in our schools across Turkey, let's figure out the use of drugs. Unfortunately, there's not been any progress in that, but no Minister of Education has ever started working on it until now. That's not true. In our country, this habit continues to grow in our children and young people. Of course, it's our ministers and our officials who won't allow it. The fight against unemployment and poverty in the AKP's rule is not enough, unfortunately. From his pensioner to his employer, to his farmers, to his businessmen, to his disabled, he struggles to live under very difficult conditions. The difficulty of living at home is affecting family ties, and children remain indifferent and unclaimed. Also, the various lack of dialogue between family members leaves children out in the outside world, alone in bad habits. In the end, our children face terrible situations that are unacceptable. Therefore, all members of the community -- including NGOs -- are responsible, especially the government's officials. So instead of directing these events on young people through various projects, busyness, unfortunately, we don't strengthen family ties, we don't do various projects. Congressmans, the state must be involved everywhere from supply to drug use. Today, our country faces a heavy PKK attack. The source of revenues of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and other terrorist organisations is at the head of their revenues, and many of them have drug trafficking, which, unfortunately, appears and is mentioned every day. It is also stated that this amounted to over $10 billion, so over $10 billion, in the hands of terrorist organizations, is made from drugs. See, as it has been reflected in the media lately, there are ACK constructions in the East and Southeast District, PKK structures, law enforcement structures. That's not true. The government must intervene quickly, in this direction. In particular, I'm saying, look, the K.K.C.D. structures are almost there, and they're in position to provide security there. Sure, what do you mean he's here? There was also a lack of security, and with it, the road to drug trafficking -- synthetic drugs and organic drugs -- has been opened up. I mean, right now, unfortunately, our borders have turned into kevgis, smuggling is on its way. So, in this way, we say that our young people are being poisoned. During the poisoning of our young, the PKK terrorist organization, we say, is getting its biggest source of income from here, but we live in a time period where the government is unfortunately watching, and this kind of transition has almost made trafficking legal. That's not true. This is a mistake to our country, a mistake to our nation. These children are our children, this country is our country. No one, no one, should have the right to divide this country, to tear it apart, to destroy it, to disrupt our national unity and unity. Look, we're saying that our country is in trouble with the drugs. In 2011, 67,099 drug incidents occurred in our country and 105,665 people were arrested and transferred to the courthouse. Eighty-seven percent of these cases include possession of drugs and substance use, 13 per cent of trafficking and trafficking. So the proportion of drug offenders in prisons is constantly increasing, and unfortunately, that increase is becoming increasingly unacceptable. Respected lawmakers, in 2007, in the 23rd term, our Parliament established a research commission, a commission for the study of substance abuse. In fact, even though this commission has done some very important work, no study has been carried out after the work of this commission. We're saying there's a drug problem in our country. Regarding this, the last part of that report states that a new institution should be formed. See, at the moment, almost TUBIM in our country, the COM Agency for trafficking, has taken this job on top of its head. TUBIM organized an international conference ten to fifteen days ago, and it continues its work intensively. I give thanks and thanks from here to TUBIM employees, TUBIM authorities, from the smallest officer to the superior. But drug use, dear friends, is a disease, an important problem. There's no easy way to avoid this problem. So the Ministry of Interior should be responsible, and the Ministry of Health should be responsible, and the Ministry of Family Affairs should be responsible, and even the Ministry of Youth and Sports should be responsible for this, unfortunately, but as we can see, all of this is being pushed aside. See, we're calling it June 26th, here it is, the United Nations War on Drugs and Trafficking Day, but you're looking at the past years, and on June 26th, it's just that, you know, TUBIM is handing out brochures that TÜBIM has created in İstanbul's Pay Square or Ankara's Kızılay Square, but other ministries haven't done much. That's not true. The residency courts must also be established, a new unit must be formed, and Turkish man, Turkish child, Turkish youth must be protected. If we don't protect it, we'll be betraying our future generations. And he says that no one can lift this betrayal, and I salute the High Council. And I certainly hope that our motion will respond in every way. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0030par0036	Thank you, Mr. Right. Against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, Van MP Özdal Threeer. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0031par0040	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Well, technically, we'd like to take the right of word against him in our favor, in fact, but while we're explaining the matter, we'd like to point out that we disagree with the public differently with some misinformation. I want to make it clear that as the source of all the negatives in this country, we do not agree with the idea that he would show the PKK. Dear friends, as everyone tells us, tell us the truth, tell no stories, and I will try to tell the truth from the stories. Think of an official public school in accordance with the national education ministry, the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, its laws, its regulations, its regulations, its regulations. There is a big mistake here if someone can sell drugs to their elementary school children in the school yard, with police supervision in the school, and someone can sell drugs to them in the school, and there is a responsibility to the primary school, as well as to the Kurdistan or Turkey Metropolitans, as you would call them regionally, in the district of Turkey. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. It is allowed to sell heroin to elementary school children and to sell marijuana under the control of the state's police system, both in Van, in İstanbul, in Antalya, and in Diyarbakır. And in fact, you've seen recently in the incident in Van. The police themselves were taken from the heroin shipment. And what about those who don't get caught? How many networks are there? Think about it, there's border outpost troops. The children who pass through the borders can be slaughtered like Roboski, for a can of diesel. A child can be killed by soldiers of the state's army because he brought a can of diesel in Van. But with a truckload of heroin on the same border, heroin can go all the way to Istanbul. Well, isn't the soldier responsible for not catching this heroin-loaded truck, the judge responsible? With the president, what did the prosecutors do with the heroin that would be used as a sample in their own vehicle? What kind of investigation did this take place? There's some things you have to sit on a curve and talk straight. I understand the sensitivity of our friends to youth, to childhood, to our fellow lawmakers, but no matter what problems, there is no way to solve any problem that is literally undefined, unrecognizable with its reality. A truck comes in from Turkey, comes out of Istanbul, but a child can be killed as a container of diesel, as a smuggler. As you go from there to here, even as a tourist, you pass the search point 11 times when you come from Elekova to Tatvan Balaban. Those who made this call were not the guerrillas of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), but the soldiers of the Turkish army, the police belonging to the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Turkey, and the judicial forces controlling it. Some things need to be considered for real. Everyone knows about teenage corruption operations in colleges. Look, in Kurdistan, Kurdish youth march against arm-in-arms, shoulder-to-shoulder, corruption, prostitution, heroin addiction and so on. What are the police doing? Is there such a good purpose in the world for young people to act? No guns, no violence, but there's a march to make sure that teenagers don't get corrupted, don't get into heroin, don't get into prostitution, this country's -- like the Prime Minister said -- the police who passed the democracy test are throwing gas bombs at those young people, maybe they'll get their eyes out, maybe they'll get their eyes out. Ceylan Önkol -- we've said it hundreds of times before -- was killed by the soldier's bomb in this country, Uğur Kaymaz was killed by the gun, by the gun, by the police of the state, university students are right, but if you don't see the skyscrapers planted by heroin networks in Ankara, you can't see who their partners are, you can't solve this problem. You can explain who's in Istanbul and who's in it, no matter who. Dear friends, no matter who it is, whoever it is, we need to see that the harm it does to all of our children, to this citizen's children, to their youth. Imagine, in Istanbul, the people who went out for a democracy act, a young girl, a water bottle in her hand is considered a bomb, but heroin from Afghanistan is not supposed to be taken. Well, the cop who's ignoring this, the governor who's ignoring it, the police commander who's ignoring it, isn't the legal system responsible? No one is to blame the flaws, the guilt, on any of the other high-end connections who deal in the school yard. Turkish, Kurdish, Alevi, Laz, Çerkek, young people, children are being harmed. If the solution is to truly seek a solution, then the question will be addressed literally, and everyone will vote and leave for this research commission, this research proposal. So we're going to vote positive for this research motion, but against content assessments, by expressing our opposition views in the way I state it. Imagine, still, for two years, I've been going back to Van's about the earthquake in Van... because yesterday, the day after that, the lottery was drawn, supposedly in the presence of the notary. But who took it? The congressman took it. Who'd he pull? He filmed his uncle's son. The governor took it. Who? He pulled the son of the other congressman's uncle. You can't fool anyone with a draw like that. Think about it: 20 of the 20 relatives of one MP are out of the lot, but seven of the 200 families in the container are out of the draw. Let's see if people with mathematical statistics can calculate the probability; 20 out of 20, 7 out of 200. Even if you roll the dice, you can't go down that low, but their dice always come down. Here, the Zilan massacre that has been going on for a hundred years has been going on and on since this earthquake. This week is the anniversary of a jenosidin, a genocide, the anniversary of a massacre, the death of tens of thousands of Kurds, who were slaughtered only because they were Kurds. This weekend, we will be together again at Zilan Creek to commemorate the martyrs of the Zilan massacre, with the Ercish people, and there is still only one cry echoing in Zilan. It's a big discrepancy, and even in their aunts, people are dancing with their mourning for Zilan. Even in their aunts, people cry for Zilan, and do you know what that cry is? (x) By singing this song, the melody of it, people are still saying that the blood flowing in Zilan is lost in Zilan, the mourners are still mourning their weddings, but in this country, a sincere transparency on the control of the powers of the state needs to be carried out. If a young man can be shot in the head for throwing a slogan, we need to see the contradiction of the favors this country has offered to a person who sells 1 ton of heroin, and we haven't forgotten Zilan. We haven't forgotten our murdered children, our young ones, we won't forget them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In accordance with freedom and equality in this country, we will support any sensitive initiative for an order worthy of the honor of humanity. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0032par0056	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0033par0057	Mr. President, there's been some bullying, I promise.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0032par0058	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0033par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Drug abuse is the most wrong thing in the world. Of course, there's a trade, there's a guarantee. Whoever is guilty of this, is a soldier, a cop -- I admit it -- should be found, arrested, and even punished in the same way. I also want to say that special courts should be set up, special courts should be set up. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. THE work of TUBIM (TUBIM) is important work, and it must continue. However, it is a fact that in East and Southeast -- research has shown this, as well as drug trafficking in the world -- is supported by the PKK terrorist organisation, which is drug trafficking. About 10 billion dollars is also used here. Look, the speaker said there are skyscrapers in Ankara. My dear friend, then you can explain who the skyscrapers in Ankara are or who the owners are in the west, especially the owners of the hotels, and who the individuals are, or you can explain them somewhere else if you don't explain them here.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0034par0067	It's on the official record, ask the Ministry to explain it immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0033par0068	Yeah, I mean, that's one way to put it.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0034par0069	It's not like we're the government-- when we're in the government, you ask questions, we answer questions.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0033par0070	But the fact is, whoever's responsible here, whoever's guilty, must be identified. There's no innocence in smuggling. The PKK is a separatist organisation, not representing Kurdish people.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0034par0072	Let's have a referendum on whether the Kurds represent the PKK or not.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0033par0073	All 76 million are brothers. We will not give up 76 million of our brothers and one of our own, and no one will be able to talk us out of our 1 square metre land. We will not divide our country or divide our nation.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0035par0075	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0034par0076	Mr. President, the speaker has spoken to me about my person, and he has made my speech clear, and I need to explain.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0035par0077	Now, look, neither of you, either of you, actually, have ever made formal advances to each other.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0034par0078	It's not official teasing, it's unofficial teasing.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0035par0079	Reverend, wait a minute... No, no... I mean, there's nothing done by the Civil Code that they call teasing, insulting, hair, hair, but we opened the way for the best. Now, I won't promise the second person.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0036par0082	Okay, I don't want another word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0035par0083	Look, I repeat, I'll give you half an hour, and you'll see. Here, you just have to explain. I mean, I've had enough of this picking on you since yesterday.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0037par0086	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0035par0087	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0037par0090	Mr. Hatip, in the context of my speech, I am not responsible for providing information about the skyscrapers, the wealth they've acquired, the Finance Ministry, the Prime Minister's office, with the support of this state, with the support of those who serve in the state's official organs. We're referring to the government as a question of who won here: how many people built hotels in one day, how did they make their income? How many people's companies have gone through over a million dollars in a day? Let's ask the government for their information together. So let's ask the government for records of companies that are trillionaires overnight, people who are millionaires, hotels that can build hotels overnight. Right now, through this speech, and officially, I demand it. But let's just say that we support the proposal. We support this problem in a broad way and the fact that this research commission is really being cared for and that each party will select members who can work on it with courage. Look, everyone reads the literature. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has many messages to the world, saying: "Let the commissions come, let them criticize and investigate our structures, we are open to all kinds of audits." If we are to say anything, then we must prove its reality. So let's set up a commission that will really, really bravely explain, objectively, all the events that happened in that area. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0038par0099	In favour of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Mr. Yüldıray Sapan, an Antalya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0039par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on the agenda of the children's motion to investigate drug use in favour of the group's proposal, and I salute the grand delegation. Dear friends, first of all, I feel it is necessary to say that I feel that this matter should be discussed, not to be discussed, but to be talked about in a manner that will agitate, provoke, or create a polemic emotion against each other. Because I also want to make it clear that in order to understand this, to understand this subject, if you first think that your own child, your own relatives, is a drug addict, we have a chance to understand how serious this is. The age of drug use in Turkey is unfortunately down to 7-8, and unfortunately, as one of our deputies described, Turkey is a transit point. And I'm a citizen who knows the government won't allow it if it doesn't want it, and the responsible government won't allow it if it doesn't. So, I think the government, which criticises the drinking of beer, which is called soft drinks in many countries, should put that aside and demonstrate how to deal with drugs and how to take concrete steps. In Antalya, where I'm his proxy, 8-year-olds use drugs. I know 8-10-year-old girls who became a family business because of their families getting into this mess as dealers, where they became drug addicts because of contact, by packing drugs into the market. I don't want to mention the name of that area, which is a 12-13-year-old drug center, because it doesn't have money to supply drugs -- I know girls who sell their own bodies behind it. So, just to get this straight, I want you to think that this child is our child, and then we'll get serious about it. Look, I say this every chance I get, every time I get a chance to talk, the biggest problem in Turkey is the drug problem, guys. Do you know that 3 percent of our population use drugs at least once in their lives? Actually, there's a confusion here. You shouldn't say "drug." First of all, I think words should be used correctly in order to avoid this confusion of concepts. Despite its prevalence in use, it is far from meets the scientific concept of drug addiction. I think it would be wise to say that the most appropriate expression for drug use is non-substantive addiction, since its scope covers opium and derivatives. Dear friends, these illegal addictions initially give pleasure, but by killing brain cells, they prevent you from using your mind. Did you know that every time a drug user uses drugs, a million brain cells die? One million... in brain imaging studies, these people's brains are getting smaller and smaller compared to healthy people. Dear friends, as a member of parliament who carries the subject of illegal addictions seriously to the House at this time, I have tried to stress this issue by making press statements to bring the drugs I received from the floor and to express the sensitivity. And then I went on TV shows about it, and I tried to keep it on the table, and I offered the law on it, and I talked about the lack of punishment. So you catch the man, I'm a drinker. He says, he goes free. Then, that circulation continues. So I made an offer to increase these sentences, and we already know that this offer has been dusted on the shelves. If only our other friends and AKP lawmakers were as sensitive about this as we were, we could take down this bill from these shelves and legalize it as quickly as possible, I think we could start a more clean youth, a more purified youth. Dear friends, the problem of substance abuse is a situation that the AKP does not care about, but in reality, it should be very important in life and is reaching serious levels in our country. The rate of use of any illegal addictive substance in our country -- I just said -- 3 percent of our population has been used once in its life, and I'll tell you again, this is the age of drug use that has fallen to the 6-7. Currently, in 13 counties, there are 22 treatment centres related to substance abuse. I've offered you a law on this, and I hope it's brought up, and we're waiting for you to pick it up. The total bed capacity found in Turkey for drug addicts is only 544. And in response to that, the number of drug use is increasing rapidly compared to the years that have passed, friends. For example, compared to 2011, the number of drug addicts increased by two times in 2012. I present this to the attention of the operation. Dear friends, the rate of drug use in our major cities and deaths related to it is increasing day by day. Istanbul is the first priority, so most of our citizens who are drug addicts and have died in some way have won first place in Istanbul and second place in Antalya. I'll tell you something else that I consider very important is that our citizens who died in terrorist attacks are more drug-dead than our citizens. It's very painful. I mean, I think we should change a little strategy about Turkey's primary priority -- I'm always stressing it. If you remember, in the past few months, in a park in Ankara, during the daytime, it was reflected in the press that high school kids were having drug parties. Everyone thought this park was in the suburbs, as if it were the ghetto kids who did it, and no one had ever found out the truth, but I did some research there, and as a result of this research, I found that it happened in a park right behind Uður Mumcu Street, which we refer to as Gazi Osmanpaşa, Ankara. I mean, in a neighborhood this important, and in broad daylight, the fact that this sort of thing happened in front of the police in front of you clearly bothered me as a father of two children. Dear friends, wherever you go, whatever school you go, there are dealers. I mean, I'm asking you, think like your own kids, give me a hand with this. Every elementary school or elementary school and high school's backyard are always filled with such people. If you check it out, you'll see that it's neat, it's important, it's important. I mean, there's no telling that this drug thing isn't gonna knock on our door tomorrow. You can't imagine that our child won't face this tomorrow. So, today is World Drug Use and Trafficking Day. I'm glad to be talking about something so important on such an important day, but I wish I hadn't. However, it is our duty to address such an important matter, not just on such days or on certain days, but on every day, to make a solution, I think, all of us. On this occasion, I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0040par0118	Thank you, Mr. Sapan. Mr Mehmet Erdogan is a member of the Gaziantep MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0122	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, the drug thing is really one of the biggest challenges the world and our country has ever had. Of course, when we look at the reasons why this problem is going on, it's because you have a high illegal income. Illegal income from drugs per year is $335 billion. Of course, this large number in the world also has a field of motion. When we look at this, we see that Afghanistan is the largest source of raw materials in the drug. Afghanistan is a country that manufactures the raw materials of 90% of the world's drugs. However, when we look at the raw materials from this country, we see that it has traveled throughout history through Turkey to Europe and other countries. In the same way, we see that synthetic drugs from countries such as Belgium and the Netherlands are moving across Turkey, to the Mediterranean, to the Middle East, to the Middle East. When we look at the carrier elements of all of these events, unfortunately, we're dealing with, as always, terrorist organizations, along with the environments that feed on this runt. Of course, you can include all of these terrorist organizations. It's because there's a high income, there's a high rate. By the time we fight this, Turkey is not fighting as it was meant to be. It's not true what they say. Today, Turkey is a country in the world, in 2011, in the second place after Iran, in the fight against drugs; in 2012, the world is now the first country in the fight against drugs, leaving Iran behind. The drug movement in the world now shifted through Turkey towards the former Russian republics, South Russia, and the way to open the world from there became much more preferable, as both X-ray measures and drug dogs were engaged in a very serious fight. In addition, crossing through Europe and Turkey has also found the area of movement by shifting towards the Mediterranean. Now, today, the National Movement Party Group is proposing a commission. I thank you very much because it's important.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0042par0127	My rule.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0043par0128	My rule. I guess we'll set it up?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0129	And today is June 26th, World Drug Use and Trafficking Day.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0043par0130	Mr. Mehmet, back me up if you want.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0131	I support you, but Mr. Reshad, I think we've forgotten already. In 2008, the commission was set up with you by our EC PARTY group to determine measures that should be taken by investigating drug-related drug addiction and trafficking issues, particularly. These commissions were shared with the public and the reports. What steps have we taken today? What did we do following those reports? I'll tell you what we've done as governments. We've increased the number of AMAMEM, for example. We've raised the number of hospitals with 14 AMATEM. The number of beds increased to 300, up to 675 today, and we have now studied ways to fight it by increasing the number of psychiatrists in regional education and research hospitals established. Again, in the same year, when we were on the commission, even in Gaziantep, in my own province, we opened an AMATEM center, but we saw the lack of growing psychiatrists at the point of support of its infrastructure, and our Ministry of Health raised improvements and educational areas at this point, the hospital's thing. In this context, we are about to build a full-fledged AMATEM hospital in Gaziantep, with the support of private individuals. Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0044par0134	So, are we going to set up a commission or not, Mr. Mehmet?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0135	Brother, it's already set up. We have a report from the commission, don't we know about it?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0044par0136	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0045par0137	Didn't work out so well.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0138	That's not true.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0044par0139	It didn't do any good.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0140	They should have shown at which point of the report they were working, at which point it didn't work by now.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0046par0141	If a 13-year-old is reaching for pot, that means it didn't work.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0142	From 2008, Mr. Mevlüt, in 2008-2013, in five years, our brothers in the opposition saw a missing spot and passed it on to us, or what work did they not have?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0047par0143	Is that a thing? No.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0144	I'm telling you, dealing with drugs...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0048par0145	There's marijuana in front of elementary school, what's a bigger flaw than that?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0041par0146	Look, guys, that report said to increase the fight against drugs faster. Since then, we are the 1st country in the world in the fight against drugs, and we've come a long way to establish AMAME. My deputy mentioned it a little while ago, you said it was over 500, Mr. Deputy, he went up to 675, the number of centers is 25, except for the new ones. Dear friends, drugs... of course, I'd like to point out that our friend at the BDP Group has just mentioned that, of course, it's true. If someone, in fact, is setting up hotels at $335 billion of the drugs that I just mentioned, it should be addressed, but I'm asking my deputy to let MASAK know about those companies. When we were in the drug commission, I had my Reşat Right Deputy, and again, there were a lot of friends that day, and I don't want to count them one by one, I mentioned that Mr. Reshad was here -- because Nuri Yaman was in our commission -- we went to MASAK. At MASAK, we saw the location of a lot of people we know as businessmen or know in different adjectives but who make illegal incomes. They're all being tracked and detected one by one. Let's help MASAK, friends, so that's what I'm saying, it's a wish of good faith. Let's call these names, have them followed. These are already the threats of our children and our future, needless to say, we all agree on that. Of course, drug production, trade and use is the problem of the entire world's youth, not just ours, friends. Especially since 2001, as EC PARTY governments, we have been caring about the future of our young people and taking steps in this regard. It's already obvious that our young people, who are the future of tomorrow, are going through all kinds of advanced, modern technology and education. We are taking every precaution necessary to make them a healthy generation, and we will continue to take these measures to make our young ones healthy. Studies and measures taken by the previous commission have been forwarded to relevant institutions, and such a research commission is not required. I hereby salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0151	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0050par0152	Mr. President, after the commission, no suggestions were made.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0153	No, he didn't. Now, that's it...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0050par0154	But Mr. President, by giving my name...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0155	Yesterday, I... look... one second... Mr. Right, Mr. Shandir is sitting behind you, and yesterday, in a situation where everyone was talking to each other, he was angry with me for making such a promise, Mr. Şandir. Now, I listened very carefully...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0158	Mr. President, I've invited you to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0159	Well, now I'm doing the Civil Code. There's no bullying here.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0160	If Mr. Reshad has spoken in the name of Right...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0161	He didn't. No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0162	Have them bring in the transcripts and check them out.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0163	I'll have them delivered.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0164	Of course. So that's it, we can't have this place used in that debate between power and the main opposition. I'll remind you of him.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0165	Okay, that's what I got for him. I've given you the right, Mr. Shandır. Even if it goes to the records, I agree.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0166	But, I'm afraid there's no courtesy in saying that she's always been angry. So, Mehmet Shandir's anger will determine your actions?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0167	No, I'm just stating that I agree with you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0168	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0169	There was no bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0170	However, if Mr. Reshat has expressed the statements of the Right Way in a way that is of some other understanding, you must promise according to 69.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0171	No, he didn't do that, but I'll have the paperwork filed.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0172	Well, have them bring in the transcripts, then.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0173	I'll have the records brought in, over.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0051par0174	If you can't identify it with Mehmet Shandir's anger. There's no point in saying that every once in a while, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0052par0175	Anyway, I've given up.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0049par0176	Okay, fine. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Commission and the Foreign Commission reports where the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement is appropriate. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with the Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place, to make changes in certain Laws related to the Judiciary Service. Commission? Here. Government? Here. (x) 475 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 475 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On the whole bill, on behalf of the government, Mr. Sadullah Ergin, Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0053par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the bill we're going to discuss in front of you today is a bill that has been cancelled by the Constitutional Court, which has previously been drafted by the KHK for violation of the law on judicial services. On April 6, 2011, the Council of Ministers had been authorized to issue a legal decree in accordance with the Law on Law on Public Services, Public Institutions, Offices and Public Officials, to ensure Regular, Active and Efficiency of Public Services, dated 6 April 2011 and 6223. Under this law of authority, a decree of law was made and carried out in order for justice services to contribute more effectively and efficiently to the implementation of various laws. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you the headlines of a few of the amendments to judicial services in Code 650. Under the amendment to Law 2992, we established the Office of Human Rights under the Ministry of International Law and Foreign Affairs. Again, we had envisioned a study between our Ministry of State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work together and to conduct defences in the European Court of Human Rights by the Ministry of Justice and co-run together. Again, with the amendment to Judges and Prosecutors' Law 2802, we raised the age of 35 to 45, the age limit for transition from the practice of law to the judge. Again, Law 2802 was changed, allowing our judges and republic's prosecutors to be sent abroad for education, as well as the financial rights and obligations of those who went abroad. The amendment to the execution of Penalty and Security Measures 5275 has also been made to allow representatives of the institution and organization to visit the execution institutions, or individually, without formal or private distinctions. The Department of Justice has been authorized to do so. The same law, on the other hand, extended the decision that allowed prisoners and prisoners to participate in the funerals of their parents, spouses and siblings in order to find solutions to their human expectations, was also given the opportunity for the same degree of in-laws. Beyond that, there were different dates, different practices in various laws for judicial holidays. This bill was arranged to change all of this to ensure the unity and implementation of the same date. The amendments made by the 650 KHK were adopted and then applied to the Constitutional Court for the violation of the Constitutional Law and the law on which it is based. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the provisions of this KHK are outside the jurisdictional code and will be annulled. And I'd like to briefly share with you the items related to this cancellation. There are regulations that the arrangements for a judicial holiday are not within the jurisdiction of the law. The Council of Presidents ruled that regulations regarding the presidential council are not part of the jurisdictional law, and that it is not part of the authority law to organise the vocational education of judges and prosecutors again. Again, we had a clause on the education of the criminal execution institution staff, which was ruled outside the scope of the jurisdictional law, the Constitutional Court. He also decided that the clause of who can visit the prison and, however, is outside the scope of the authority law to extend the permission to attend the funeral of the inmates and relatives. After this regulation by the Constitutional Court, which ruled the implementation of this decision six months later, it was necessary for us to make this legal arrangement so that this gap would not occur before July 1st. With this draft bill, we are at your disposal to try to re-enact the non-constitutional clauses, which have been annulled but are not fundamentally contrary to the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out that the grounds for the annulment of the Constitutional Court are not in violation of the Constitutional Court, but rather because it is not within the limits of the law. In that sense, we brought these arrangements to you in the same way. The bill, which is now being presented to you and discussed, is all about the materials that have been introduced in the earlier KHK. This arrangement envisions paralleling court-martials in the Military Supreme Administration Court, Incompatible Court, Prosecutor's Offices, district administration courts, administration and tax courts, criminal courts, court courts and court-martials. Other than that, it involves the presidential court and the board of presidents' arrangements. Hulasa, this bill we have brought has been brought to your attention by the Constitutional Court of the 650th Criminal Court to make amends for the dissolution of the provisions left outside the scope of the Constitutional Court. I thank our MPs, who will contribute with their criticism, opinions and proposals in this legislative activity, and I wish that this bill would be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0054par0218	Thank you, Mr. Ergin. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Turgut Dibek.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0055par0221	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain our views on the entire Legislature of 475 rows. First of all, I salute you. Now, I'm looking at the bill: it's written right away about his transfer from the Council of Ministers -- along with Mr. Prime Minister's signature, you know -- that's why this bill was sent to Parliament when it was sent to Parliament. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary has just made a brief statement that we have filed a lawsuit against the Constitution as the Republican People's Party. However, when we look at it, there is no mention of the Republican People's Party, but there is a statement that only the Constitutional Court has been referred to on charges of violation of the Constitution. So why did we apply, why did we go to the Supreme Court and why did we go to the Constitutional Court for what arrangement? I'd like to share a few words with you about these first. When was the decree issued in this court of law, dear friends? After the elections, there was a 2011 general election in June, and immediately after that, there was a decree issued on such a rule of law in August, or rather a number of ministries. There's a basis for this rule of law. And that was right before the elections -- and again in Congress here, I think it was April 2011 -- the full campaign was the period when lawmakers were slowly starting to go to their districts for the election period -- which was based here. That law made a lot of arrangements in accordance with the law, government. I'm afraid you can't let go of this bad habit. See, even judicial decisions don't keep you from getting in the way of that. The Constitutional Court finds 27 articles contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision -- which I see here in the matter of 27 articles, dear friends -- to the extent of 27 articles. Mr. Minister says: "Yahu, here, finds it contrary to the Constitutional Court, but there is no violation of the Constitution. " You don't have that authority in the power code, so you're making arrangements without that kind of authority, and those regulations have been in effect for two years. Now, without your authority, there are some provisions for the judiciary, which we observe together where the regulations in the judiciary actually lead Turkey, where it leads. In a moment, perhaps I'd like to address those issues in my speech, dear friends. It's more of a Supreme Court and the Supreme Court in context, but there are some arrangements for the State's structure, technical arrangements, but I'd like to point out that the Supreme Judicial Institutions, especially after the referendum, have been the goal of the ruling party, the ruling party, you, for the past three years. The Constitutional Court was in on it, but after the building in the Constitutional Court came up with a referendum, you thought it was enough. But in the 1860s, in particular, the State of the State, the State, the State of the State, which has the same content, its structure, the same function -- we can say it's an institution with a hundred and fifty years of history -- the Constitution of 1924, the Constitution of 1961 and the Constitution of 1982, a high judiciary in our Constitution, not just a review office, but a very important institution in all three constitutions, a constitutional institution. However, regarding the State... how many governments... have 62, if I'm not mistaken, to correct my friends, but... dear friends, 59 other governments have served in this country before you, ruled this country with the authority that Turkey had taken as a government? But this Court or the Supreme Court has not suffered as much from you as it has in the last three years. Maybe in a hundred and fifty years of history, there's never been another government that's played so much over the State, played with the articles of the law, made arrangements to carry out their accounts on it, and never hesitated about it, dear friends. Maybe it's because it's too technical for you, but you've done things that are so... that Mr. Secretary or here, in the line of commission, maybe there's friends from the Supreme Court, they know everything very well, dear friends. After the constitutional referendum, we got up and changed the Supreme Court and the Court's laws with a Law 6110. It's always been said, I remember very well that last semester we were here in Parliament, and our friends at the Justice Commission know this very well: here are the files piling up in court and the State Department, and our citizens are being victims. Millions of files are waiting in the Supreme Court. Here, about 100,000, 150,000 files are waiting at the courthouse. This sacrifice needs to be resolved immediately, and these services need to be accelerated. We need to offer an active, active, efficient judicial service to our people. Such beautiful, fancy, magical words came up with legal regulations. That's what happened there. Well, the DA had 13 apartments, 95 members. What happened? Two apartments have been added -- as far as I know 61 new members -- were drafted by the law to be elected to the State Department, and the Council to work with the Double Committee. The files will soon be melted and this victim will be removed. There have been public declarations, statements, by our friends or by the authorities. However, I look at the years -- and I look at them -- and you think after these arrangements, you think that all of the files, or many of them in the Supreme Court or the Court, have begun to melt, have melted, these files, and the files that have come in, that our citizen no longer waited for so many years, that the files were immediately sent as a first-degree court or as an appeals authority. Not at all. So from 2010 to 2011, he handed over 197, some 200,000 files from 2011 to 2012, 207,000 files from 2012 to 2013, about 240,000 files from this year to the end of 2012. Every year, we face more and more files. Well, then why all the changes? By just increasing the number of apartments and the number of judges at work, what did we achieve by making a double committee, and what did we gain? Nothing's been earned. Actually, there was something else behind it, and I told them from time to time from this stand. In particular, the State has statements about the Supreme Court, starting with Mr. Prime Minister, from all the speakers of power. So look back, look back, this is the coefficient, sir, the Full-Day Law, and there are decisions that the State has made regarding such laws. I remember very well, these decisions drive us mad. He said, Prime Minister, that these decisions are ideological. He said that the Prime Minister, without hesitation, spoke his thoughts on the decisions made by the Supreme Court, with these accusations that went beyond the scope of criticism. And there is, of course, in the head of power, the design of this high judgment. As in many institutions in Turkey today, in the media, in the business world, the Prime Minister must receive the message from the body language and the tone of his voice, and according to him, we need to make these arrangements. There have been many arrangements with his understanding. There have been other regulations made under the law -- which I have just stated. Then, in the new era, after the election, we took out the third package of judgment here. This time, the third package of judgments has been made in a different order. In the court, we put aside the prosecutors of the State who were in that institutional state, so prosecutors, prosecutors, prosecutors, were taking important action. In all the files he looked at as a first-degree court, or in the files that came to appeal, or in the motions to stop the execution, they were giving opinions, no more, they were simply expressing opinions about the original, they were made. Other than that, sir, there was a Council of Presidents, a presidential board arrived; the presidential board's powers have been transferred to the presidential board. Now, those powers, of course, appear to have been restored to the presidential board in order to which the Council of Ministers referred them when this decree was cancelled; this time, we're looking at the commission, and this time, they've been transferred back from the presidential board to the Council of Presidents. I mean, let me tell you, our viewers who are watching us may say, "Well, what does he mean by that?" Dear friends, you've played so much that even in your structure and design, even friends can't get out of it. I mean, what are you doing in the Supreme Court and the State? A presidential board, a presidential board, that's not going to happen; it's going to have to, you know, sir, be more tidy. Which, I believe, was in the D.A.'s office -- when was yesterday, I think, was the presidential election, so Mr. President is leaving at his age, but he hasn't been nominated, dear friends. Why didn't he come out? How do you read it or evaluate it? So I'm thinking, "Ya, we had a lot of work to do, so we couldn't recommend a candidate, so sit down where you're sitting, and nobody should run on their own. There's a painting like that. So, the judges within the Court, the candidates, who had the right to run for office, the right to run for office, were not running for office of their own free will, they couldn't run for office, they couldn't vote because they weren't a candidate. Now, it's expected that somehow a candidate will be offered at work, and that candidate will be the new president of the State. Look, the way the judgment's been played out, the politics, the fact that it's current, I think it's causing us a lot of trouble. I mean, I've got a lot to say here, but I'd like to talk a little bit about what Turkey is going through today, especially in this part of the time. In the past few days -- yesterday or the day before -- a police officer, dear friends, as we've all seen -- everyone's watching the video. There's a video footage of a police officer shooting at a citizen, you know, and then our citizen -- Ethem Yellowsum -- he lost his life, and he made a judgment about it. Look, I think it's something we should all think about at the point where the judgment comes today, maybe it's a turn-on. We're monitoring the footage. I'm a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, and I don't need to be a lawyer. When an ordinary, simple citizen watches those images, with his conscience, there's an incident here, but here, the police officer is later referred to by the prosecutor for arrest, but it's called "No." It's called "No." There may be conditions for self-defense here. If I arrest him, he'll suffer irreparable damages. He'll leave him to stand trial without arrest. Look, I'm pretty sure that -- because I came from within the law -- we've been there, too -- that judge has been through a very difficult time reviewing that case. I'm very clear on that. Mr. Prime Minister, in every rally, the police have written epics, my police, my police, my police... as long as you raise your voice like that, without criticizing the extreme practices of citizens in any way, it's only natural that the actions of those police officers should be judged in such a way by the judiciary. I just told you. It's like the media, by itself, gets the message from the voice of the Prime Minister or from the language of the body, throws the headlines, does its part, does its part, doesn't bring it up, doesn't bring it up... we can see six or seven newspapers making the same headlines at the same time, they're saying the same thing up to the decimal point. I mean, I don't know where that's seen in the world. We are also experiencing this process in Turkey's democratic development, perhaps. But that judge forced himself into self-defense, forced himself to do it. There's no other explanation for this. We all see together that there is a police officer, friends, a police officer with a gun in his back, a gun in his hand, material in his body to protect himself, helmet in his body, right, he stays in the act, attacks himself, but we see the footage. I mean, did he use the right powers he was given there? In the end, okay, he fires the gun a few times, but he shoots a man in the head, he looks out for the target, and in the end, if there's a power to make amends or to make amends, if there's an irreparable damage, then our citizen's life is gone. I mean, is it possible for us to turn that citizen around? It's not. But, as it turns out, in your power, in the AKP's power, the judgment is being carried out, for some reason, for those who are close to the Prime Minister or the people who are on the side of the government. One minute, the defendants in the Lighthouse are imprisoned for three months, and three months later, for exactly the same reason that the police who killed our Ethem friend, our citizen, killed him, could cause irreparable harm if he is arrested. As for the reason, the defendants in the Lighthouse have been brought together three months later, for the exact same reason: Here, if the arrest continues, there will be difficult or irreparable damage to the defendants. That's why they're being judged without arrest. Or, I see, before that, there were policemen who committed these unsolved murders, or there were special operatives, who had also confessed to some of them. Here, we killed this, in the past tense. They were arrested, I think they were less imprisoned, and they were released. Well, dear friends, look, there are other trials in Turkey. Eight of Turkey's MPs are under arrest. There are people in Turkey who are treated for cancer and are currently struggling for life and who are getting worse because of the conditions of the prison every day, for example, a Fatih Hilmioglu.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0056par0237	Mr. Secretary, you can hear me, can't you?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0055par0238	Now, about Hilmioğlu the Conqueror, how many years have these courts... there are reports; 1, 2, 3, there are many reports. A court doesn't go out and say, "Ya, the evidence is collected. There's nothing he can do if I release Fatih Hilmioğlu from court-martialed after this hour, not clouding evidence, not affecting witnesses. There's no escape. We've already made legal arrangements. Here, we've expanded the judicial control measures both the Minister and the government boasted from time to time. Here's the court. I'll put a ban on leaving the country. Let's say he doesn't leave the city. There are arrangements like this, but this person is struggling to live, and tomorrow we may face irreparable damage. Why has he not expressed an opinion on the matter, dear friends? I mean, there's no such thing. Or the arrested MPs... Mr. Prime Minister has held four or five rallies, there is a name for the rallies: I mean Istanbul, Ankara, Kayseri, Erzurum. Respect for national will... these people are imprisoned in prison, and they continue to disrespect them... this country, the justice of this country. Why is it going on? That's the only problem with the politicalisation of the judiciary. For the past three years, our president has been coming from the bench here on October 1st, making his speech that the detentions of the MPs must no longer continue, and they represent the national will. He says, "The MPs must do their duty." He says, "The detention situation in Turkey shouldn't last that long." He says, "The detention situation in Turkey shouldn't take so long." Coming out of here, journalists catch Mr. Prime Minister on the stairs there. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President said in the opening address of the Assembly, what do you say? We don't agree with him, I don't want to do polemics with him, we don't agree with him. Okay, he's already giving the message, Mr. Prime Minister. Who's he giving it to? He's giving it to the judges there. Look, you'll do as I say. It doesn't matter what the president says. Guys, is there any other way to read this? Is it possible to read this any other way? I mean, why was it that these events of Gezi Park took place? The Minister's Council of Ministers, or the Minister's Council of Ministers, or the authorities, the Ministry of Interior or the authorities in the presidency of Arinc, had thought for some reason, what was behind it? Mr. Prime Minister says, "This Memet Ali Alabora threw a ίtweet, and he said in the "Gezi Park isn't just a Travel Park." Well, wow, what does he thinks. What's behind this, a coup? You've thought for seven hours what's behind it. So what he's trying to say is, it's not just a matter of trees, it's other issues in this country, you're interfering in these people's habitats, you're politicizing these people, you're politicizing the judiciary. So, Mr. Prime Minister, it's coming out... that Parliament, which is sometimes used to use the word "Gazi Parliament" -- that's right -- that's where the shots were heard in Poletlı, where the MPs at the time fought the Battle of Salvation. I mean, there's two drunks being said by the Prime Minister. Because of religion, why is it that you do not approve of the commandments of religion at work? The reason under that law is being tried. That's what's underpinning the whole trip thing. Syria, you've been involved in a policy about Syria where young people have no money education, or wherever they're trying to use their democratic rights, they're eating batons or pepper spray. That's what's underneath. But Mr. Prime Minister, he's going to a rally, and he's going to tell an artist that we're going to pay for this. Dear friends, how can judgment come to this point? How can the law come to this point in Turkey? Yeah, I'm running out of time. We'll explain our thoughts on other matters, but let me tell you, dear friends, this Law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it shows that we're going to shoot a lot of stuff anyway. So the Constitutional Court called it off, came to the Commission, changed it in the Commission, came here, you're shooting again. I mean, get your shit together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0057par0248	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Congressman Faruk Bal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0058par0252	Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on Bill 475. I salute you all with love. A decree was issued under the rule of law in order to make public services effective, orderly and efficient on the grounds of Article 650. If you recall, the House was going to the election at that time, but it was a meeting. The power of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to make law was handed over to the will of the ruling body, the Council of Ministers, and it was abused within the scope. Article 28 of Articles 28 of the Constitutional Court of the Constitution has been annulled under Article 650 issued based on the law. Now, this bill is in your presence, concerning the canceled substances. I'd like to share my thoughts on this bill with you. Dear lawmakers, there are 32 articles in the bill, nine of which are related to a judicial holiday. The forensic holiday used to be from July 20th to September 5th. This was a date set to allow cases to be discussed within a more comfortable environment, as Turkey should be an agricultural society. Now, the Justice and Development Party came to power, and it changed the name of the holiday to be first used between 1 August and 5 September. This time, he didn't like it, and his trial vacation for 35 days brought it back to 40 days to be used between July 20th and August 31st. Dear friends, this came out in 2004 and the years after that, with the laws brought by the AKP. Was that the right time, now they have to make the right decision, or is there going to be any further advice on a judicial holiday? It's probably been a bit of a mix-up. It's not just about the holidays of judges and prosecutors; it's also about their families, their children, but more importantly, millions of plaintiffs, who are waiting on trial, waiting on trial day, the defendant, the defendant, the defendant, the witness, sir, are also affecting their lives. So where is the activity in the ministry, where is the efficiency, where is the order? So you have to think about this activity and order in general. We have identified the fundamental and chronic problems of the judiciary in the National Judicial Project, which we have prepared as the National Movement Party. These problems... Mr. Secretary, if you would please note this, I've told you many times from this bench, but I'm afraid none of these steps have been taken. This time I feel the need to tell you again in case you consider it. The main problem of the judiciary is one: it deals with tools, tools, and technological improbability, providing a judicial service, such as by hand labor, construction by cart. Today, however, large buildings are served with cranes and technological tools. You also have to provide technology, tools and equipment to the judiciary. You haven't done that in 11 years, so hopefully, you'll do that for the rest of the time. The second basic problem of the judiciary is work density and work diversity. You have brought a structure that produces a criminal environment, creates a legal discrepancy; this has led to the emergence of new crimes, creating new types of crime and different types of conflict. He needs to fight this, the Justice Department and the government. The right to a fair trial is violated in Turkey. In our country, the state of long imprisonment has become a cancer, and this cancerous cell is encircling the entire judiciary. Today, there are prisoners or prisoners who have waived even the right to appeal in the event of long imprisonment, because until the order of the case files pending in the Supreme Court, the probation process is passed, or the possibility of taking advantage of a controlled right has been eliminated. Mr. President, the main issue of the judiciary in terms of defence is the lack of evidence, which means lawyers do not have the authority to collect evidence. The three-legged judiciary, consisting of the verdict, the argument and the defence, is missing a leg in Turkey. So for this to be put out, we've also prepared our original project on how the ability to gather evidence for lawyers in the national judiciary is used to be recognized by the court in a way that can be solved. The basic issues of the judiciary include staff, lack of court numbers. As important as he is, the staff, Mr. Secretary, his motivation is corrupted. The staff is in need of training. This education must be addressed on the basis of international law and carried out at every level of the judiciary within the scope of our local law and national law. Another issue as important as the lack of education: Today, judges who should not fear at all are afraid. If the prosecutor is afraid, if he is afraid, then salt is in this country. The incident of the Lighthouse prosecutors, such as that judges and prosecutors who did not make decisions as requested in private authorities, were driven to different places by verdicts; the hearing of judges and prosecutors, technical monitoring, even the investigations of family members, has frightened the judiciary. This fear has reached serious levels both at an individual level and at an institutional level. Mr. Secretary, I address the esteemed MPs -- Mr. Secretary -- because most of them are under his responsibility -- members of the judiciary do not have a standard of life that is driven by their lives, that is driven by what they see. Judges, prosecutors, death guard officers, clerks, bailiffs and other judicial workers have been at a very low level as of life standards. We have seen serious signs of this not being fulfilled in the past, and now, those symptoms are still in place. So the judges are stuck between their consciences and wallets. The expression is perhaps 20 years old, but the sentence remains. A lawyer is a judge. The word may have been spoken twenty years ago, but its value is still not lost today. Therefore, the judge, the prosecutor, the high court members, the presidents, the clerks, the editors, the executive officers, the bailiffs, the bailiffs; they must be held in line with the results of their staff, degrees and salaries. One of the main problems in the judiciary is the standard problem, the problem of documentation, the problem of automation, all of which, unfortunately, we don't see a single step in the 11-year AKP administration. I'm saying two cryptic words about this: one of them is eviscerated, the other is artificial intelligence. The word "Verisayar" is the Turkish language of the Nationalist Movement Party. The English word for this is "mining" in the English language. Those who translated English into Turkish called it everi mining. Because data mining does not meet its full meaning, we have named it eviscerated from the computer, and the essence of the judiciary's automation, documentation, standardization, reorganization and motivation projects is possible by bringing datasaparation technology to justice. If you need any help from the National Judicial Project of the National Movement Party, we are willing to provide you with sufficient information and support. The second cryptic word is "artificial intelligence." Mr. Secretary, half of the decisions made by the courts in Turkey today are broken due to the error of procedure, which means millions of cases. If by artificial intelligence we can support judges, prosecutors, law enforcement forces in the field, it is possible to investigate and prosecute with zero errors. We've also prepared a prototype example of this, and if this project comes to life -- hopefully in the power of the nationalist movement -- a most important service, the most important problem of justice service -- there will be a technical opportunity for millions of cases to be broken down from the Supreme Court and re-examined due to financial errors, as well as for judges and prosecutors, law enforcement, to be able to move materials to construction by handcart, if the analogy is in place, with cranes and technical tools. Of course, this is all about technological equipment and staff support that will bring nationalism to the judiciary. The other side of the issue is the constitutional amendment. In order for the judgment to be established as an independent, unbiased, unprivileged, orphan-rightful, prophet-slaying position, the appointing authority must be cut off. In this regard, projects on the independence and neutrality of the judiciary have been submitted to the Constitutional Compromise Commission for the nationalist movement, which has proposed the election to all judicial bodies with the theory system. Indeed, the Justice and Development Party of the Compromise Commission, along with the important admissions of members of the CHP and the BDP, has turned some of them into the Compromise Commission's decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's cut to the chase. Now, we said that there are problems with the judiciary, and that's in order. The main problem of the judiciary, in fact, is that in 2010, I solve the problem of the judge. That is: Before 2010, there were complaints about the judiciary, most of which were true. First, the judge makes an ideological decision. It was called true, as in the 367 decision, as in the headscarf decision, and as in many examples. The judge has a caste system. One chooses one, and the other chooses the other. There was a claim, which was true. ▪ His judgment has chronic problems. It was called the chronic problems that we had just counted, and that was true. These were supposed to be resolved. After ten years of power, the AKP brought it to its senses in 2010. I will solve them. It appeared, bringing up a constitutional amendment. The constitutional amendment has brought a thousand problems to the issue of the judiciary, and has brought one to the beginning, at the beginning and at the beginning, by the AKP itself. Thus, while solving these issues of the judiciary, the AKP washed blood with blood in the 2010 constitutional amendment and tried to create a biased judiciary, such as Jurassic Park. Of course, the biased judiciary, without internal control, lacks control of the control of the judicial mechanism that controls it, which instead of being a supporter of the AKP, has been a pain in the ass. AKP has come to its senses with the MIT investigation. Now he's trying to get out of there, and this time, the AKP is offering the Constitutional Compromise Commission under the name of the presidential system, which, in one sentence -- I can't explain it for long -- they want to build judicial organs based on the will of one man and by the will of one man. My dear friends, what this means is that in 2010, you made judgment a problem by washing blood with blood, and now once again you're trying to wash blood with blood, and not politicalize judgment, but become one person. Therefore, this path is wrong. In 2010, of course, it was the poison that destroyed a democracy, the lack of judgment, the lack of the power of the judiciary, the poison of democracy. You covered that poison with sweet ingredients, like a headscarf abuse. In the amendment, even though he had nothing to do with it, the headdress will be opened. You cheated, deceived, deceived the citizens. You didn't get enough of that, you abused the public's conversation with the martyred relatives, widows and orphans. You abused our nation's respect for women, abused the child's love, abused the disabled. We'll even give public servants a collective contract. You promised to bribe them, and you made them swallow that poison pill. Actually, it's not people, it's you who took the poison pill. Now, ever since 2010, the masses have become increasingly heavy and unable to absorb tradition's injustice have become furious. The sense of trust in justice is shaken. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors saw it as a threat and posted it on its website. All of this carries the material of a bulge of anger. See, that anger exploded in the whole Travel Park thing, just like it filled up the rest of the world. The AKP will not have come to its senses that instead of receiving the reaction of injustice, trust in justice and other practices in the events of the Travel Park, it is aware of the smell of urine in the Salam Square, and gives the urine smell as a message to the citizens. Then, Mr. Prime Minister, instead of understanding, understanding, and finding a suitable solution to the outbursts of anger in the events of Taxim, he follows a conflicting policy. On one side of this front, if we lure all the traps, we break all the traps, if we say bark, if we call them Fettah, all the traps will break down. Again, they are drinking in the mosque. They are attacking the girls with the prime minister. Such as the religious rituals, they are being followed by a policy of polarization, dissolution and confrontation. The honorable MPs are also Muslims who are in the Zombie Square. To whom do you declare jihad, and to whom do you fight? Isn't your religion their religion? Why can't you look with tolerance? Why can't you understand? Is it the Prime Minister's job to polarize the other side of the jihad index so that he can put them in an illegitimate, infidel space, or is it to be punished by his ear if anyone enters the mosque with his shoes on? Is it the Prime Minister's job to create propaganda equipment in stadiums, conference halls, squares, or to capture the person who went to the mosque drunk in his ear and bring about the state's institutions and organizations to punish him for what he deserves? The Prime Minister is not aware of his duties. The Prime Minister is unable to come to his senses from this crisis, which has come to his senses because of the fact that his sense of justice has been compromised, he has embraced the policy of confrontation, stubbornness and polarization for exition; here he tries to exploit the woman's love for her, love for the child, and mercy against the deceased, and yet he is using religious rhetoric to create a space for himself and abuse the citizens' religious feelings. This is not the road, so turning this way is the number one measure the EC PARTY and the government must take. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0059par0277	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Adana MP Murat Bozlak. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0060par0281	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the draft of the Law on Changes in Some Laws relating to Judicial Services 475. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we have stated that this method is not the correct method during previous General Assembly studies, as to the bill and proposals that bring change with one or two articles defined in many laws called the law. Unfortunately, the legislation brought to the agenda of the General Assembly during the 24th Legislature and all the legal proposals offered by our AKP MP friends have been described as law enforcement. I'm afraid the government has made a habit of this method which should be an exceptional situation. The risk of changing one, two, or even one joke of different laws is to break the logic of each law itself. This method is also a very wrong method in terms of law technique. Dear lawmakers, the 475th Amendment bill, which we are discussing within the scope of the bag, consists of 34 articles. 2 articles of this are relevant to the application, and 32 are, in effect, essential. Look, with the 32-point bill, what laws are changing: 1) The Supreme Court of Military Government Law No. 1602 is being changed. 2) There is a change in the Constitutional Court of Incompatibility No. 2247. 3) A change is being made in the Law of State 2575. 4) Adjudication Act 2577 is being changed. 5) The Supreme Court Law 2797 envisions a change. 6) A change is being made in Judges and Prosecutors' Law 2802. 7) A change is being made in the Law on Offices and Labor Licenses No. 3572 by the Amendment to the Constitution of the Law. 8) A change is being made in Penal Code 5271. 9) A change is being made in the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security Measures 5275. 10) The Social Insurance Act 5510 and General Health Insurance Act envision a change. 11) A change is being made in the Law on Education Centres of Prisons and Correctional Institutions No. 4769. 12) A change is envisioned in the Law of the Court of Law 6085. 13) A change is being made in the Law of Laws No. 6100. 14) The Constitutional Court's Institution of 6216 and the Law on Judicial Laws are requested to be changed. As such, valuable lawmakers are asked to change 14 laws in total. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the legislature of the law, which means you, who are now in the General Assembly Hall, will make valuable MPs. Since 14 fundamental laws separate from each other are envisioned, shouldn't they be vetted separately by members of the Justice Commission and then by you valued lawmakers in the General Assembly to evaluate all 14 laws correctly? It needs to be examined, because that's the only place we can make the right assessment. This law was discussed in one day at the Justice Commission, and the General Assembly will be discussed in one day, and it will likely be adopted by the majority of the ruling party. Dear lawmakers, who can review and evaluate 14 different laws in one day? For one thing, that's not possible for a while. Since it is not possible, we, the MPs, are making these changes. We have no right to say so. In fact, by order of the Minister, the bureaucrats are making these changes, and we're being approved; that's the reality we live in. In this sense, the method defined as "torba law" is extremely wrong, and is a deterrent of Parliament's right to make the law. We're strongly opposed to this method as a party, and it's a very difficult method for the government, as well. Because this kind of bag of laws is considered highly questionable by the community. Many wonder the purpose of a law to be replaced by just one joke or one clause. At a point where there is no logical explanation, the proposals and proposals are intended to benefit the supporters and to remove them from the difficult situation they are in. Therefore, this is not a way for the government to have positive points. Dear lawmakers, the changes that need to be made are not changes that can solve current problems and challenges in Turkey. As it is known, the amendments made by the government by the Constitutional Court were cancelled by the law enforcement decree. If this bill is not legalized by July 1st, the provisions brought with the decree will be lifted due to the Constitutional Court's annulment. Therefore, the government has brought the bill to the agenda of the General Assembly without much discussion. And most of the time, I believe, he'll get the bill. There's nothing we can do now but wish him good luck. However, I'd like to point out a few points about the bill, in terms of the transcripts: as the bill is called, it is known that the goal is to accelerate judicial services. One of the provisions envisioned by the bill is to speed up judicial services by shortening the legal vacation period. Forensic vacations are only shortened for four days. In four days, I'm asking you, dear lawmakers, which judicial service can you speed up with results? That's not the right approach. Again, under Article 27 of the bill, the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures (1) of Article 85 of Article 85 of the Law and Institutions must be allowed by the Ministry of Justice to visit the penal execution institutions or individually and to meet the prisoners. As you know, lawmakers are also subject to the permission of the Ministry of Justice to visit prisons and to meet prisoners. We, too, have visited prisons from time to time as MPs, but despite the Ministry's permission, we have been sent back from the door many times without being allowed to talk to prisoners and prisoners on grounds of disciplinary action. If a congressman is being turned away from a prison he went to, despite the permission of the Ministry, then do you think that warrant means anything? This is an expression of weakness for the Ministry of Justice, as it has caused a waste of time on lawmakers. This issue must be resolved immediately, obstacles to the lawmakers' ability to meet with prisoners and prisoners should be removed, communication problems between the ministry and the prison should be resolved, and prison officials' arbitrary disciplinary measures should be ended on the basis. A member of the Ministry of Justice must be able to meet with prisoners and prisoners in his prison without any obstacles. A person or persons who visit the prison after the permission of the Ministry of Justice must not be prevented from meeting with prisoners or prisoners on grounds of a ban. Dear lawmakers, we have much more important problems for today than the changes that are really being made with this bill. Look at all of Turkey, look to the east, look to the west, look to the north, look to the south, wherever you look, you'll hear the voices of people asking for freedom in every street, demanding justice, asking for peace. The government and our Parliament must listen to this voice. We can never establish social peace in this country if we give the names of those whose names have been mentioned in the past massacres to the squares, streets, airports, bridges. We believe that the Turkish Grand National Assembly should immediately address the problems that undermine our social peace. The ruling party is particularly responsible for establishing social peace. Government members and especially the Prime Minister's condescending, condescending statements, segregating, polarizing rhetoric must be abandoned. We believe that a more enthralling, captivating, controversial statement should be adopted in this process, not in the breakups, but in the common. When did feet become head? The expression is not true. We must remember that the Prime Minister's office, the office of the ministries, the office of the legislature, is not the contempt of the people, but the authorities to serve the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address a very controversial application of the government. As it is known, the third bridge in Istanbul will be named after the government of Yavuz Sultan Selim. The second airport on Istanbul's Anatolian coast earlier was called, as you know. Now, I say we make a fiction: let's say that a Dersimli Alevi citizen in İstanbul, Gaziosmanpaşa, or Esenyurt, who lives in İstanbul, bought a ticket to the airport on the Anatolian coast to go to Derim. This citizen will first cross the bridge of Yavuz Sultan Selim to go to Dersim. On the bridge, Yavuz Sultan Selim will remember that he slaughtered his grandfather. After crossing the bridge, when he arrives at the airport, he will face the sign "Welcome to Gökçen Airport." When you think about it, Sabiha Gökçen will remember that she was the first female pilot of Turkey to drop a bomb on the people of Dersim. Now, I'm asking you, if we have an empathy with this citizen, this citizen, what have we done with him? With this approach, dear lawmakers, can we bring social peace? We cannot promote social peace by holding large rallies against social responses. I have come from Samsun, and I am in Erzurum, and I will go from here to Sivas. We will never find peace with the message. The heirs of those who came from Samsun to Ankara through Erzurum and Sivas are in this country. Those heirs also broke the social peace that existed in this country, defending monotheistic mentality. There's no need for a new heir. Dear MPs, the prohibitive mentality that dominates the state from the republic's establishment to today has created serious damage to Turkey's society, and the country has been seriously damaged as a whole. At the point where we think that the outlaw mentality, the concept that restricts freedoms, is left behind by the final change of power after the 2011 elections, the new ruling owners, like former ruling owners, this time will be Turkey's loss again if it puts its own prohibitive mentality in place of the old mentality. The ruling owners must know that sooner or later, the true loss will be for those who advocate the prohibitive mentality. In this process, we need to look for solutions in mutual love and respect, not in bans, but in respect of the values of the groups that make up our society. In particular, it is a reformist approach, even radical solutions, that the ruling society, which has taken over the solution to Turkey's fundamental problems, has never created a different version of the old banned, corrupt mentality. The ruling party and the government must take the sound from the street correctly, go to urgent democratic regulations that will respond to that voice. At the point of peace and resolution supported by the overwhelming majority of Turkey's society, the government must quickly step forward and respond to hope in society. This process that has begun, together with its power and opposition, should be considered on the right basis. It's a historical process. An extremely important historical opportunity has been seized. Parliament needs to make good use of it. We don't think the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has the right to take a vacation without making this process permanent. With the beginning of the solution process, the government took two important steps. One of them was the creation of the Committee of the Mental People. Akil people have carried out an important task in keeping the public's pulse, placing the whole country in the province, borough, and district and the process in public. I thank them in front of you. Mr. Prime Minister, today, he's having a meeting with himself, and we're hoping that he'll consider the identification and suggestions of intelligent people. The government's second positive step is the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission, which aims to investigate the Social Peace Ways and evaluate the Solution Process, briefly the commission for peace and resolution. As you know, the Commission is continuing its work. Parties that don't give members to this Commission can never be credible in their request for social peace. I want peace. Peace is not required, it is necessary to act actively. Dear lawmakers, the government must immediately bring legal changes to Parliament's agenda for the practical solution to the problem. At a time when tens of thousands of Kurdish politicians are still imprisoned under the name......... in prisons where there is no solution to the problems of sick prisoners and prisoners, where the right to education is not recognised in the native language, and the unjust election dam is still in effect, as there is no use of a language other than Turkish in propaganda studies, the Parliament should not take a vacation -- I repeat -- in a time when the ban on our society is banned from our society. However, Parliament must take a vacation after the hopes that the peace process will be permanent for the public with arrangements for the solution to the problem. Parliament is only at this point that he should be given the right to take a vacation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0061par0318	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk. Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0062par0322	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the draft of the Law on Changes in Some Laws Regarding the Meeting of Judicial Services. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the laws passed by the Justice Commission so far, these legislations have been called either the amendments to some laws on the activation and efficiency of judicial services, or the bill on the amendment of the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court law on overcoming the issues of the law. One law came, with which the number of apartments in the Supreme Court and the Court tried to reduce the number of members; followed by another bill, the opposite, and this time tried to increase. Now, about this proposed bill, the issues we've discussed have been recommitted to one side of this bill. This shows, my dear friends, that in the process of the Justice and Development Party, Turkey's Grand National Assembly is under the pressure of the majority. In fact, the rules and methods that should be observed in the commissions and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are not followed, the method of making laws is not followed. I did it on the Adeta commissions, I did it. The law is passed just to get it through commissions, and it's done with the fingers of the majority in the General Assembly. In fact, what we're experiencing today is a majority democracy, not a pluralistic democracy. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister has made a statement, and we won't make him eat our police. It's been a lot of talk lately about not making me eat it, and it seems like someone's trying to eat it. There's no one trying to eat anyone, but look, in this case in Turkey, some of our citizens died with one cop, and some people called it the "extreme" lobby, and some people said it was from outside forces, some of them had the right to protest because of the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations and the Constitution. But one of them was Ethem Sarısulik, who was killed by police bullets. For this reason, I care: Ethem Sarısulik, who had been killed by police on TV cameras during these incidents, was long hidden from public opinion, unexplained; then the identity of this police officer was reported, explained, while we did not feed our police. My dear friends, this policeman is our police, and the citizens who use the right to protest on the street are our citizens, but the important thing is this: is it always discussed, sir, did the police use proportional or disproportionate force? First of all, it is not the police's duty to use force, but it is the police's duty to exercise the right to hold this meeting and demonstration, which is dominated by the Constitution and the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations. In fact, the police may be forced to use force if necessary to create conditions for the citizen's right to protest. Now, here, there are two conditions for using force before being proportional or disproportionate. Condition number one: is there or is there no need for use of force? First of all, this needs to be identified. Now, in these cases, in the world's public and in Turkey's public opinion, it's the police that are causing this to happen. Ethem Sardus died here, too. In the end, they were forced to take it to court over public pressure, and the court decides that the police, in fact, admit that they killed this person, pulled a gun out of his waist, said, "The victim suddenly fell to the ground," he said, saying, "What kind of fire fell into the air and was stoned by a large group of people, but when you look at the TV footage, there's nothing like this -- while I didn't see the suspect pull his gun out of his waist and shoot three hands into the air, while the victim suddenly fell on the ground, saying, "What kind of a man fell into the air, which suddenly fell into the air, which means he didn't get hit by a shooting, and then I didn't see him again, and I didn't see him turn over the screen, and I didn't see him again. But my dear friends have decided to stand trial without arrest, knowing that this could remain within the limits of self-defense. Now, I'd like to ask all of us: If such an incident were among ordinary citizens, if one of our citizens did this to another, would the courts really release it, release that citizen? I mean, as a rule, I'm not a man who advocates incarceration, and all our friends in Congress know that, but there's a double standard here. What I'd like to point out to you, my dear friends, is that now, look, Mr. Prime Minister, we're not going back to security policies, so we're going to follow liberal policies in relation to what some say about the process of peace process, some people call the process of dissolution. So why do you insist on following security policies on people who use the right to protest in the West? Apply liberal policies there, too. So, right, if you can't get anywhere east of the country with security policies, you can't go anywhere west. There's no way you're getting anywhere with state terrorism and police violence and police terrorism that mediate the implementation of state terrorism. Then why are you using police terrorism against people who are actually using the right to protest on the streets of Dikmen in İstanbul, Ankara Kızılay Square, Kennedy Street, I don't know, Dikmen? Sir, there were provocateurs, they were washing the light bulbs, burning them down. Well, don't burn it down, that's the police's job, it's the police's job to separate it. So it's the police's job to identify them from the Constitution and from the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations and those who seek to exercise their rights to use them, to provoke them, to undermine that movement. Well, this isn't happening, my dear friends, but we're looking at some very serious criticism in the world's media about these events. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister, since the press in Turkey has made the press dependent on him, now that the press in Turkey has been monitoring political power-dependent publishing policies, it seems that's how the Prime Minister is trying to align the foreign press. But he can't keep them in line, so he spits fire at them. You've always said about the European Union, as a friend of the European Union, that if we enter the Republican People's Party and other opposition parties, let's enter the European Union with dignity. When they said, you accused them of being against the European Union, but the European Parliament made tough decisions that were not edible, and now you're saying one thing to say against this: "Sir, these decisions do not exist." In the 2012 Progress Report of the European Union, Mr. Egemen Donated prepared an alternative report... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but even crows will laugh at it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0063par0335	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. On behalf of the Commission, the President of the Justice Commission...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0064par0337	I won't talk.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0063par0338	Did you give up? Well, thank you. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Ali Ihsan Yavuz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0065par0342	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the entire bill of the Law on Changes in Some Laws relating to Judiciary Services 475. I hereby salute the High Council. As it is known, the provisions on this bill were adopted under amendments to Article 650, but were taken to the Constitutional Court on the grounds that Law 6223 was in violation of the Law. The provisions of the Constitutional Court, which emphasise the basis of the provision of judicial vacations in the provision of the law, and regulations for the duration of the permit of those; the regulations made by the Council of Presidents and the Presidential Board in the Court of Prosecutors' Law; the regulations on the establishment of these boards, duties and membership elections; the regulations on the provision of the Court of Judges and Prosecutors' Court of Prosecutors in 2802; the amendments to the health insurance on the establishment of these boards of those bodies; the provision of the Court of Judges and Prosecutors in the Law of Judges 2802 on the basis of taking legal vacations; the provisions of the Court of Justices and Prosecutors for the duration of their occupational training; the provision of the criminal execution staffs on the duration of their training; the provision of their criminal execution staff; the provision of health insurance; and the provision of the Law on the Law on the grounds of the Law on the grounds of the Law on the right to be carried out of the laws of the laws of the right to be carried out by the rights and the laws of the rights and the rights. The issue here is that the Constitutional Court has decided to call off its decision to cancel its decision in Article 650, in order to ensure Regular, Active and Efficiency of Public Services No. 6223. In other words, the Constitutional Court's decision to abort is in accordance with the procedure; the Constitutional Court has not determined any discrepancies as of the content. The annulment of our Constitutional Court will take effect on 1 July 2013, six months after the decision was issued on January 1, 2013. This bill, which we are negotiating, stipulates that the Constitutional Court shall be re-organised before the decree of 650 is carried out, so that its provisions for non-constitutional judicial services may not be carried out in the implementation of any space or hesitation. This bill is largely based on the transfer of the text in Article 650 to the draft text. However, some additional developments have been made over the past year, including the needs of the practice. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in our time of power, as in every field, there have been a series of reforms in the field of justice, and they are still being carried out very quickly. Our goal as an EC PARTY is to make the judiciary more functional, to create a quick, efficient, and fair judicial mechanism. Of course, almost every government in the Republic period had the desire to create a fast, efficient, and just judicial mechanism. He carried it, however, but the purpose, which was required for reasons such as not to be complete, not to be systematic, not to be palliative, not to be tidy, not to be planned, just to be methodical, not to meet global development and changes, unfortunately, has not been achieved. However, in the regulation and judicial reform work during the EC PARTI rule, there is a system-oriented approach, not a problem-oriented one, is being brought down to the root of problems, a holistic approach to society's demands, is being taken into consideration in a long-term perspective and strategic approach, which is being carried on by international development and changes. And that's why it's possible for us to say that, in recent times, during the AK PARTI rule, a very important distance has been made along the way. And that's why, in a row, there are arrangements, new mechanisms are being set up, and judicial reform efforts are being accelerated. We've really done some very important things in the field of justice during our reign. They say that memory is damaged by a man named Nisyan. Now I would like to go back and share with you some examples of what we did in our time: What have we done before? For example, we founded the Turkish Academy of Justice. The Academy is increasingly on its way to becoming a scientific actor in the field of law, as well as the momentum it has brought ahead and into service education with its autonomous structure. The UYAP, the National Judicial Network Project, was set up. The UYAP, developed entirely by Turkish engineers and still followed and studied by many states, is a project that has won several other awards as well as first prizes among the United Nations Public Service Awards. About 170 courthouse buildings have been built in the last ten years. The total closed area of the courts was 569 000 square metres in 2002, while in the last ten years there were 2 million and 130,000 square metres of closed court. When we hit the percentage, there was 374 percent of this construction work compared to the previous one. Over the past decade, the number of residency courts has increased by more than 100 per cent. The Constitutional Court and the HSYK have been altered, and the high courts have been strengthened. The number of apartments, the number of examinations, the number of judges and staff has been increased. See, the Supreme Court has decided on more cases than the number of files that first arrived in 2012. In addition to the files from 2012, 46,670 files from the previous years were also settled. Thankfully, as of today, the Supreme Court is starting to work in the mail. The next phase will be when the district courthouses are in service, I hope. All infrastructure preparations for regional court courts have been completed, which will take place at the beginning of 2014. As it is known, the chief prosecutors of the district court have been appointed and staff training has been largely completed. In short, all preparations for the matter have been made, and this is almost the end of it. With the trial of the district courthouses in a short period of time, the appeals courts will be more relaxed and will, hopefully, become a full court of law. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with everything we've done and everything we've planned to do, hopefully, we'll be able to create an active, fast, and fair structure that is our goal in the judiciary. With these feelings and thoughts, I wish that this bill, with the votes of you valued lawmakers, be legalized and good for our country, and once again, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit02spe0066par0356	Thank you, Mr. Yavuz. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0066par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 475. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now I'm going to go with the question-answer process. Mr. Halaman... Mr. Gunpowder... Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0067par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in some media organs today: the PKK has fallen and is forming a Kurdish army. The government of the Republic of Turkey has no power, not a single military or police. Even grocery stores don't accept Turkish money. Cizre is in PKK's hands. Are the reports and allegations true? If it's true, what did you and your government do in the face of these events, and why did you remain silent? As Minister of Justice, what measures have you taken on this subject so far, would you care to make a statement? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0068par0012	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0069par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a process going on where you confuse people with the process of solutions. You said the mothers wouldn't cry, the terror would end, the terrorists would go out of bounds. However, since yesterday, images from Cizre have shown the impression that a different security unit has been established in some of our regions. Are there any investigations, any investigations of these images? Is the intervention of unarmed youths due to travel events going to be done to those in these images? In the talks with the PKK and the Imralı, did the government allow what we saw in these images? If the government does not allow these images, why does it remain silent? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0070par0016	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0071par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Did your government, which met and agreed with the PKK's terrorist organisation leader, leave a part of our country in exchange for that which Mr. Prime Minister Gezi Park has not been able to leave the country for North Kurdistan, while in Diyarbakır, Mr. Prime Minister Gezi Park has been unable to leave the country, and has been subjected to the pressures of PKK's people in the region? Has everything been followed and done according to the nature of travel actions, and has so far been tolerated knowing what the PKK terrorist organization has done in Istanbul and other cities? Do you think that terrorists who were said to have been lost in the streets in TV news were not caught on purpose and that the country was handed over to terror?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0070par0019	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0072par0020	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the EC Party Speaker, Mr. Steel, has recently made a number of statements such as that of those who went out to celebrate the events of the Trip. Earlier, Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc had this statement about other cases. As a Minister of Justice, what is your attitude in these matters? Is that politically appropriate? Second: There's news in the media that my friends have expressed, that traffic controls in certain parts of Turkey are custom-dressed... and that diplomas are also distributed in the area. Is law control available in all parts of Turkey? If this law is not guaranteed, do you intend to provide it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0073par0024	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0074par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, a Kurdistan Convention was convened in Diyarbakır, and a number of statements were made in the final declaration. Is that a crime or not, according to our current laws? If it's a crime, what do you intend to do about it? Again, with PKK terror organization, you said mothers should not cry and the process of solutions. Who has made mothers cry in this country for years? Is it not a crime for those who make mothers cry to wander through our borders or appear to be going out? Do you believe that there was a crime committed by the officials, the governor, the state's attorney and the government who didn't do anything about it in the first place? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0075par0029	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0076par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, in Iraq, the Iraqi Turkmen Front Vice President and Vice Governor's Vice-President were killed in a brutal manner, and there were more than 50 others injured. As a government, what kind of work did you do on this bad case, any kind of wire, anything? Secondly, 24 East Turks were executed in East Turkistan, especially in yesterday's news. And I'd like to know if there's been any protests this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0077par0034	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0078par0035	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it has been said that the PKK has withdrawn, that the withdrawal has been completed, that the second phase has been taken, and that the government will now do something. It has been said recently that the killer in the Imralı has sent you new demands. Is it true that your government met with separatist circles a few days ago regarding these demands? If that's true, what are the demands, the issues expressed in this meeting? Is it leaks to the press, or are there more and more hidden directions? In addition, is there a geography within the territory of the Republic of Turkey called "Amed" or "Northern Kurdistan"? Has there been a forensic investigation into those who used these statements? Do you intend to do anything as Minister of Justice? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0079par0039	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0080par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a conference was held on June 15th and 16th, in Diyarbakır province and at the conference there, demanding that Kurdish be recognised as official language, educated in the native language, Abdullah Ocalana be pardoned, PKK be removed from the list of terrorist organizations. We also know that the BDP presented a 25-point package of democratisation to your side. Are there arrangements for these demands in this package of democratization? A structure called Northern Kurdistan was created in part of our country? Do you consider any sanctions on this subject?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0081par0043	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0082par0044	Mr. President, thank you. Sorry I'm late.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0081par0045	Well, there's still time.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0082par0046	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question: Now, this law is 32 articles, but in Article 27, it removes the word "official" from the text. Before that, the Minister of Health had removed the T.C. Now, they call this Imranic process the reason he removed the word "official." So, like the request of Kandil, like the request of the PKK, do they remove the word "official" to create the physical conditions of direct communication with the person who lies in Imran? That's what I'd like to ask. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0083par0049	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0084par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, as far as we know, around 130,000 people are being punished in prisons. While visiting many prisons, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary, in the name of the tens of thousands in the current prisons where we mention the name of the tens of thousands while I visit Buca, Sincan, Silivri, and other prisons, why is the individual in İmralı privileged to complete their sentences in some way? If that individual does not have privileges, will it be possible for him to be transferred from Imralı to another prison in the next period of time?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0083par0053	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0085par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we heard you're going to build a prison in the central district of Çankırı. I want to know if there's any chance that you can give us any information on the quality of this prison and how many people it's going to be and when it's going to start and when it's going to end, because the citizens there, the citizens, they're waiting for an answer to the nature of it. I mean, they're asking if it's going to be half open, closed, what kind of prison it's going to be, and how many people it's going to be. And they have questions about when it's going to end, and I wanted to pass it on to you. Guinea, of course, it's a matter of your government, but there's an answer for the construction of our village roads, both the Governorate and the Ministry of Transport, both of them, and they both have answers that they have nothing to do with themselves. And in this regard, our citizens are in a state of confusion, and they don't know where they're going to apply. Very importantly... the people of five villages there are forced to walk 14 or 15 kilometers because there are no subgates.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0086par0058	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, many of our deputies have asked the same question, starting with Mr. Scholar Light. The PKK is forming a Kurdish army in the region of Cizre. Our 4-5 friends asked the same question in this framework, which cheered the newspapers. Now, I want to make it very clear that in Turkey, in Turkey, in Cizre, in Erzurum, in Antalya, in Sinop. Any action that means violation of our laws is investigated by Republican prosecutors, under the direction of the republic's prosecutors, to conduct their research on them, to conduct their case and to perform their operations. Now, from the very first moment that you mentioned the incident, the special official has opened an investigation file with the 10th article of the Anti-Terror Act, and the Diyarbakır Chief Prosecutor's office has requested evidence concerning it. The file on people who attack public officials' vehicles, cut roads, and break the law is almost complete, and you will see the results shortly. This kind of sudden action... I repeat, no one is above the laws of this country, no one is above the laws of Turkey, and the minister and the MP and every member of 76 million citizens. No one should worry about it at that point, there's no cause for alarm. The relevant officers, the responsible ones, are doing the necessary work right now.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0088par0063	Mr. Secretary, don't law enforcement have a preventive mission? There's a crime going on for hours.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0064	Of course I do. Of course there is, about that...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0088par0065	He's got the governor, he's got the commissioner, he's got the governor...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0066	Mr. Şandir, if you remember, the three weeks of action in Istanbul and Ankara were carried out during the protests we saw during which we could never accept, and the deadly attacks against the law enforcement forces of the state occurred. Public vehicles, law enforcement vehicles, civilian vehicles belonging to our citizens have been burned, destroyed, workplaces destroyed. Go down from there to Kızılay, and all those transparent sidewalk windows on the side of the road will be broken as they go down from the intersection of the assembly to Rediay. These are the sources of this nation, but you can appreciate that during those crowded events, the law has not been able to draw up their statement at the same time, present the evidence, and bring it to the prosecutors' front with a statement.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0089par0067	Mr. Secretary, it's not a crowd, it's a road check. The car's got a license plate, so they're checking the road.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0068	After a while, after these files were overturned, the court did the necessary procedures, some were transferred, some were arrested, and some were released for trial without arrest.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0090par0069	What's it got to do with Cizre?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0070	For him, I make it very clear that no one gets away with anything, and our friends have nothing to worry about.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0091par0071	We'll follow this one.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0072	Of course you will, that's your job. And we have to account for it to our citizens both in Parliament and in the streets.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0091par0073	So we care about your statements.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0074	A friend of ours asked a question about the talks made regarding this process of solutions. Did the government allow these images to occur? The government has no authority to grant such a permit. We cannot exercise authority that is not in our laws, our Constitution is very clear, and no one can use authority that does not take its origin from the Constitution. In this way, the government does not have the authority to release a job that the law considers a crime, nor does it have the saving to do so. Beyond that, at the end of the conference gathered in Diyarbakır, the question of Mr. Yilmaz is the same question as the question of Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. There's another Yilmaz, and I'm saying it because you're both asking the same question. Dear friends, you know, we've made changes in certain laws to protect the rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights. And the recent changes we've made are that non-violent, non-incentive thought statements will not be a crime. In this conference, it is their right to express their views and to make demands and to make democratic demands in accordance with these views. However -- I'm opening parentheses -- if there's a demand in that conclusion declaration, in demands, for violence, for violence, for violence, for society, for chaos, for terrorism, for anarchy, that's what prosecutors do. Again, no one has to worry about that. Currently, Turkey is a democratic law state bound by the Constitution and its laws. In that sense, no one gets away with anything and no one gets away with it. But there are representatives of our political parties in this Parliament. In the question of one of our fellow nationalists, he asked: "A few days ago, when you did not say a political party, you had a meeting with supporters of an organization. " The people I'm interviewing are MPs represented in this parliament, officials of a political party, co-chairs, members of the group.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0092par0077	Mr. Prime Minister, remember the Prime Minister's statement from Şemdinli, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0078	Therefore, as a member of the government, I meet with every member of parliament who serves in this parliament.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0092par0079	Didn't the Prime Minister say the same thing to the MP who served in Parliament?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0093par0080	Are you doing business on the Prime Minister's recommendation?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0081	I talk to every representative of the political party, listen to their democratic demands. If there's anything we can do to meet these democratic demands, we'll do everything we can to meet them. Turkey has been a founding member of the Council of Europe since 1950. He recognised the authority of the European Court of Human Rights to judge. Under the Convention on Human Rights is Turkey's signature. For those who demand rights from the Convention on Human Rights, why did you demand them? Why have you expressed these demands for those who want to meet the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights? Again, among the questions asked: "What is there among the 25 articles that the BDP has demanded of you? " In its own suggestions brought to us by the Peace and Democracy Party, some of the Articles of the Anti-Terror Law have demanded that some of the Articles of Meeting and Demonstrations Law, some of the Articles of the Political Party Act, be changed. In this country, haven't we been saying that over the years, let's talk about this on the floor of democratic politics, and let's move further and further into the areas where we can agree on the political ground. That's what we do.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0094par0084	Why isn't it explained, Mr. Secretary, that's what we're asking you. Why doesn't it go public?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0095par0085	It's all over the press, haven't you read it?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0086	Representatives of a political party brought their demands to a member of the government. What are the government members supposed to do? If he gets these demands, if he fits his party schedule, his idea of doing politics, if there is a place for these demands in the picture that Turkey envisions in the future vision, it is the duty of politics to meet them on the ground that we find common, it is the duty of Parliament to meet them. That's the way I believe it, that's our policy.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0094par0087	Well, Mr. Secretary, why aren't these explained? Why are they meeting behind closed doors?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0088	If you'll excuse me, I listened while you were asking questions, and you won't even let me answer them.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0094par0089	We just want it explained.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0090	Therefore, dear friends, there is a place above our heads in our Constitution and in our laws that we have committed to, to the goals we want to achieve, from the political institution or from the NGOs, from the civil society. Anyone can express their opinion in peaceful ways.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0096par0091	Is there any unconstitutional work involved?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0087par0092	But it is in Parliament's discretion which of these demands will be brought to life. Only the political authority has neither the power nor the authority to decide. So, these demands come in, we bring to you what we see fit, what we can sign under them. If the Great Parliament accepts it, it will come to life, and if it doesn't, it won't. That's what democratic politics means. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0097par0094	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement for him to go on the record. Now, as far as we can tell from Mr. Minister's response, a congressman under this parliament has described our party as being in an illegal position over a meeting of our party's executive committees with the government. We condemn the congressman who made that description. The Peace and Democracy Party is a legal, legal political party that debates the problems of this country under the House's roof and seeks to resolve its problems by doubling the number of MPs in the last election, despite the votes from our people, despite all the obstacles. In the following definitions, the approach to our party should be in this framework. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0098par0098	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part includes the 1st to 17th article.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0099par0101	Mr. President, you're making a mistake. We've moved on.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0098par0102	Yes, it's discussed in episodes, but it's written on... it's written right, I read it right.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0100par0103	You were going to vote for division, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0098par0104	Well, that's not what it was, so it's called talking to the departments and not moving on to stuff. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0101par0108	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the first part of the First chapter of the draft law on amendments to certain Laws relating to Judicial Services 475. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers continue to occupy the country's agenda as one of the biggest obstacles to basic rights and freedoms, the long imprisonments that we speak of almost every chance we get. Unfortunately, the courts do not apply the judicial control system, while there is the opportunity to implement and evacuate the judicial control system under Article 109 of the Criminal Court Act. It is a fact that for those arrested, a lengthy trial has begun, in this regard, that arrest is more of a punishment than a measure, while those who are not arrested think that they have survived. That's what society's perception is. Trials in our country continue as a result of investigations and prosecutions, not in a way that aims to achieve truth and justice as soon as possible, but in the interest of evac demands and the removal of arrest. Long - term and inconvenient trials are the most important issue of Turkish law. The necessary effort is not being made at the point of solving this problem. Thus, it appears that a reasonable period of arrest has not been observed. However, the long-term appeals to the European Court of Human Rights have been added to its negativity, although it determines violations of the law and rules compensation, it appears that judicial decisions against the universal principles and foundations of the law continue. The late decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are not taken seriously, they are considered only compensation, and the government's responsible for these compensations cannot be reached with the Human Rights Court's rulings, as well as the procedure of the coup d'état. I'd like to give you a current example: Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldız, our Şırnak MP, has been under arrest for four years and three months, but today the court has decided to postpone the trial until August 29th. Even though the punishment for him has already been five years, it is impossible to understand such a postponement, even though his execution is over. In Turkey, those who are now in the state of long imprisonment have been reduced to punishment, which is even more categorical when it comes to sick prisoners, because the biggest violation of rights caused by the long-term detention situation has been exposed to patients. Although this is clearly known by everyone, there have been some adjustments made in the final judicial package, unfortunately, problems in implementation have not been overcome. Even though they have terminal diseases, they are forced to live in prison conditions that are extremely difficult -- prisoners who are not on probation -- even without proper health conditions. Dear MPs, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned Turkey for violating the third Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, which violates violations of the laws of torture and the 14th Amendment, as well as violations of the laws of discrimination, due to the failure of the prisoners to be taken into custody because of a severe illness. The patient's arrest and conviction chart shows a severe arrest regime in Turkey -- a violation of the right to person's safety and freedom. In order to improve the health conditions of the sick prisoners in prison, the rights of those who are deprived of their freedom or imprisoned must first be changed as a whole to the standards of the United Nations for the execution of Penal Code No. 5275. After entering F-type prisons, the lockdown of prisoners is almost invalid. The isolation triggers the disease of the prisoners and leads to rapid progress. An isolation that violates human dignity must be removed from all prisons. According to Human Rights Association data and reports in 2013, there are still 411 patients in prison who are still heavily burdened, with a total of 230 people in need of emergency treatment. Of these prisoners, 230 will have to be released immediately. The remaining 181 patients must be treated immediately. Dear MPs, the Court of Forensic Medicine's unscientific and biased political decisions are one of the main causes of the situation in which sick prisoners are exposed. Coroner's services were redesigned in 1982 to carry out the official duties of Law 2659 and Forensic Medicine Agency. While this arrangement aims to address problems in providing forensic services, the Forensic Medical Association has strengthened central construction and has begun to lose its scientific quality, as well as its scientific attribute, as well as a deterrent, conflicting and underprivileged decision in the field of forensic medicine. However, the expertise is objective, technical and scientific, given by the quality of the service. The essence of expertise is that scientific opinion can be presented freely. The institution reflects the spirit of arrangements under the influence of the September 12th regime. The commitment of the institution is even more evident when it is considered to be the institution's official expert and the decision to suspend the release and execution of prisoners. Because the Forensic Medicine Agency is delaying reports for even terminal patients, and in their reports, despite the seriousness of the prisoner's illness, it can sign under decisions. For example, in prison conditions, the institution reports that patients who are seriously ill can either not report to them or treat them, such as cancer, even in the home environment, to be treated in prison conditions. As the Department of Justice data shows, heavy patients who have not been suspended due to the criminal practices of the Forensic Medical Association have died in prison or lost their lives a few days after being released. In this regard, this state-owned monopoly on health care must be eliminated so that the condition of the sick prisoners and prisoners can be seriously examined. The failure to accept reports from state hospitals, education and research hospitals, university hospitals, with all kinds of technical equipment, equipped with modern equipment, is the main source of these problems. By refusing to accept reports given by the hospital boards, this understanding that discredits its institutions is crippled in every way. This intensive bureaucracy, which is the victim of the patient appointed after the report was approved by the Forensic Medical Association, is the biggest violation of human rights. Mr. President, it is not in accordance with the law to expect a repeat of the same processes when the way of appeal against the health reports is not recognised and the condition of the person becomes more severe. Given the fact that patient prisoners and prisoners are in Sick Bay, going to hospitals in ring vehicles, waiting a long time for medical reports, these treatments and application times have turned into persecution for themselves. However, for any reason, such as scientific knowledge, personal blood, segregating practice, it is not possible to accept the lack of objection to a patient and a prisoner whose days are numbered. In the first place, I stress that the right to health is one of the most important issues to consider within the framework of the state of law, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0102par0124	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0128	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on part one of Turkish nation's esteemed law bill number 475, and I salute your grand delegation. Instead of the universal laws and Constitutional provisions of law, the bill we're negotiating, I know, no one else knows or understands, without considering different opinions and opinions. The ruling party, who has confused the transition of Parliament's legislative mandate with the authority to issue a decree under the law, is trying to correct this wrong, but AKP has chosen the rule of law over the rule of law and has a desire to establish and live its own law. The founders of American democracy are a wild lion to walk, and the chains that control that lion are the law. It is the political power that retains the power to govern. In the nature of political power, authority is a decisive element. There is an inversely proportional relationship between democracy and law with the power of authority, political power. In one country, those who hold the executive authority tend to become more authoritarian, their commitment to democracy and the state of law is dwindling, as their commitment to the rule of democracy and law increases, their ambitions for authoritarianism are imposed. Therefore, in order to establish and maintain the absolute authority of the administration, it seeks to subjugate other men, especially judicial institutions, always, siege, and intimidation. Turkey's tensions, dissolution and conflicts are also at the root of this problem today. The government, which has gained the power to govern, is trying to get rid of the universal principles of law that limit it. In the context of democracy theory, the governor and police of the government, who are the head of the administration, may be worth discussing, but if business is going to my court point, there's a lot of people there, a minute, what are we? We, lawmakers, have repeatedly called the Prime Minister from this bench, and this is not a good course of action." we said. We called it democracy, right, law justice, but we must have done it with kindness and decency, which the Prime Minister had never heard or considered. But the deaf ears, which had not heard us for years, were suddenly planted, when he began to shout, "Hop, my fellowman, know your place and do not cross the line." For years, the Prime Minister, who has been trying to adjust politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen, journalists and intellectuals, suddenly got scolded by the Twitter-based boy who was being scolded by what he had seen, suddenly became confused, as he called the Anatolian. The Prime Minister has been unable to maintain order since May 31st. He's making up an imaginary interest lobby and hiding behind it, talking about the conspiracies of old friends and allies. Who are they, why can't the Prime Minister give a name, can't show an address? The Prime Minister can't say, and I'll tell you at least: the Prime Minister declares the national and international capital that brought him to power today. Wasn't it just yesterday that you and Soros collaborated with the Open Society Institute, which Soros supported, TESEV? Weren't you the one who went after the Hariris, who were the extensions of global capital, after the people's businesses in the name of privatisation of the Opers? Weren't you the one who got the medal of bravery from the Jewish organizations in the United States? Didn't you and your mayors set off fireworks in broad daylight because we signed the European Union Negotiation Agreement under the statue of the Turkish and Muslim enemy Pope? I'm the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project. Aren't you the one bragging about it? Aren't you the one who pressured businessmen into changing the hands of capital and media outlets and propaganda for the bad guys in media outlets under your control? What happened today that you declared these environments conspirators and enemies? Why did these blue forces, which gave you national and international legitimacy, turn red yesterday? Tell your old friends why you are now enemies to the great Turkish nation: I have been drunk, I have been poisoned by power, I have fallen in love with authority. Don't be shy. I can't hear my people, I've gone deaf. I've lost sight of my nation, and I've become blind to my people. I have become insolent to God, and to the people of Turkey, who have given me power. You have to leave the ethnic and religious trial to divide and divide people. When you go to the east, stop saying "Turkish people" when the rally is in Ankara, and stop taking refuge in the shadow of the three crescent flags and acting hypocritically when you flee from the evil of your old friends.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0104par0133	Shame, shame! Mr. President, this is not a conversation, this is an insult, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0135	Because these people, especially digital youth, don't eat them anymore.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0104par0136	Mr. President, take it back. What's a hypocrite, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0105par0137	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0138	This youth doesn't watch your TV.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0104par0139	Mr. President, he can't talk like that, Mr. President, he's insulting me. He's not talking, he's insulting, Mr. President, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0140	This youth doesn't read your papers. This youth doesn't care about the so-called intellectuals and minds you've turned into propaganda machines.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0106par0141	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0104par0142	We return it, we return it with the floor! Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0143	This youth doesn't give you credit for your abuse. This youth doesn't fall for your lies. This youth does not submit to your totalitarian power. This youth doesn't care about your threats. For the first time in ten years, the Prime Minister's horror empire, which Mr. President announced to the public, was detonated by Facebook.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0107par0145	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0108par0146	I thought you said you weren't supportive.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0147	Virtual economic stability balloons have been extinguished, poverty in existence, unfair law, free democracy and impotent power have been deciphered.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0108par0148	I thought you said you weren't supportive.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0149	What world do you live in?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0150	Don't let the Prime Minister twist the issue and steal the mysterious, mysterious air. The issue is clear: The Turkish nation is now seeking the true right, justice and freedom of the youth itself. The Turkish nation is questioning the Constitutional Court, which created a banned Turkey, adopted the laws and became a notary of political power. He is questioning the administrative judiciary that gives legitimacy to the savings of political power. He's been searching for the rights of those who have been imprisoned for years without even knowing his guilt. It is the struggle to protect its presence and unity against the AKP's rule, which aims at the brotherhood's law, which people have been fermenting in a thousand years with its opening projects. All I'm saying is that it's not a political statement, it's our truth, I'm afraid. Let's all rethink with common sense. Let's rewind the tape for a moment. If Mr. Prime Minister hadn't said, "The law made by two drunkards" and insulted our founder's history after making the necessary arrangement for alcohol, we don't want high-headed youth." What if he didn't?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0152	Do you?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0153	I'm sorry if he didn't create the expression "it runs" in Anatolia, saying, "that barracks will be built" -- let's say the Prime Minister was stubborn, but what if the court had decided to stop the execution on the application a year and a half ago? What would have happened if the authorities had not been able to live up to the judgment of the judiciary, and did not make a fealty of their judgment and undermine the public's faith in the state of law? What if police, university and Anadolu high school exams were known to be irregularities, corruption and injustice, but those who did so had been punished, the rights of those who lost their rights had been handed over, had not been used solely for the liquidation and co-existence of the SEC administration? What would have happened if postings and elections following constitutional amendments had considered the sensitivity of the other 50 per cent of society, and the mechanism of justice had not been worn down by ideological debates? What would have happened if the prime minister hadn't told the public about the destruction project and left a lot of people with titles or people's respect and affections on the street, creating tensions with rhetorics that don't match the national values of the nation? What if the Prime Minister didn't have a paranoid feeling that he wanted my head, instead of acting on his instinct to protect himself and trying to tighten the ranks with rallies, what if he had a reasonable, reasonable, and tolerant attitude? Did these riots, these tensions, these resistances and conflicts happen? Fifteen-year-olds who've never seen a police station in their life, could they afford to engage?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0155	You've become the DHKP-C. You're not ashamed!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0156	Was a youth who spent an important part of his life at home on a computer on the streets by midnight, in the parks, in the mornings?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0157	You're defending the DHKP-C. It's a shame! You're defending a terrorist organization, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0158	Did he have nothing but a cell phone and a computer, a youth who didn't even carry his mother's grocery bag with a gas mask and a helmet on his head?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0159	It's a shame you're defending a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0160	Would children who have never been slapped by their father in their entire lives try to eat a cop's baton? No.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0161	You're defending people who loot stores. It's a shame.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0162	No, none of this would have happened. The balloon of the global actor, regional leader, quarterback Prime Minister Obama, who was hosted in the rose garden by Obama, was not to be detonated by digital children.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0163	You're defending terrorists who attacked the police! Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0164	The branch of the Travel Park tree has sunk into the Prime Minister's fat ego and exploded with a loud noise. The only person responsible for all this chaos is the Prime Minister's arrogance and ego. Although the Prime Minister said, "I have received the message." His behavior does not seem to have received a message at all. They drank in the mosque, and I have images of them; and the feet are head over head, and we will answer.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0110par0165	They didn't drink?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0109par0166	Does MHP accept that?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0167	We've been waiting for the footage from the mosque he's been talking about for 15 days, but we can't seem to see it. The Prime Minister doesn't have that image. A Prime Minister who thinks about the unity and social peace of the nation should not say that even if it is such an image.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0110par0168	Why don't you have this conversation in Osmaniye?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0103par0169	Because to say so is to try to dynamite the nation's unity through the spiritual values we consider sacred. The Prime Minister is a waste to this nation. He will be questioned before God. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0111par0172	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0112par0173	It's the Labour speech, East Perinchek.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0113par0174	He mixed up the speeches; he took the CHP's speech text.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0114par0175	If you had a stone on your head, you'd say it was CHP!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0115par0176	Now, Mr. Canikli will answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0116par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we've heard a really embarrassing, unfavorable speech from this House. It's a shame, it's nothing but an insult, it's nothing but an ounce of...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0117par0182	Tell me which one is insulting, and I'll apologize!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0116par0183	...we listened to a conversation that didn't have its share. Shame!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0117par0184	Look, I promise you. Tell me which one is insulting, and I'll apologize!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0118par0185	It's all an insult!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0117par0186	Name one.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0119par0187	It's an insult from head to toe. How can you call the Prime Minister a hypocrite?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0117par0188	I didn't call the Prime Minister a hypocrite. You don't understand what you're hearing. You check it, you look at the starving reports; I know what I'm saying, it's written here.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0119par0189	Look, what if I come out here and use it the same way as in retaliation? Is that even possible? You're here to represent illegal organizations, DHKP-C. You're acting as a spokesman for those who started an uprising against the state. What would your sole say?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0120par0190	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0119par0191	That's right. Yeah, that's right. We've watched a conversation where we've seen every illegal organization that's ever fired a gun at the police, opposed the police, hit and broke, and destroyed as many illegal law firms as there are. Is that what the gnarly base agrees to?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0120par0193	There's no such thing, get it right.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0119par0194	I understand correctly, the words are very clear. Why don't you do something with him, Mr. Shandir, please? Is that a conversation?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0121par0195	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0119par0196	There is rebellion against the state, and there is rebellion to destroy order and system. He's his advocate, your speaker. Is that your official explanation, your official opinion? Is that even possible? Of course he can be criticized. I'm returning all the insults with a double amount.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0122par0197	Mr. Canikli, no insult in speech.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0119par0198	But as many illegal organizations as there are here, there's a nationalist Movement Party MP, and if there's an illegal organization that burns, destroys, I really blame them, and I don't think any of them deserve it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0122par0201	Mr. President, the National Movement Party... if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0123par0202	I don't think he'll tie it. He'll say it.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0124par0203	It says "bindings. "
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0123par0204	It'll be a shame if he does.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0125par0205	There's room in the three crescent flags; come, come, we have room for you. Don't bring a fake leader to a rally like that.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0126par0206	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0209	Dear friends, my congressman never meant to insult you. By asking questions...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0128par0210	Mr. Chancer, don't do this, it's an insult. Let's go out and say the same thing. Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0211	Mr. Canikli, the congressman himself states: I don't mean to insult you, put whatever sentence there is to insult you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0128par0212	The word that comes out of your mouth is important. For God's sake! Let's go out, and I'll use the same words to give a speech like that, see what you have to say.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0213	Sir, no. From the transcripts...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0128par0214	Oh, please, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0215	Mr. Canikli, look, as the National Movement Party, we have strongly criticised the insult, the insult, every time here.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0129par0216	Mr. Shandir, are you behind the conversation?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0217	Sir, give me a minute, brother. So let's all read the speech together. Our friend spoke by asking questions. You get up, you answer questions.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0130par0219	How will you answer the insult, Mr. Chancer?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0220	Mr. Canikli, you answer questions. My friend never meant to insult me, and so does he. The National Movement Party's assessment of travel events has been carried out by Mr. President General and has been widely appreciated by Turkey.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0130par0221	I know, I know. We appreciate it, too.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0131par0222	That's why we're surprised.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0223	Now, it's not your place to accuse my speaker friend of being the DHKP-C. You did the real insult, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0130par0224	For God's sake, don't!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0225	Dear friends, yes, Turkey is going through a very bad time today after ten years of AKP power. It's obvious what we say about travel events, but you have to do it properly, Mr. Canikli. This is Turkey, and this is Turkey that you're running. You need to say something about that.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0132par0226	That's Cizre, Cizre!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0227	When you can't answer that, Mr. Canikli, it's not for you to stand up and accuse Mr. Canikli of what the congressman said about the travel events. Yes, this is Turkey, which you led. Look...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0133par0229	There's a huge difference between the evaluation of Mr. Bahçeli and your congressman's speech.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0230	Let's go through it together, and we'll look at the congressman's speech together.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0134par0231	Do you agree with that speech or not?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0232	If there's any insult...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0135par0234	It's on the record, Your Honor. It's on the record.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0127par0235	Look, let's review the transcripts together, and if there's an insult, it'll come out, and I'm sorry here, but there's no insult.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit03spe0136par0236	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. I'll give the merger ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0136par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 475. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0013	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to announce our views on the Republican People's Party's Party on the first chapter of Bill 475, but first, before we consider the bill, I would like to offer my opinion on some of the issues on our agenda. The reason I brought these flowers was because on June 22nd, people gathered there at 1900, to commemorate Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, Abdullah Generous, Ethem Sarısulik and police officer Mustafa Sari. They all had carnations. As you can see, these carnations don't involve anything violent in any way. These are, as we all know, symbols of peace and perhaps sadness. There people were about to express their feelings, honor those people, and reminisce about the people who lost their lives because of the events at the Travel Park. But, unfortunately, on that day, on 22 June 2013, when there was no outbursts, people in any way said to the police, not to the surrounding buildings, not to any other place, but to the police there: 'You are occupying the area of the people, clear the area. Now, aren't the people there? What do you mean by "people"? Couldn't they be tolerated if they were there peacefully to remember the people who were in pain? If they're expressing their demands for freedom, their demands for democracy, and their demands that they no longer want to be ruled by dictatorship in this country, isn't that the most natural right? Mr. Minister just said: "Any opinion that does not involve violence can be expressed." Was it violent to perform there with carnations, but the police attacked there first with pressured water, then with gasses, then with batons? There were women, there were children, there were old people, there were disabled people, there were all attacked. Because on that day, people went off with the idea that there would be a reunion, that there wouldn't be any attacks, that they went off with their children, and they were exposed to that gas, that violence, that disproportionate and illegal police violence. That's why these people won't shut up, that's why you can't shut up this youth, so you can't stop this public movement. If you spray gas, water on the innocentst demonstrations, if the police attack with the baton, the police also gave the instructions. If the Prime Minister says so, then people won't shut up, you won't shut up, you won't shut up. I'd like to mention one more thing: the cop who killed Ethem Sarısululuk was released yesterday, subject to judicial control and released. The reason is, I read the judge's alibi, and I got it from the lawyer friend, who says he can stay within the limits of self-defense. If you have looked, if you have looked at the public videos, the supervisor says that if you have bothered to read this file -- exactly as I instructed the police to withdraw, and I have taken every precaution for them to withdraw. But this police officer, the cop who killed Ethem Sarısululuk, is putting his shield down and leaving without the commander's instructions to withdraw, and he's heading towards the demonstrators, who are lying on the ground, and he's starting to kick out the protestor who's lying on the ground, who's lying on the ground because of water and gas. So the people there are reacting, and there's no obstacle behind the police -- if you follow the video -- there's a chance that the demonstrators can go, and if they're coming at him, they can get away. He doesn't do it, he doesn't back off, he doesn't listen to his superior's orders, and then he pulls his gun and fires it. If you look at the videotapes there, it's not like he got a rock or anything, and he didn't shoot into the air or anything. Directly, with hatred and hatred, he aims at the hatred and hatred created and tightens his weapon against Ethem Sarsulik and causes his death.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0138par0017	Dilek Haným, you're interfering with the jurisdiction. Don't interfere with the judgment.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0018	Now, if we call it self-defense, we all know what the limits of self-defense are. If he can't survive otherwise, if he's also a police officer, instead of shooting into the air, I mean, if he's shooting at people, if he's doing this on purpose, it's killing people on purpose. You can't call it self-defense.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0138par0019	Is it right for you to talk about judgment?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0020	At the next stage, Bulent Arinc said that he remained within the limits of self-defense. When he said it, there was no interference in the judiciary, when we said it, my friends.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0139par0021	That's intervention.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0138par0022	That's intervention.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0023	I advise you to be a little objective. If such decisions are made after this, if these decisions are made by the judiciary that you have politicalized, I can now kill every cop who comes in front of me, piss me off, or piss me off. After that, you will never be able to stop the violence of the police in the demonstrations from firing a gun. We're afraid we're going to have to go through this, and we think this cop should be arrested again, tried for manslaughter on purpose. That's the only way to stop it. I will investigate the responsible. You can only prevent these acts of violence by pulling your hand over this judgment by making it really necessary, not by making it up to people in a fabricated way. I also want to tell you that after these Gezi Park events, Mr. Cemil Cicek, who, because of your lack of control over public movements, implied against this spontaneous and dictatorship movement, did the same thing, because you could not prevent the growing public movement of Erdogan's oppressive system, behind which interest lobby, behind which you said the Republican People's Party had to be shut down, and after that, you said the Republican People's Party had to shut down, Mr. Cemil Cicek, the President of this Assembly, Mr. Cemil Cicek, did the same thing, and Mr. Prime Minister did the same thing, because you couldn't stop the People't stop the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0140par0025	You're not on the committee, you can't talk about the law.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0026	What kind of democracy is that? What kind of approach is that? We're protesting this strongly. No one can afford to shut down the Republican People's Party, which is the founding philosophy of this country like the Republican People's Party. For one thing, you're not supposed to even think about it, and you're not even supposed to say it. (HPP) Instead, the AKP, which should be shut down, if closed, should be shut down, should be shut down, rather than the AKP that has caused so many acts of violence.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0140par0027	You're not on the committee, you can't talk about the law.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0028	Besides, there are memorial events in the coming days for the 20th anniversary of the July 2nd Sivas massacre. On July 2, 1993, at the Madimak Hotel, people were burned there, burned alive, at 35 lives, because of their thoughts or religious understanding.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0141par0029	Who was in power?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0030	Those 35 lives, the ones who made it real, unfortunately, never showed up. I'm afraid that Madımak Hotel wasn't turned into a museum.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0142par0031	You were in charge.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0032	So, look, one of the reasons for these carnations is that 35 people died there, and they weren't accounted for.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0143par0033	You were in charge then.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0034	I'd like to say that the reason why this is unaccounted for is because of the AKP's power, in fact, the statute of limitations. In this country, the Prime Minister is almost trying to make things like that in Sivas, separating people as Alevi-Sunni...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0144par0035	Dilek Haným, what was the law?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0036	... 50 percent of the people are on my side and others are on my side, separated by Kurd-Turk, the Prime Minister is making that distinction.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0145par0037	You're saying all this backwards.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0038	As a result of the Prime Minister's provocation, there was an incident when the Rizze case began.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0145par0039	We put it together, you separate it.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0040	The people of the Ataturcist Thought Society were subjected to a lynching attempt because they wanted to hold a press conference in Rize, where they were trapped in association buildings for six and a half hours. If the Republican People's Party hadn't interfered with that incident with our president, our group's vice president, and our president, if it hadn't been discussed with the governor in such a harsh manner as it should have been... 30 police officers and a thousand people could have been stopped, Governor, we've stopped it. Look, we want you to see what happens when you get into these things, when you turn people on. Once again, we don't want events like July 2nd to happen, and in this country, the creation of a separate region of this country, called Northern Kurdistan.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0146par0042	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0043	...or as a new police force is being formed, like this kind of...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0146par0044	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0147par0045	Dilek Haným, we're against violence. You can't say it.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0046	...that's when you will destroy the peace in this country...
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0147par0047	You can't say, "We don't advocate violence." Why can't you say it?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0148par0048	Dilek Haným, you shouldn't have picked the roses.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0049	These flowers are for four of our people, our martyrs, and 35 of our lives who died in the events of the Taxi Travel Park, and for 35 of our lives who were murdered on July 2, 1993 in Sivas.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0149par0050	Come on, you'll be on the news tonight.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0137par0051	I leave it here in the name of respect. I hope these flowers remind you of the voice of your conscience. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0150par0054	Thank you. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0151par0056	What will you say to your deputy who says, "We have avenged the police"?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0152par0057	Look, Mr. Mehmet gave you the carnations.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0058	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0154par0059	Give me the flowers. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0062	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter of Law 475. I salute your high council. The AKP sees power as a success to change many laws. It's a very wrong perception. The most important duty of this state is to ensure justice is right and timely. Justice is the foundation of property. This is the state of the country. The rest of the state depends on our success in justice. In every law-enforcement year, five or ten judicial packages and various pardons are not granted justice. For justice to be done, you have to make laws that are permanent, fair, and satisfying to everyone, and the law is not made according to the wind. And in the course of justice, you will ignore the House, and you will regulate justice with the ordinance of the law; it is very grave and it is a state that ignores Parliament. Moreover, the decree you have made will be revoked by the Supreme Court of your own hand, and you will have to renegotiate this package today. Now, you'll bring a package for repairs. You can't solve the problems of the judiciary by prolonging or shortening a week's legal vacation. Today, the main problem of the judiciary is the lack of confidence in the judiciary. This is the work of AKP power. The second problem is you're making it difficult to reach judgment. You've closed the courthouse in over 100 districts. The third problem is that the trial lasts a long time. The fourth problem is the independence of the judiciary. I mean, the ruling and prosecutors don't see the nevruz rally in Diyarbakır, but they're always scratching so they don't have to finish their trip. Speaking of travel events, of course, everyone's considered it on their own front. In fact, the picture that emerged in the traveling events is the latest of the AKP. When the AKP came to power, most 17 - year - olds involved in the Trip events had not even started school. Put your hat in front of you and read the travel events correctly. You raised this generation, they come up against you with stones and sticks. You can't stop these kids with police, rocks, sticks, gas, peppers; try to understand these kids.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0155par0070	The kid or the provocateur?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0071	He's got three provocateurs in him, 300 kids. If you don't catch those three provocateurs, it's your failure.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0155par0072	Is it the boy who burns, plunders, kills?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0073	The mission of the MIT is not to negotiate with the PKK; the task of the MIT is to expose these provocateurs. Don't waste your time here.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0155par0074	The boy who burned the Turkish flag?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0075	You tricked the nation into thinking that the PKK had withdrawn from the country, but the PKK had just revealed the photos shown by our deputy chairman. The KCK has established and trained self-security with the PKK, and you ignore them at all. You're just looking at the provocateurs in the travel events, and look in the mirror a little bit.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0155par0076	You call them kids!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0077	There are hundreds of 17-year-olds among them, and you still don't see them?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0155par0078	The boy who burned the Turkish flag?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0156par0079	Please don't yell at each other!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0080	Where were you when there were rallying without the Turkish flag?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0155par0081	The kid who pulled a gun on the cop?
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0082	Leave him alone, tell them to others!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0157par0083	Don't yell at each other!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0155par0084	And you say "kids"!
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0153par0085	Again, the establishment of a tent court in Habur is also your work, and the trust in the judiciary has been undermined. In our country, everyone is being brought to justice, and you bring justice to the terrorists. Many generals, journalists, were arrested for no reason, and they were imprisoned for months without even preparing the indictment; it undermined their confidence in the judiciary. For the restoration of trust in the judiciary, the AKP has to stop saying "I know everything." He has to learn to make law with common sense. We get 50 percent of the vote, we do what we want. You have to get rid of the logic. 50% of the vote wasn't given to you to do what you wanted, it was given to you to do the right thing. Get it together, get it over with, vanity is a dangerous thing. Let's rebuild a structure that will restore the independence of the judiciary. Justice is needed for everyone, and remember, you'll need it very soon. Let's correct and resolve the problems of all judicial employees, especially the judge, prosecutors. Let's put an end to all the wrongs that cause the speed of judgment, to justice in the time of justice, and justice in the time of judgment is not justice. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0158par0089	Thank you. Mr. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0159par0092	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 475th Amendment bill. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the judiciary, we're discussing the need for improvement in the judiciary. We're all complaining about the functioning of the judiciary, and we want reforms, and we're right. Yeah, we can reform the judiciary, fix things. And how will we establish justice? But how do we clear our consciences? How, though, will we account for Ethhem Sarsuluk? How do we measure the value of lost lives? Unfortunately, the judgment doesn't cover some wounds. I ask you, what good is a judgment without conscience and justice? From the book, from the surgical mask, from the speech of two friends, a judgment that creates an organization that doesn't even see children being raped. The judge, who couldn't arrest the cop who killed Ethem Sarısülük, has tried a young man for months because he put the bag on him. I ask you, where in the world are we going to find justice in a system like this? He who sees them and does not feel sorry for them, either his conscience is blackened or he has no sense of justice. I don't want to be unfair, it's not just the judicial system. Wherever you pull a rope, we live in a system that's been blown out of proportion. Dear lawmakers, it would be unfair to expect more from a system of executions that can instruct the judiciary. We live in a system where in closed garages dozens of cops can beat young people to death, throw gas bombs at hospitals. In one month, 150,000 gas flares can be bored to the people of this country. Lawyers are dragged out of the courthouse, and the prosecutor allows it. Young girls can be stripped naked of human dignity, and the police of this country are doing it, the police of this country are doing it to the people of this country, and even more painfully, you've written "Destan" to those who did it. Dear MPs, there is a way of separating what is gathered in a square in this country from what is called a national will, as well as what is gathered in another square. ▪ Who are they called? Are they enemies? Who has the right to make such a distinction? If the people are leaving, they -- these, the feet -- we really have a serious problem. These are the young men of this country, who are accused of treason, who are called these, the future of all of us. Rest assured, these youths love them as much as those who separate them from them. These young men, called the traitor of the state, are the ones who will say the last words in the most beautiful place in history.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0160par0097	You'll plunder the whole place, and then there'll be the most beautiful place.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0159par0098	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in this country, someone has suffered a great deal, because they've been replaced by others, and they've suffered a great deal. It must not be forgotten that the alternative is a very dangerous trap. It's not just for the other one, it's for all of us. Others do not bring peace, they do not bring brotherhood, and all who live in this ancient geography know the truth. They - we all know that saying these things can cause deep and inhospitable wounds. We need a country to live with honor, not to replace it. We need a country that we can call our identities, where no one is ignored, discriminated, and we can be proud of our identities. We need the language of peace. We need the language of carnations.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0160par0100	You're defending violence for him.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0159par0101	In the last month, young people have shown us that this language can also exist, that a different world is possible. I say we listen to that voice, to our future, and not waste it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit04spe0161par0104	Thank you, Mr. Little. Talks on chapter one are complete. No questions, no answers, we're done. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-26sit05spe0161par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 475. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with Pan-Europe-Akdeniz Preferenced Laws on the Approvement of the Regional Convention. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Covenant Act between the Government of Turkey and the Romanian Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, since it is clear that the commission will not be found after this, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (June 27th 2013) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night.
