tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 124th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Münir Kutluata, the Sakarya MP who asked about the environmental and health problems in Sakarya. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the important issues in Sakarya. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, in honor of the 92nd anniversary of Sakarya's deliverance from the enemy's occupation, I remember the heroes who defied the enemy with respect, mercy, and gratitude. Congratulating my Sakaryan countrymen, who are their descendants. Sakarya is a province of importance in all the sectors of the economy. His special position in the Marmara Region had made this province an important industrial city of earlier times. Its ownership of productive farmland has consistently increased its importance in agriculture. Its continued growing and dynamic population had provided a significant place in the service industry for Sakarya since then, but unfortunately, all of its properties have been greatly erosiond recently. Sakarya is one of the provinces that have had to experience the radical distortions of the Turkish economy and social structure. While Sakarya was an important industrial centre before the AKP's rule, it has now become a province that has been flooded by Istanbul and Kopeeli, and has been subjected to the abuse of dirty industries that cannot be found in other parts of Turkey. Unfortunately, we also see that this dirty industry interest is carried out within the framework of a political host. Sakarya is now a region in which, as in the example of Karasu Darrakır, the cement plant can be built on its settlement; as in the case of the willow, it has been exposed to massive environmental destruction by attempts to build cycle plants on agriculture and mera land. With all the challenges facing the manufacturing industry in the province, the looting of public natural resources appears to be very common; the quarry fuel is an example of this. The village of Sapanca Yanık was freed from a new quarry raid before its courageous resistance, while it is now being attacked by a new attack from the province of Kopeeli. A new example of looting attitudes that fill the lake with construction waste is being allowed to drain Lake Sapanca by large industrial companies in Kopeli. The main drinking water source of Adapazari, Lake Sapanca, was the result of the commercial meta-botttation of fresh water that feeds the lake of Sapanca, before reaching the lake. In our province, a major agricultural centre, excessive debt and poverty are increasing every day. In Sakarya, public and private banks are estimated to be $240m in farmers' debt, including their debt to farm loans. If we compare it to the farmer's family of around 34,000, it is known that each farmer's debt in Sakarya has sunk into a $70,000 Turkish lira debt, and 60 percent of that debt is newly structured. The fact that the farmer can't produce, can't win... [[Noises]] Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0003par0025	Mr. President, I mean, is this the kind of conversational code?
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. Vural, what do you suggest I do?
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0003par0027	Disrespect of justice, disrespect of your judgment...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0004par0028	I mean, I just warned you, I'm not going down there with a stick in my hand. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0005par0030	Sir, can we set the time, please? Please, sir, I really...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. Kutluata, please come in.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0005par0032	I'll continue, but please consider my time.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0004par0033	I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0005par0034	Thank you. Sir, this kind of debt is facing our farmer, Sakarya, one of the most important examples. This goes, this poverty, this unemployment, this industrialisation, has increased the number of executive offices in Sakarya from 2 to 6, and has increased the number of executive files to 134, so each family has been reduced to almost one execution file per 6 populations. The number of families who had to receive coal relief from their government increased yearly to 16,300.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0006par0038	I'll add one minute now, please complete.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0005par0039	Please, sir. This corresponds to 12 per cent of the total number of families. As a result of this departure, there have been numerous incidents of security in our region, and the number of incidents of security has increased day by day, increasing by 60 per cent of the crimes committed against the individual over the past two years, and 53 per cent of the crimes committed against property. I mean, on one hand, it went from about 9,000 to 15,000 in crime rates -- the crime rate -- to 5,000 in property crimes, which does not include the police affairs that concern the gendarme. Dear lawmakers, we know about problems in Turkey on 2/B, but there's an additional 2/B problem in Sakarya, which is that these areas are being seized by public institutions before the land is given to the citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The seizure of 2,800 acres of land in the Blackwater region by TOKI was stopped by the concerned minister -- the Minister of the Environment. The same challenge now lives in the village of Longkum in Sapanca. Again, perhaps, with the Minister's attention, it would be possible to recover the land that the peasant had the right to seize. And in that sense, I'd like to stop speaking on behalf of the Sapancans, and give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0007par0046	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Abdulkerim Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0008par0051	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on June 22, 1984, for the title of "Lucky" to Urbana. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, on 11 April 1920, one of the rare counties that began in Shanliurfa, which began in the leadership of the very heroic people, one of which was organized by a people themselves -- in which the enemy was removed from the country, as a result of the public movement, and saved by his own people -- is your own. Şanlıurfa deserved those heroics in his history, such beauty, and his struggles, and the highly valued members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 1984 changed the title of the lucky one, which they saw fit to give him a right, to be known as Urbana. In that sense, I want to thank all members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and you valued MPs who contributed greatly to the title that day. The esteemed MPs, Gaziantep and Maras, received the Istrillal Medal. We have an offer on the law. With your support, we hope that after receiving the title of Lucky, we will say yes to the Istklal Medal, which is well deserved by Şanlıurfa, and that there will be a province of several provinces after which they received the Medal of Instulatives, Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep, and Gaziantep. In this frame, when we looked back to Şanlıurfa, in the culture of Şanlıurfa, in the folklore, in the music of the country, it was the subject of many poems, many songs, many songs, many songs, as a result of the liberation of the Battle of Salvation. I shall die for my glory. The Şanlıurfa poets of Şanlıurfa, who have said that Şanlıurfa, they deserve the Statistical Medal as well as the title of Şanlıurfa, in a struggle that will not fit the heroism of Şanlıurfa to the earth, and that the words may be inadequate. In this framework, there have been similar battles and heroics in many of our provinces. Looking back on our history, these heroics are very important to our country. At this point, people live in a very peaceful and happy way, no matter what religion, language, race, whatever kind of faith, whatever ethnic structure. Glory has always been the voice of common sense in his history. For all the time in his history, he has always shown beauty in a place where peace, brotherhood, peace, no quarrel, no noise, and so on. At the point where we're here, our governments have made investments in both glory and the eastern and southeast provinces. When we look at the cities under the GAP, we've invested 36 quadrillion in the importance of our governments to Şanliurfa, and it's obvious how much they love and support Şanlıurfa. Once again, I wish the title of the lucky one to the lucky one, and, hopefully, with your votes, I say yes to the Istrial Medal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0009par0060	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Şafak Pavey, the Istanbul MP who asked for a comment on Istanbul. Here you go, Mr. Pavey.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0010par0065	Mr. President, thank you. To leaders who try to sow seeds of hypocrisy all over the world or blame the West for problems in their own society: Know that your own people will judge you, not because of what you have destroyed, but because of what you will build. I speak to those who cling to power through corruption, deception, and silence of opponents: Know that you stand in the wrong place of history. These words belong not to me, but to US President Obama, who is bulletproof in front of the government. In 2009, he gave such an answer to the tradition of conspiracy. After all the incompetent governments of the world have destroyed the people, they try to cover their own sins with conspiracy, and that works very well in the Middle East. Young people, covered in cranes, drowned in concrete in the Istanbul skyline, wanted to protect a tiny park. Their voices were the voices of those who were suppressed and constantly insulted, Gezi. Despite the death, the loss of eye, the poisoning, and the branding of their future, they did it. I'm afraid we've lost even the partnerships we shared with you as human beings during our experiences on the Trip. But I fear that years later your heirs will tell you in tears how much pepper spray you once ate when you wanted to protect a tree. I'm going to tell those who turn their humiliation into a soap opera every chance they get, what it's really like to be officially humiliated: On May 12, 2012, I was on my way to an invitation in Eminon. The parking lot guy wouldn't let me, said he blocked the road on the governor's orders, and they'd take no one but the official vehicle. By showing my proxy identity, I said that I was kind of official, and that I had a hard time walking. As he did not open the barrier, he continued with insults that it would not lead to any CHP deputy. I've been trying to reach the governor, you know, the governor's a very high office, so it's not very possible to reach him. In the end, the citizens gathered the barriers and opened the way for me. Then a police officer apologized for what happened. On November 25, 2012, the official security officer told me to lift up my left arm for the search. I said it was a prosthetic, I couldn't handle it, the clerk insisted. One who was there asked, "Would you do the same if the AKP MP had been there?" The official replied. One Friday night in March, I was stopped for police inspection at Jahangir, my friend. I showed you my proxy I.D. I can't remember a look in my life where hatred and hatred are so intense. We followed procedure quietly. In a cold voice from the ice, he said the order of Vali Bey. On June 22, 2013, I saw the police blocking the road on the way from Dolmabahçe to put carnations in the Silverwater. I asked them to walk me out, and the officer kindly informed his superior. But to his superior, not to the CHP MP, but to make eye contact, to even look at his face, would have to be mental. He threatened to cancel his license with insults and blasphemy. When we were getting cold feet, the taxi left us on the road and dropped us off. After all, I wasn't the son of the AKP deputy who lined up the cops. The elected deputy had no value at all. The police appointed by the government also knew that his superior would make life a living hell for him. Whatever I did, I couldn't get the chief to make me look human. He probably ruined the world because he didn't have the authority to kill me right there. Ramis Topal, whose nose is broken, and my friend Muharrem Light, whose knee is broken. When I couldn't reach the governor, I was jealous of my friend Sezgin Godkulu. I called someone who was on a very important mission, and I asked them, "Why do we always get this kind of treatment? I've learned that the governor says, "Don't look down on the MPs of the CHP." Is that true? It seems true after the Prime Minister's speech describing police officers as private soldiers. I hope I'm wrong, and I hope it's not on governor's orders, but on account of some cops' personal grudge against CHP MPs. I am obliged to ask the government, however, to present this claim to our police, who have no union rights and whose consciences, reputations have been injured, who have lost their lives. I close my speech with a heartfelt greeting to our young men who show us that the Travel Trees are worth as much as Hyde Park trees. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0011par0076	Thank you, Mr. Pavey. According to the 60th article, I will make a short promise to 10 of our friends. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Police officer who shot Ethem Sarısüluk, who died of police bullets in Ankara, was released yesterday. Prime Minister Erdogan calls the footage of the intervention in the Gezi Park protests that raise the world to its feet an epic hero. If a hero is wanted in the process of being targeted by gas flares, rubber bullets, kicking and slapping, he is undoubtedly the people who want democracy, who call out for freedom, and no doubt these heroes will be forgotten throughout history. But it has to be known that the people who want democracy, who want freedom, who shoot people, who give those orders, and who think they're cleared in front of the law will not be forgotten by this people throughout history.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0011par0083	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0013par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. There are four dead, 7,822 injured, 59. One death in Istanbul, 4,500 injured, four lives are in danger. Six people have lost their heads, six have lost their eyes, 35 have broken their arms and legs, 40 others are from TOMA. One death in Ankara, 1,350 wounded. Two of them are badly wounded in Izmir. One death in Adana, three heavily wounded 161. There are 300 in Eskişehir, 17 in Mersin, 155 in Balıkesir, and a great terror of the violence of the police. I strongly condemn the hostility, hatred of the public against the police, and condemn the Prime Minister's remarks in front of the Turkish people.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0011par0087	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0014par0089	Mr. President, every day the Prime Minister talks, accuses, accuses, threatens, I did, it will. He says, it's not his agenda, but the public's getting aggressive. I gave the order. They used their authority. They passed the democracy test. They wrote the saga of heroism. And finally, will the feet be the head? The Prime Minister said, for a month now, he has been the ruler of violence and violence in the streets. The balance sheet is in the middle. Now it's clear that a government official who kills people is being protected, protected. This is why the police who killed Ethem Sarısüluk were not arrested. In that case, the expert sergeants who committed the rape in Bingol are not under arrest. The government pats its officer on the back to sustain anti-democratic rule and tyranny. Cruelty is not the thing to be overcome by. Human dignity will overcome torture. Those who commit crimes will surely be called to account for their sins.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0011par0091	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0015par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. O AKP, O AKP power, terror is over, terrorists have crossed the border. Aren't you ashamed to tell lies to the people? Are you aware that terrorists have established police units in Cizre under the name of the Citizen Revolutionary Youth Movement? Haven't you heard that the name of the Southeast Anatolian Region has been expressed as Northern Kurdistan? Don't you realize that the separatists are trying to get the right to determine their own destiny? Don't you know that the DTK changed its name to the national parliament and formed its own alternate parliaments against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? We have the will, we declare autonomy, federation or independence as we please. They say they will try to reach the goal of pancurdism on four-part Kurdistan at the next stage. Don't you understand what all this means? That's how a state is built, that's how a state is destroyed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Have you not learned that what you call solution is the solution that ends the solution? If not, resign.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0016par0097	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0017par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to talk about an announcement from June 14, 2013 on the official website of the General Secretary General's Office of the Kütahya County Hospitals Association. In this announcement, which begins with the title "Property" to our people, it would be a pleasure to have our benefactors contact us in our province who would like to support our hospitals' needs. Large amounts of projects can be met with the mutual support of 3-5 philanthropists. Our benefactors and citizens will also improve the quality of health care offered to our people, as will their help and almsmakers in such an important matter as human health. It is announced with respect to the public. I am ashamed of the ad in its form. During the AKP administrations, I strongly condemn that public institutions should be left in need of almsgiving, and I declare it to the government.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0016par0101	Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0018par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. There's not a single minister here to listen to us lawmakers, though, I'm looking, I haven't seen them, but let's talk about the troubles of our citizens. In my province, as in all parts of Turkey, in our Thrace, the wheat harvest has begun, but every year we have the same problem: the ministry explains a price, here, it's worth $720 for our wheat in the region, but even the Office takes the wheat from around $675-680, our farmer, our producer. We already know the merchant's position is down to 580-600 liras. I'd like to point out that only people compare the number: I mean, I left the fertilizer, the medicine, but a liter of diesel is now about 4.3. At these prices, the manufacturer has to sell 6 kilograms of wheat to buy 1 litre of diesel, even 7 kilograms of wheat to give to the merchant. Now, believe me when our producer gets this far, we're very sorry to have to say that the government, especially the Ministry of Agriculture...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0019par0108	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0020par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. The Prime Minister said that generations of spiteful people have been raised so far. Turns out they've already grown it while society sleeps without us noticing. The policeman who slaughtered Ethem Sarısülük was not released for twenty days, but was released in court. The police who struck the activists, who tortured them, when they were caught, said, "I lost my senses." After the Battle of Çanakkale, you wrote the greatest epic, the police chief said. At the university, the head of the department said that the head of the department, the head of the chiefs, who joined the ship, were Armenian, Greek, and their followers. The head of a youth branch said that after this, the place to tear down is the Memorial. The Prime Minister still can't explain who the two drunkards are. Those who passed from Kabataş to Kadıköy have multiplied, and from Kadiköy to Beşiktas, in the stubbornness of the Prime Minister. The Kadiköyers are showing themselves everywhere. Our Prime Minister, unfortunately, has even passed the "Teyyo" from Erzurum.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0019par0113	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0021par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Many pines and acacia trees have been cut down in Yeşilyurt district of Tokat Province, centrally in the form of massacres for urban transformation and roads on the side of state railways. A citizen named Denizhattin Yilmaz has asked us to move this matter to the agenda of Parliament. There's a natural slaughter going on here. It says, "We're drawing the attention of the authorities, and we're waiting for it to be done." Secondly, June 26th was designated as the United Nations Day of Drug Use and Trafficking. Drug abuse and drug use are a very important problem for our country as well as for the whole world. Young people are poisoned, losing their health, and their families are devastated. Besides the health of the subject, trade is also very important. Terrorist organisations also use about $10 billion in drug revenues in their own actions. It is also necessary to fight this way. From now on, the struggle...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0022par0119	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0023par0121	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, we don't have any friends in charge. I'm going to say this because you're the cause. This year of living is almost over. It's been a long time since we've brought up this road to Ankara-Adana so often, but it's this Adana-Ankara road... one side to Syria, one side to Iraq. I'd like to ask the Minister in charge of the highways specifically. We want to thank them for their interest in getting rid of the traffic signs and traffic accidents of this Ankara-Adana road.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0022par0123	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0024par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. With historical and cultural features, Kahramanmarash is one of the few provinces of Turkey. These historical and cultural features of ours must be brought to the next generation. We need to take very good care of these, and we need to protect them very well, but unfortunately in Kahramanmarash and his districts, there is no interest or interest in our buildings, our structures that have these historical and cultural properties. We expect assistance from the relevant ministries, as heroes of the United States, and demand that they be redesigned by 2013, 2014 at the latest. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0025par0128	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0026par0130	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, something happened yesterday, and I'd like to remind him again. Two weeks ago, the cop who killed Ethem, whom I said had been shot by police from the council bench, was released yesterday on the grounds of self-defense. I was in Kızılay that day, many of the children were in Kızılay, the children of the people who voted for the AKP were in Kızılay, and when I went to the State Railway Hospital for reports of those who were taken into custody, there was a child of an AKP family who had been taken into custody and taken away from a bus station. It could have happened to many children who were there, to all of us, to the children of Ethem. So I condemn the release of the defendant on the grounds of self-defense, even though the evidence was seen in the footage. Everyone saw a fully-equipped Robocop put a bullet in his head, a helmet, a gun in his hand, and all of Turkey watched, watched a video, watched him kick those who fell on the ground. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He saw that he could shoot a man in the head, not in the air, even knowing that a lot of people there could die, and he saw that the definition of self-defense had changed. I condemn that decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit01spe0027par0134	Thank you. The Capitol TV has asked me to take a five-minute break from the merger regarding a technical matter.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0027par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is enough, it's accepted. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 25/06/2013 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 31 May 2013, Kars MP İstiye was released by Birtane and his friends (3513 rows no. The parliamentary survey motion, which was submitted to the Grand National Assembly for the protection of women and children against sexual assaults, was proposed to be taken ahead of other motions pending the information of the General Assembly, reading in presentations on Tuesday 25/06/2013 and combining the talks with the same date. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Idris Baluken, Until the TV goes out, I want our friends to talk as much as possible, because I'm excited and excited. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0028par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our party's group proposal. I salute your committee. Dear MPs, unfortunately, dozens of women and children are sexually harassed or raped every year in Turkey. So far, when we look at the details of these rapes and rapes, we face the fact that most of these rapes occur in the form of mass rape, and in many rape cases, public officials are involved with government officials. So far, when we examine the cases of all the rape cases involving these public officials, we find that the courts often follow a pattern of rescuing criminals, exposing victims or victims, for reasons such as self-approvement or provocation, in order to expose the victim or the victim, in order to put the victim under more suspicion by the holy state reflex. In many cases, unfortunately, we see cases that will not be accepted in any way due to lack of surveillance, the decision to drop the cases due to the statute of limitations, and, in many cases, for the sake of these inhuman rape cases. There's a lot of examples, and if there's time, I'll do some of those other examples. However, in particular, for the last week, I'd like to share with you again a dishonorable process that has reached a serious level of rebellion in the People of Bingol. In 2011, a 14-year-old Bingöllu E. A. For two years, a child named Jesus was treated as inhumane in the form of sexual abuse and rape. This was a month ago, E. In a religious, conservative, and relatively closed society such as Bingol, an example of great courage, it has cost all public opinion, along with an attempt to seek justice by going to the courthouse to make all things stand up to its chest. Don't get me wrong, the dishonor we're talking about here, E. It has nothing to do with the situation of A. E. All systemic policies imposed on A.L., his family, and the people of Bingol as a whole are that dishonor. Imagine a 16-year-old girl applying to the courthouse, seeking justice, in order to expose her rights to the inhumane treatment she's been through, all the challenges that may have cost her her life in that society, perhaps, but justice, E. Justice, which A. had sought to take refuge in, lifts its arrest decision on the four defendants first by appeal to the upper court, so all eight expert sergeants who have been treating a 14-year-old girl inhumanly for two years are now walking among the people of Bingol. In the hands of the government's weapon, on the shoulders of the state's authority, these individuals who have dishonored the people of Bingol are still serving in Bingol. The people of Bingol have been trying to speak to you all for a week, ten days. All Kurdish women have been on the streets for a week, ten days, trying to give the Kurdish woman the message that they will stand most strongly against these harassment and rape policies against Kurdish children. The incident has also exceeded Kurdish women, and all of Turkey's women's movements are trying to make noise, voice, support, and nullify these imposed rape policies because of the situation, but we still haven't heard a single statement from the ministers of the AKP government under this decision. These eight expert sergeants work in the service of the gendarmes, and despite our meeting with the Minister of Interior, despite our meeting with the Governor of Bingol, they have not yet been suspended with an administrative investigation or a cancellation of their contracts, and a decision has not been made, and we have not witnessed a single sentence of the Home Secretary of the Interior. We haven't heard a single sentence from the Justice Department, the Minister of Justice, and most of all, from the Prime Minister about this matter, about this persecution, about this dishonor imposed on the people of Bingol, not one sentence, not one word. During the Gezi Park resistance, for nearly two weeks, a woman in a headscarf exposed the persecution of our sister to public; over and over again, she was in a position to complain to the public on every platform she came out on. Now, under the headscarf, E. A. So, when you're a Bingöl lad, when you're a Kurd, the Prime Minister doesn't speak? The Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Interior, must explain as soon as possible why we haven't heard a single sentence. According to a breaking news story we received before we got here, we had no chance to confirm the truth about a sergeant, an arrest warrant was issued. And it doesn't bother you that there are no transactions about the seven remaining people that this family has exposed, the ones that this child has exposed? Is there such a thing? When I spoke of this council before, we shared with you what decisions were signed at the court of justice in Bingol. We're talking about an 18-year-old girl who only gave her life sentence for coming to BDP's office. We're talking about a judicial mechanism that arrests college students and sends them to prisons because they're being filmed with their mouth open because they're taking a picture, which is because they're practically breathing. We're talking about a mechanism that sends mayors in Bingol to prison, despite false indictments and severe medical reports, without any incriminating elements. Because they participated in the water protest, we are talking about a judicial mechanism that investigates the people of Bingol because they say, "Why doesn't water flow in a city where there's not a drop of water for ten days?" This painting doesn't bother you? Is that acceptable? Don't let anyone come here and tell us about the independence of the judiciary. We've testified over and over again that you have made it clear to the public how you instructed the judiciary when it came to it. You can't give us one reason why the Home Secretary still hasn't dismissed these eight people. So in the beginning, this is E. A. In the past, N. C. In this case, there is no doubt that in the cases of mass rape in Siirt, the rights, the law, the justice of this House will be dealt with by the policies of this court, which have imposed this dishonor... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm stating that he needs to set up a commission and be involved. It's a matter of partying. This is a subject that can be the turn of any party's political, social, social sensibility. Therefore, I say again that every political party has to take a positive stance on the establishment of a research commission, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0029par0038	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Malatya MP Öznur Çukık against the Peace and Democracy Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0030par0042	Mr. President, I find that the esteemed MPs have made a commitment to the BDP group proposal. I salute the High Council. All political parties under the roof of this Parliament can have different views and policies in many areas, such as health, education, transportation, development, economics. But when it comes to protecting family and family, when it comes to protecting women and women, when it comes to protecting children and children, it's a good thing that all of our political parties under this roof approach with the same precision and try to get involved when it comes to it. This is a very happy event for all of us. BEFORE the AK PARTI rulings, studies in many areas in this country, such as economic, social and cultural education, which represent the mother and family that are the basis of society, were not conducted in a wholety. In order for these setbacks and problems to be resolved in a healthy way, we established the Ministry of Family and Social Policy during the AK PARTY administrations. That was the most important indication of how much we care about family. After our family ministry was established as an executive ministry, it allowed us to look forward to the future by making changes and transformations in many areas. Mr. President, I'd like to see what our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has done so far regarding sexual abuse and rape, given BDP's proposal for the opening of parliamentary research. As the ministry, we have been involved in 125 cases, and we have ensured that 6 of these cases will be punished from the top. However, we follow every other ongoing case. We've been through some very important changes and transformations in ten years of EC PARTY power, and we continue to bring it to our nation. The most important thing of all was that the understanding of the social state was established, and the most important indicator of that was the budget that we budgeted for social policies. In 2002, we divide 44.8 per cent of the budget into interest, while in 2012, only 13 per cent of it goes to interest, and we divide 30 per cent into social policy. This budget is divided into social policies -- 30 percent to women, children, disabled. It's not just a budget, and it's not just a legal arrangement. We've made significant changes both nationally and internationally. In the international area, we signed the Convention on Avoiding Every Sort of Segregation Against the United Nations Women, and we sided with it. For the protection of our children, we again sided with the United Nations contract in 1990 and changed the 90th article of the Constitution, and decided that international law was above domestic law. We've made all kinds of legal arrangements to prevent violence. Violence means no language, no religion, no color, no race. Violence is what we all think of as physical, psychological, economic, and unfortunately sexual violence, and unfortunately, not just in Turkey, but in the world, we see very different categories of violence. On this occasion, we realize that the national and international contracts that we have made, and the legal regulations are not enough to prevent them, and we say that we are doing studies and research on all kinds of events by establishing the Department of Children's Services for Family and Social Policy. Together, we have ensured that the rights and peace of children in need of protection are guaranteed by Law 5395, adopted in 2005. We signed a very important legal arrangement in 2011; we made a legal provision for the protection of women and family members from violence, and in 2005, we again protected our families and children through the arrangements for women's rights. These children, our women, our own lives, our lungs, our hearts, and, unfortunately, the most sheltered places that we've taken into custody, are suffering this sacrifice. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, who have shaken us deeply and wounded us as human beings, and who we sincerely hope will never be repeated, E. A. His case is a deep sadness for all of us. He's our son. First of all, we conduct our work with the awareness of our responsibilities as the High Assembly, so that our daughter and her family, who were victims of this incident, and that others would not experience the trauma they suffered. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has requested a mistrial for the charge of sexual abuse in Bingley and has been involved in this case. Currently, one of the suspects has been ordered to be arrested by the criminal court; when the investigations in the case are completed, the court will review the arrest of the other suspects. In addition, our ministry has protected many of us by sending legal advisors, child psychiatrists, psychologists, and other experts together. Our daughter and her family have met the warm, caring face of the state. Our ministry and we are in constant communication with the family. With these reports completed, I think this case will end in good health because the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, and it will be fulfilled. We're with the victim, the child, the woman, whoever, the underdog. The government, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, performs all its duties. In this country, if a woman in a family is unhappy, that society has signaled disease. The unhappy mother's son and wife are unhappy. It is our most important duty to give the government, the nation's women a say, to protect them, to protect them, and to travel together. Today, just as we are involved in our daughter's incident in Bingöl, which has been a sad incident, so is your mother Hatice, who jumped on a live bomb to protect her children in the district of lice, Diyarbakır, which you will all remember in the past, as well as our daughter Serap, who burned to death when she was thrown on the bus she was on.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0031par0056	What's that got to do with anything? Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0030par0057	We have always been there for our 14 - year - old Ceylan, who has not been trained because of the ban on wearing a headscarf in the district of lice in Diyarbakir. We have been there for him today. As we are with A., we will be with all the victims and the oppressed. When we look at those we should be with, the people, the women, the violence that happened in Dolmabahçe, and the violence that our woman was subjected to with her child, we must all see and be with her. It is the duty of mankind to stand by the victim, the oppressed; it is our duty. If Turkey has a problem, if the world has a problem, we have to worry about that. Unfortunately, the problem with women who were raped in Syria has become our problem. At a parliamentary meeting before the G-8, G-20 summit in London, we had it added to the report so that the rape charge would not be used as a weapon of war. Unfortunately, rape in wars has become the most important weapon of crime used against women, and Turkey, in this context, is on top of things like this very clearly. We will continue to be not only with Syria as Turkey, but with victims all over the world that have happened before. No matter how different people's skin, color, language, let's not forget that tears are always the same. Tears have no tongue, no religion, no color, and we share tears. I would like to point out that we are unable to participate in the group proposal given by the BDP, because in this regard, our executive ministry, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, has carried out the necessary measures, the necessary issues. I say we should all be there for our women, our children, and all of our people who are victims. Sexual abuse is a crime of humanity, which I say once again that we are all strongly condemning, and I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0032par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0033par0064	Mr. President, during his speech, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has taken all necessary precautions, and there are some serious improvements in these rape incidents. He misinformation the General Assembly. I'd like to share some figures with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0032par0065	Now you're opening a path, so here we go. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0033par0069	Mr. President, I'd like to share some numbers now, before I add any comment. The Ministry of Justice's response to our official motion to question: 61,469 rapes occurred between 2001 and 2008. Over the course of six years, 99,792 people have been involved in these rapes. On average, there are 22 rape cases on average every day in Turkey. Now, I've got more detailed information and I'm not going to go into them, but here we are, doing everything we need to do... but before you there are answers from the Minister of your government. I mean, why are you running away from this? Let him set up a commission on these rape incidents, and let the Parliament present solutions to the Ministry, which you have mentioned, as well, to the woman under it, to the woman's approach, sexist point of view, social policy, economic reasons, political causes, war environment, migration, whatever. I think you need to stay away from the approach that will lead to the escape. E. A. Regarding the incident, the Minister of Family and Social Policy has shown a sensitive approach; a woman has shown the sensitivity that every minister must do because she is a mother. But why doesn't the Home Secretary relieve eight people of these inhuman treatments? What happened after the first arrest warrant, when they were released for trial without arrest? I've shared with you many judicial decisions in the Bingol justice mechanism. The one who let the mayor in, the congressman, the college student... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is there any explanation for why a judicial mechanism that takes over protects the rapists?
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0034par0074	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0033par0075	As a government, you have to answer that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0034par0077	The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0035par0078	I'd like to make a correction, Mr. President. There's been an arrest on the last case, which I think is the most important indication of the sensitivity of our Justice Department and our other ministries. Congressman...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0034par0080	You already said that in your speech.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0036par0081	Is anyone listening? I told you, I told you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0034par0082	You said it in your speech, and now it's in the transcripts. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0036par0084	They've had to arrest someone for reactions, they'll arrest them all, don't worry.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0034par0088	In favor of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the final word -- and then I will make my final promise against you -- Mr. Sakine Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0037par0091	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the motion to protect women and children from sexual assault, and I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, views and policies based on discrimination, which feel almost every aspect of our social, economic, political, and sexual life, most influence women and children. In different geographys of our world, the violence of women and children is unfortunately the result of a series of faulty behaviors on ideology and different forms of governance. It's extremely difficult to identify cases of abuse and rape against women, children. Because moral, traditional values, and many reasons for limiting women and children financially, socially, make it difficult for them to reveal the extent of violence and to find solutions. Women and children who have been sexually harassed or raped should be left silent and alone to share their problems, a fundamental political opening that the political institution especially needs to address. The violence of women and children, regardless of their degree, is a domestic problem of innocent and excused family elders, so let's resolve this problem amongst ourselves before you make a big deal out of it. This wrong attitude, no matter what individuals or institutions come from, has delayed the implementation of the treatment procedures and social benefits needed for women and children, even in many disadvantaged areas, in the eyes of women and children. Dear lawmakers, official figures or public statements are far from showing the painful side of our problems. In the state administration, a view that defines problem detection as a human machine and all domestic violence and abuse is now a private area that should not be touched. The social government cannot say that I am protecting my fellowman until it has fully established the causes and consequences of abuse and all kinds of violence. After the justice-run state has decided to protect women and children, it must make all the social and economic support necessary, allowing them to rejoin the work and education life with the least problem of their life through severe mental traumas caused by abuse and rape. The state can't try to find a middle ground for harassment and rape, and avoid this big problem because violence is caused by family or nearby environments. The state has been able to raise qualified experts who can provide a separate set of solutions to the source of multidimensional problems that burn our hearts, such as harassment and rape, and have been able to establish enough social policy. Especially in rural areas, violence, harassment, rape, if the state is condemning social worker, psychologist, psychiatrists to unemployment, there is a major problem. Dear lawmakers, our dear people, who are watching us on their screens, most of us are likely witnesses to open violence, harassment and rape against women and children around us in our youth. Again, many of us have not been able to explain these painful events, but have kept them a secret, learned to shut up as a result of some of the traditional values we grew up in. Today, the level of silence, education, and income continues to exist through the values of the region. We don't want to take this government to the ground for nothing, we just want to make sure that the real problems are in place and in time, that no more women and children will continue to live with bitter faces. Where women and children's future is at stake, everything is political, politics is a necessity, state silence is unacceptable. Dear AKP Party MPs, if our government does not shut up and step forward on the solution, and our Parliament continues to stand by in the face of harassment and rape, your majority will only give you a half-hour of comfort. If you come to this stand to give your usual vote to the research proposal and try to explain what you did or didn't do in 11 years -- the statistic pile -- you won't even notice how many women and children are living during those conversations. Let's leave your memory for once, not remembering a memorization from the ancients, but yes. Say yes. Let's all take precautions to reduce the sexual abuse and rapes of women and children. Our council should not be silent enough to pass on harassment and rape and the state should be involved without wasting time. According to official data from the research motion, total rapes have upset their conscience. The rapists were usually released with criminal fines. Our women who can't explain harassment and rape are on the verge of suicide, many of whom have committed suicide. The courts had already approved our young girls. He approached our young girls with insults. According to a study of our university in Manisa, my hometown, at least one-quarter of the women of Manisa cannot describe the violence they see around them. The last time, my brother, Fethiye Gökçen of Akhisar, received a restraining order to leave his wife as a result of violence, but his abuse never stopped, he was stabbed to death by his wife in front of the police. Dear lawmakers, reports from our party's prison commission and visits by our deputies have revealed the complete naked scandal of child abuse and rape in juvenile prisons. Our measures and solution packages, which need to be taken, have not been received seriously by the government. Here's the last example of this seriousness we've experienced in the process of travel resistance. Just yesterday, brave TV-speaking lawyers argued that some women detained on May 31st were stripped naked of their clothes by male police officers. It's not over, I'm afraid it's not. In Bingley, two years ago, E. A. four senior sergeants who were tried for raping our daughter have been released recently, and the city has rebelled, and the government has remained silent again. What kind of legal state is this, dear friends? Now, we insist on whether our House and the government will be able to deal with the situation in the face of these dramatic allegations. Our parliament must take the first step by saying yes to this motion of research that comes before it today, signing the history of Parliament by signing the beginning of comprehensive and lasting policies, not the temporary solutions that leave women and children to the lap of violence, harassment, rape. I'd like to see all those responsible who have been harassed, raped, our women, our children, and the way to be judged without arrest, overcome this burden and strongly condemn the process. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0038par0103	Thank you. The last word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Mr. Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0039par0107	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we discussed a topic in Bingol's privacy. Our esteemed Malatya MP Öznur Çuk has shared his thoughts and feelings in detail. I'd like to talk about a couple of different topics. First of all, the case in Bingol is very important. It's impossible not to be sensitive about it, not to be impressed. So I want to express that we share the same feelings and thoughts, especially as mothers. So it's a very valuable move for our Ministry to be involved in the case immediately after the incident here, but it's not only that, but it's also very valuable for its activity in 125 different cases recently. So when similar incidents happen, our Ministry is with the victims. We have a Ministry that represents our daughters, our women's sensitivities at the time of ugly events, which are present with their lawyers in all cases -- which was established at this time by the Family Ministry -- five general managers, 32 department heads, in all cases, in all social cases, in all social cases, in all social cases, in a very efficient, very sensitive way, with the heads of general managers and departments. In this process, public opinion will carefully monitor the developments after the Ministry's intervention, because it is also a very valuable process in public conscience.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0040par0110	Take him off duty, Congressman, and take him off duty at once.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0039par0111	I'd like to point out another thing: it was the country that first brought the European Council of Europe into internal law when it came to the subject of this period, which was signed by all of our political parties, and I thank all of our esteemed lawmakers in all political party groups, who, for the first time, addressed the issue of violence against the woman, was in the countries that signed the first signature when it came to this issue in the Council of Europe. I mean, for sexual abuse, for violence against women, for children, for any sensitivity to our women. In 14 counties, the Koza Violence Prevention and Surveillance Centers were established. Why am I underlineing this? That's important too. Again with the sexual abuse, the violence of the woman, and the human rights. In this sense, all incidents such as this are being considered in the Koza Violence Prevention and Watch Centers; psychiatrists, psychologists, and the training pens there are covered in all social considerations -- a study at the Koza Violence Prevention and Watch Centres -- which has just begun, as a precaution for the new era, under the issues that have been proposed as a solution. Again, I'd like to make another point and finish my words, which is that I want to draw attention to a structure that works together in every study in the name of the woman. I'm the Commissioner for the Equality of Male Opportunity, and as the Speaker of Women's Opportunity, especially in the laws that have been passed, which have just been released from the Commission to increase the woman's employment and employment in the title of employment. In this subcommittee, we were able to act with a common mind again in the title of employment. Again, in all such cases, we need to act with the common mind, including the topic that BDP has pointed out, and together we need to demonstrate that sensitivity. As a matter of fact, the point of this period in education, health, social policy, and employment is much better than yesterday, but we need to take those steps to make sure it's much better in the future. For example, legal regulations: legal regulations in the Employment Law, employment enhancers; legal regulations in the Turkish Penal Code, including, for example, sexual abuse. There were laws that were so embarrassing. What was one of those headlines? The extenuating circumstances in the ritual killings. In our country, that law was eliminated, and in our country, that shame was wiped out and signed. Again, such studies have been carried out in many topics in the Turkish Penal Code, which is similar to that of sexual abuse. So in the Law of the Work, in the Civil Law, in every study of the Turkish Penal Code, in every study of the woman's name, we took steps to make it better by signing our signatures, which is the most vital arrangement in the Constitution. What is it? That's positive discrimination for a woman. I think it's one of the most important aspects of the sensitivity we've shown in the constitutional arrangement. Of course, what happened in Bingol is very sad, of course, that we will follow closely the work that follows, the process that follows. And our Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin, with a heartfelt congratulations on the sentiment of this matter, congratulating him of his immediate involvement in the case, which is also the case of 125 cases, with which our Ministry is involved, and we will follow the outcome together. I reject this proposal because there are other agendas scheduled for today. With these feelings and thoughts, I say I vote against the BDP group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0041par0118	Thank you. I submit the BDP group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 25/6/2013 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I move that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly (November 5, 2012) and its friends have taken steps to investigate the issues of subcontractor Mehmet Şandir and his friends (10/185), which must be taken through investigations into the issues of subcontractors (10/185) and the issues of subcontracted subcontractors who work in the public office (February 19, 2013, 1997, 1997, and 1999). The first statement in favour of the National Party's Party's proposal is from Kütahya MP, Mr. Alim Izlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0042par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on our recommendation today to open a parliamentary investigation to investigate the problems of the public contractors given by members of the National Movement Party, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu and his friends, Mr. Enver Erdem and his friends and Mr. Ali Öz and his friends in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, in order to take the necessary measures into consideration. I hereby salute you worthy members of the High Council and our esteemed citizens who watch over us on television. Dear lawmakers, what we're talking about today is a matter of citizens whose number is about 2 million and whose rights are directly seized. That's about the number of officers working as a staff in the state of the Republic of Turkey today, so we're talking about proposals that we've made with the demand that the problems of a number of staffed officers be thoroughly investigated and proposed solutions, taken up on the agenda of the parliamentary community. You may be thinking, "What is the deal with these people? What is so important that you refer to them as the National Movement Party? Although the government's agenda is very different, it is a very important issue on our nation's agenda. Because this is the way contractors, such as cleaning, restaurant, security, even in the lab, have to do a lot of work, but when they have no authority to sign, if they have to go to the hospital for any reason, if they have to go to the hospital for any reason, with the problems of the workers employed by these subcontractors, and if they have to go to the hospital for any other reason, even if they have to do something to harm them in a business accident, they have to do something to the firm, such as cleaning, restaurant, security, even as in the laboratory, as a year before they've had to do so much work, they can't sleep at all the same time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, just as an example, without giving you his name, he worked with such workers for a year, and at the end of the term, the company changed or the same firm got the job back. When he wants to re-hire the workers, make him the severance package I'm going to give you, so that if the government wants to take it away from me, I don't have the money to save it. So you give me the money, I give you the money. So, for this money, I'll get a promissory note from you. I'll show you a couple of the companies that say, "I'll buy a note, I won't give you a name." Look, it's a two thousand-treasure note from a subcontractor to rehir it. It's got a name, T.C. He's got an I.D., he's got a signature, which firm he's given to, and when he's not paid, precious deputies. He'll get it whenever he wants. A bond of 2,500 euros, a bond of 2,500 TL, a bond of 2,500 TL, and a bond of 2,000 TL. There are thousands of them. It's one of the examples that every firm does. If he doesn't give it, he can't get a job, and if for some reason this employee is looking for his legal rights in front of the authorities, they'll give it to him first, they'll put it right in front of him, and the next day he'll be fired anyway. One of the most important problems is this severance issue. These people's problems must be solved by this great House. Second and another important problem: Precious lawmakers, these subcontractors can't pick out workers that work for their own good. As soon as these subcontractors receive the tender, a list is given to them, you will receive them. These companies don't have the right to take a single person. The Justice and Development Party in that region must work with a list of district or county agencies. The worker who got that job with this list is acting like he's the boss because there's a husband of the government behind it. I voted for the ruling party because they promised me this vote; I went with my family, I joined the organization, and I voted for the Koran, and I voted for it. I have Recep Tayyip Erdogan behind me. You can see how many people say that in different examples in your own provinces. Hence, this worker, who has government assurances behind him, is not doing his job. The owner of the subcontractor company over there can't get that much out of this worker. It's a different matter. Well, then what's the subcontractor supposed to do? Either he's going to run it for two or three months, or he's going to pay for it, or he's going to try hard work... so this very good worker who came in with the party decision says: I'm sorry, I can't do this under these conditions, give me my money or anywhere else. When he does, the contractor says to his family this time: "Look, I hired your son, and now I've made my promise, but your boy doesn't like our job, it's two months, three months later." Instead, another promised child enters, the same story continues for three months. Every year, four or five people get a job, and the so-called ruling party gets jobs for the country's kids, but the kids in the country don't like it. We have to get ahead of this. It's one of the most important problems today -- 1.7 million people, officially, directly employed in public with the Ministry of Labor and Social Security data, and more than 2 million people in private sectors -- who have reached 2 million people today. Everyone knows these outlets are in every company. On the other hand, if subcontractors attempt to search for certain rights due to the Labour Safety Act, they are facing the threat of being thrown out of the door and laid off at any moment, and unfortunately, this great Parliament is now in the process of deciding that an arrangement for this in its Law on Business Safety will be pushed back two or three years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, don't let anyone fool each other. If we're going to solve this problem, we're going to solve it here. We're entering the elections, let's get through the elections, and then God is taking care of it. If the understanding continues, we'll have a lot of business accidents, we'll kill a lot of people, and no one will be responsible for it. Dear MPs, especially these subcontractors, they don't have permits, they don't have vacations, they don't have union rights; on the other hand, they don't have bonuses, bonuses and so on. These workers, taken to work for eight hours, are working for ten to twelve hours, but the money they're getting is a minimum wage or over, but they're the workers who'll either pull half of it with the company's ATM card and return it to accounting the next day, or collect the ATM cards, who'll be collected by the company's accountant or someone in charge, as soon as they're paid to the bank and share it with the company and the other ruling party executives who are with the company and the company, with whom it's not so painful, not so much trouble. There are many problems like this. Of course, I remind you once again that this matter must be discussed in this great House.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0043par0147	Thank you, Mr. Light. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0044par0151	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the National Movement Party's request to investigate the subcontracted workers, of course, is quite appropriate. We've been talking a lot about the problems of our working class and subcontractors for a long time. The last time before May 1st Labor Day, on April 25th, we proposed a law supported by 124,000 workers with their signatures. We demanded that the subcontractor work be lifted in this proposal, and the subcontractors in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Turkey, Turkey, Kütahya, and Adıyaman, the last of whom we attended, expressed their problems. In fact, these are not problems that we don't know about, but also issues that the congressman just spoke on the motion. First of all, I'd like to begin by recalling the 11 workers who burned down in their tents and all the workers who lost their lives in business killings, as they were called subcontractors in March 2012, as they worked in the mall construction. In the same way, I continue to speak to the workers of the airline, whose labor, their sweat, their union, their organizational power, their strike, their collective contract union rights, and who are currently being blocked by pressure by the government and the employer, and who are being declared unlawful, and who are resisting in the fields and wishing them success. The subcontractor study was legally brought to the working class of Turkey by this AKP government again with a amendment to Article 2 of the Business Law in 2002. What a subcontractor does, how he lives, how he eats, how he works, it's not unknown. There is no job guarantee, no hard and arbitrary work; according to the law, he does the real work, when he needs to work in professional aid and temporarily; like other staff jobs; he is unorganised, underpaid, doesn't take the weekend off, doesn't take the holiday leave; work killings are usually kept alive as his destiny, and when he is in a business accident, the ambulance fee is asked for without shame or boredom. He works in municipalities, universities, hospitals, roads, almost all the jobs left by the public, even in the private sector. The Turkish Grand National Assembly, where we are under its roof, also employs subcontractors; 950 subcontractors, 1,500 4/C (c) people, 2100 staff workers work and serve in this Parliament. At the time of this amendment, the 400k subcontractors are now over 2 million. And in construction, in metal, in mine, in energy, in business, in dam construction, the workers who have lost their lives in the work killings that we know so much about in the mines are subcontractors who are living these landscapes that carry us to the European 1st place. Precious lawmakers, under the name of this national employment strategy, again, it is a form of exploitation and work, which, as it is known, has been invented by the state by the neoliberal capitalist system to create our workers, our workers, to make them into modern slaves, to combat so-called unemployment, to provide more employment, in fact, and by using privatisation practices, to create a model that the government has created by disintegrating public services completely from the social state's understanding, by leaving them into private sectors, private spaces, by creating parts of the public time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to convey to you the letter of a worker on the highway. Mr. Congressman, this has also been said to you that we are road workers working under the name of the highways. We've been on the highway for five to sixteen years on average. We've won every case we've ever filed since we were unionists. The Supreme Court has decided that the highways are workers. We don't know when our salaries will be paid, how many hours a week we'll be working, so basically, we have no social rights. We ask you to help us in accordance with the decisions that the judiciary has made in our favor. Because there's a saying that the finger cut off by the sheriff won't hurt. If we don't trust our own laws and our government, who and what will we trust? We're asking for your contributions and support to give them their rights. We await you with good news. With all due respect. Yes, this is a plea, a complaint, and a request to all of us. The demands that subcontractors talk about in the fields are obvious in the conventions. If we're doing the real job, we want a staffed and secure job, and of course we want an organized, union, humane wage and a working life. Now, the mission here is, of course, in the House, in the government, in the Minister of Labor. The Minister of Labor had a statement in a newspaper recently saying that Mr. Faruk Çelik: "I can't find a union to solve the problems of the Tabheron workers." Many workers, millions of workers, by eating cheese, bread, olives, can live their lives this way. Mr. Steel, who advocates the minimum wage, actually does injustice to the trade unions who are fighting to survive in this field, but there is a fact that most of the unions, labor movement and trade unions, are in submission to the government, to employers, to their pressures, under the pressure of the bureaucratic mind, are helpless, helpless, helpless, helpless under these pressures. But what does the government produce in the face of all this? If you say, well, I'm listening now to the problems of the subcontractors with the usual bag of laws, and I'm going to fix them. The government is looking for a new game. He's handing over seniority compensation to the fund, taking away the rights earned from one side, and on the other hand, he wants to set up some sort of referee-like mechanisms in order to get the piled load out of the hands of the courts and make it easier. What does the worker say, dear lawmakers: What does the law stand for? The law is in order to improve the situation, to improve the conditions, the laws we want to find better. But when we look at it, the government has passed a law to take away our rights, to impose harsher, worser, crueler conditions on us. Yes, there is a law that has been passed that has made the situation of subcontractors who work at TPAO even more permanent and worse, a law that has led to privatisation and ending TPAO. Dear lawmakers, I would like to remind the government's party and lawmakers that as you know, Turkey has been standing with its youth, its women, its artists, its intellectuals, its workers, its workers, its workers, for a month. An attack on the city, its right to live, its values, its family life, its body, its beliefs, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights, its rights rights, its rights, its rights, its rights rights. Now, I would like to remind you once again that in this particular agenda where we're talking about the problems of subcontractors, of our workers, of our workers, the problems of our government and Assembly: believe that after young people and women, the people who are going to explode, will rise up against the life of this slave, in the great mining march on June 15th 16th, in the 90 strikes, as in the action of spring 89, the Turkish working class will rise up against these brutal, capitalist, neoliberal attacks. The government wants to establish a subcontractor republic as 2023 shows its goals, but our workers and workers will not give up the struggle to build a country where they will live freely, democratically. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0045par0165	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi is in favor of the National Movement Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0046par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with love. I have taken a pledge from the National Movement Party in favour of the proposal to bring up a problem that should be addressed most urgently in Turkey -- the application of the dish. Once again, I salute the High Council with love. Dear friends, Mr. Labour Minister hopes the workers on subcontractors, says, "We will soon solve the problem of subcontractors." He says, "We will continue to work with MHP, BDP, CHP, and MPs a year ago, and then put it aside like un serker on the rope, and then, when it comes to the agenda again, he says again: I will solve the problem of the subcontractors, I will give the staff of the contract staff. And these promises, and these hopes, and these declarations, have no requital in the people at all. The Prime Minister said in his speech again today, that if the feet are head, the apocalypse will explode. He used similar sentences before and today. The feet come to the head in this sense because they want to say stop this persecution, these practices, these subcontractors, and the pressure. He is also concerned with the demands of the people in division; they are trying to present at least one voice in every field against the injustice they experience, against the injustice they face. In İzmir, Adana, Ankara, Burma, Eskişehir, and all other provinces, the main problem is a rebellion against injustice, against the practices of this violent capitalism. So there's a government that doesn't enforce judgment about this, above all else. They had worked in the subcontractor of some 8,000 highways before, and went to court, and said our main job was the highways. The court ruled in their favor. The Supreme Court approved this decision and said: "They must have worked on the main roads, and they need to be based on these fees. Now, we live in a country where judicial decisions don't apply, dear friends. First of all, it's not important to make the law here, it's important that the government and the government enforce the law here the most, but the laws in this country do not apply. My dear friends are constantly talking about a growing economy, the AKP's government, saying that the IMF debt has been freed from its power. Yes, on the one hand, you can pay off an IMF debt, but at the moment, it's the IMF policy, it's its prescriptions. So if you look at the source from the World Bank in the last language, some of this is the name of the recycling project. So on the one hand, he's getting rid of an IMF debt, and on the other hand, he's trying to get a lot of debt through the World Bank channel or something like that. On the other hand, my dear friends, seven of our fellow workers in Milas, have died of methane gas. I wish them mercy from this place once again. But the employees there were subcontractors. We said that the implementation of these subcontractors -- we've told them over and over -- that the cost of this growth is being paid by subcontracted workers in this country, and that most of the workers in this country are my dear friends, 47 percent of them are working for minimum wage. What's the minimum wage? 783 liras. Now, how much is the hunger limit? 1,058 liras. 47 per cent of workers in Turkey work for minimum wage. What does he work for? Eight hours, not seven-and-a-half hours, but 12, 13, 14 hours, and they're stuck there in exchange for 15 hours of work. Again, according to the ministry's research, there is a serious subcontractor implementation in the health sector, especially in the construction sector, in the field of education, in the state, and the state must first solve it, but instead of solving it, it continues its growing goals every day. So, the cost of growing the economy, that's what the subcontractors pay, my dear friends, for 13.14 hours and 15 hours. How do they pay? By losing their lives. That's what they pay by losing their lives in the ship's industry, in the construction industry, in other areas. So, when you look at it from this angle, there's a problem with pensioners. The pensioners are seriously troubled in this country, and most of their salaries are also below the age of starvation. Again, this country has its age. Over and over again, we say from this platform: The agenda of this Assembly is being engaged in laws that have nothing to do with it, but the main problem is that there is no serious study of the subcontractor problem, which is the main problem that hurts people. Now, again, in many of these applications, the government calculates the use of a few people instead of citizens who pay these costs. Yes, in the time of the AKP's rule, those who grew up were the supporting capital of this country; they grew up, they added more power to their economic power, but this country's pensioners, its employees, its officers, its pensioners, its pensioners, are being made to pay the price, its community is being paid for. So, my friends, the last thing I'm going to tell you is that what is being done is that this power is making your life hell, and while you're doing it, it's using the subcontractor, it's playing with the workers' hopes. We'll be the ones to break them, to break these games. They will prevent, we will overcome these barriers; they will exert pressure, we will resist tirelessly; they will make laws in favor of capital, and we will make laws ineffective of labour. Let us not forget that those who make songs of a country are stronger than those who make their laws. Our struggles and songs, our enthusiasms will never end, and until this subcontractor problem is resolved in Turkey, we will stand by those contractors, we will fight them, we will fight them, we will resist them, and we will resist them. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0047par0186	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. The final word against the National Movement Group's proposal is from Mr. Mahmut Kozar of Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0048par0190	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the MHP Group's motion to investigate the problems of subcontractors. I hereby salute the High Council. Before we begin my words, I think it would be more meaningful to begin with a diagnosis of when the subcontractor apps began. Dear friends, subcontractor practices in Turkey are an application that was first issued in 1936, which entered into force in Turkey with the First Law of Business, number 3008. The following regulation on sub-employment was then adopted by Job Law 931, which was issued in 1967, and then by Law 1475, issued in 1971 as a result of the Supreme Court's cancellation of its relevant law clause. The latest arrangement in 2003 included the application of sub-employment, which we refer to as "tashion" in Article 2 of Business Law 4857. So, basically, this sub-employee application, which we refer to as an app for tasheron, is an app that does not begin with AK PARTY power, its past dates back to 1936, and is also applied in later times. But as far as we're concerned, actually, the working conditions, as far as they're concerned, are an area of serious rights losses at the point where they've been deprived of severance pay, and a job that's being expressed with hundreds of thousands of jobs in public and in private. The immediate resolution of this problem is one of the key priorities of the AK PARTI government, where workers are paid to compete in human honor, to have modern working conditions and to meet their demands at the point of protecting the most basic human rights of labor. Our view of working life is clear and clear: labor is a sacred right; it is one of the most basic human rights to struggle and maintain the right to labor. From the first day we came to power, especially at the point of democratisation of working life, we are able to see that we are taking very important steps to protect the right to labor. You know, in the days before the AK PARTI government, there was a coin being forced out of all employees and collected under the name Ishvik Fund. Prior to the AK PARTY authorities, the amount collected at the AK PARTI Fund was used as a means of restituting budget deficits, unfortunately, during the previous administrations, which were forced to be restored to them. Although there is no social demand for this, it is about 13.5 quadrillion, with its legal arrangement, that the government pays the workers back. It's also similar, as you all know, before the AK PARTI administrations, we're going to be forced to obtain funds from employees who have been cut off and employed under the name "Convention Aid" again. Unfortunately, the money saved in this fund, as a result of getting housing, has also been returned to employees in the period of the AK PARTI government. In this sense, at the point of the right of collective contract to civil servants at the point of the public employees' demand for collective agreements in this country, they have been asked to release their employment guarantees in return, but the legal arrangement, which makes sense in the period of our nation's social contract and collective agreement, as a result of the decision of the officers' right to a collective contract without having been touched, and also in the period of the AKPARTI agreement, which makes sense, as well as the collective contract of the general collective contract, the service contract and the agreement of local governments. There is a very important legal arrangement today that our Prime Minister has explained about employees at the EC PARTY group meeting. That is a statement from the Ministry of Health, which we describe as 4924, especially the 4/B contract staff, about the transfer of contract personnel to the staff. The total number of employees in both public institutions and in municipalities and in the Ministry of Health is up to 93, according to 4/B/B/ and 4924. As you all know, in 2011, the reassignment of about 200,000 4/B contracted personnel is also a legal arrangement in place of the contractualisation model during the AK PARTI administration. This is the 2011 arrangement, and I'd like to say that with the arrangement that our Prime Minister announced today, the process of deployment of nearly 300,000 contract personnel will be completed. The government has done some very important work on subcontractorization. The first was on November 1, 2012, while the other was held on November 15, 2012. One meeting was held at the head of our Minister of Labor, the sub-employee, which we refer to as Tasheron, with representatives of the labour associations; the other, both the representatives of the political party, whose group is in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the representatives of the employee and employer confederacy and representatives of the Union of Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges, and the problems of subcontractors have been identified, and the road map has been clearly established. In these meetings, the first agreement on the solution of the annual sabbatical problem of workers with sub-employees; second, the agreement reached at the point of legal guarantee of full and time payment; third, at the point of resolving the loss of seniority; we all know that there is a final agreement on this, as well as on the removal of obstacles to union organisation, and providing job security for post-military work. In particular, the job security of subcontractors, obstacles to unionisation, and most importantly, the lack of severance is now the main problem. Especially since the sub-employee has been working for a long time at the end of each year not to pay severance, but they've been putting their employees out of business, and then they're putting them back in business, and they're often not able to use their basic rights, which is one of their most basic rights -- even though there's no legal barrier -- to the freedom of union -- that they can't use because they don't have job security, I really think, we all agree on, as a problem that we see as a problem, and as a problem that we want to be resolved very quickly. In addition to these important provisions made by the AK PARTI governments, which have already made, up to this day, both at the point of mass contracting officers and at the point of business health and safety, and, as soon as the House opens, we will be able to meet the most fundamental, human demands of our fellow contractors, along with the legal arrangements that will be made, as soon as the council opens. I express my wish again in this matter, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0049par0208	Thank you, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0050par0209	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit02spe0049par0210	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit to your votes the National Party of Action Group, those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council for Counselling 25/6/2013 on Tuesday (now), the following proposal was approved by the General Assembly. Nurettin Canikli Emine Ültur Tarhan Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The agenda's 475th and 467th legislatures in "The Bill of Laws and Other Affairs From Commissions" are to be taken to the 4th and 5th places, and the order of other tasks is to be considered according to this; Turkey's Grand National Assembly continues its work on July 1, 2013, without taking a vacation, according to Article 5 of the Turkish Civil Charter; Continuing work on Tuesday (June 25th 2013) until the deadline for verbal questions is complete; It's 15 o'clock on Wednesday, June 26, 2013. Gathering at 00; Other than the week's workdays, 1 July 2013 was held at 1:00 p.m. on Monday (July 2013), and the agenda for this merger was to be discussed in the "Personal Affairs on Special Agement" section and to continue its talks until Monday (June 26, 2013) and the completion of talks on the Plan and Budget Commission talks on Wednesday (June 26, 2013). The Development Plan (2014-2018) will be held in three departments as part of the plan as part of the plan as part of the Turkish Grand National Assembly General Assembly, 30 minutes of the government and the Commission's talks, 30 minutes of the government's presentation, ten minutes of personal talks, more than one speaker could use the time of political party groups. The grounds for the extradition of the plan to the government, to the presidency by the end of the talks on the part of the plan, to the Commission, the government and the owner of the motion, are five minutes each, with verbal questions and other audit issues not discussed during Tuesday (July 2nd 2013). The election of the president of the TBM and the members of the Presidential Court will be held in this union and will continue to work until the election of the president of the TBMM and the members of the presidential court will be completed. The establishment of the Grand National Assembly Council of Turkey from 18 members, including the President, and the distribution of positions; 2 vice presidents of the Justice and Development Party Group; 2 executives, 6 clerks; 1 deputy chairman of the Republican People's Party Group; 1 executive member, 2 executive members; 1 vice president of the National Party of Action; 1 manager of the Party of Peace and Democracy; 1 manager of the Group; 03 and 04 July 2013, Wednesday and Thursday, 2400-21. Working between 00 hours; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily program cannot be completed at 00 p.m., it has been suggested that it continue its work until the completion of daily programmes; it is recommended that the Law Bill 475 rows be discussed as the main law according to Article 91, and that its sections be in the accompanying ruler. 475 Changes in Some Laws Regarding Numbered Judicial Services Bill of Laws to Be Done [[1/785]] Number of Articles in Sections Articles 1. Articles 1 - 17 2. Articles 18 - 34; Articles 17 I'd like to submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Oh, well, we're going fast. It's like when the TV show's over, things are back on track.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0051par0040	Your power is to us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0049par0041	Well, that's what happened. I asked you, and I said, "Secrets, let the speakers take care of this until the TV's over, and then everything is free, but it didn't happen." In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2/16 original number I gave you. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, I demand that the Commission be taken directly into consideration and put on the agenda, since the Law Proposal on the Monthly Amendments to Powerless and Unwanted Turkish Citizens of 2022 is not addressed in accordance with Article 37. Yours truly. 02/12/2011 Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0052par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the fact that the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Powerless Turkish Citizens, No. 65, No. 2022, has been taken into consideration under Article 37 of the Interior Charter, upon the lack of consultation in the relevant boards of our law proposal. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, in Iraq -- what we just learned -- there was a bomb attack in Tuzhurmatou, where the Turks were living heavily, while the Iraqi Turkmen Front Vice President and 18 Turkishmen brothers were killed. I strongly condemn the slaughter, ask for mercy on our dead, and pray for immediate healing for the wounded. The Law No. 2022 provides a salary for our disabled citizens and elderly, homeless, without social security, meaning that social state understanding is being fulfilled. Looking at the salaries of people in need with this law, between 40 and 69 per cent are given 251.1 lira for the disabled and 753 lira for the three-month-olds. The disabled will receive 376.7 lira per month and 1130 liras in three months. Older people over 65 and in need are given $125.8 a month and $377.4 a month. Congressmans, this amount of money given to these people in need is very inadequate. All of our citizens in the AKP's power were victims, their buying power was reduced, they were in debt, and, in turn, they were almost offended by the government and the world. According to KAMU-SEN, in May, one person's poverty limit is $1,787 per month and a family's minimum income is $3,583. When we look at the hunger limit, it's around $1.025. In addition, studies indicate that the cost needed for a family of four to be fed in a healthy manner -- according to 2013 data in May -- is $27.21 per day. As a result, studies have found that, based on 2013, from the first six months of the year, the limit of hunger and poverty has increased more each month than before. The poverty benefits have increased threefold since 2002 because the number of poor people in our country is increasing. In our country, the revenue of 80 per cent of the population and the income of 20 per cent rich groups are almost equal. As such, all social groups in the AKP's government are either sinking or going down. After all, all social areas are in great disquiet. Now that the results are clear, we ask the AKP authorities and the government: How are they going to live on small salaries for disabled people over 65 years of age, and how are they going to get out in public? Payments are far below the poverty line. These people are over a certain age, or disabled, in need of care. They owe money to banks, credit cards. How do you assess the situation, as the social state is told, taking care of the poor, of the poor, of the needy, of the needed. What will these people do, how will they live? Therefore, it is our legal proposal to pay at least as much as the minimum wage for people who are blocked and in need of more than 65 years in the National Movement Party's election declaration. Our proposal for the law, given the needs of these people, has been calculated and brought before you to live in a manner worthy of human honor. Unfortunately, since our proposal for the law is not discussed in the commissions, we offer it to you in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code. We expect the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly to bring up our proposal for law, and it will soon be legalised. If the government and AKP officials are not doing literature for the poor and the poor, all lawmakers must vote for it, we hope. Today, many people in our country suffer from their pensions to their employees. The farmer can't sell what he's producing, and he's getting poorer every day. Among other things, poor people over 65 years of age cannot breathe, and the help they receive from the government is not the answer to their problems. The one who's fine, the one who doesn't need it, no one will stoop to taking it. If necessary, a number that will see the need must be paid to our citizens within the understanding of the social state. This should be as much as minimum wage, and it should increase with an increase in minimum wage. The law awaits your support of our proposal, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0053par0066	Thank you. Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0054par0070	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the Law Proposal on the Monthly Resolving of Law to the People of the Weak and the Unwanted Turkish Citizens, who are now 65 years old, number 2022. I salute your high council. Turkish citizens, who have reached 65 years of age, who have no legal guardians, who have no income or monthly rights from any social security agencies, who have not been able to benefit from any income or monthly rights, who have not been able to get alimony or commit, who have no direct income or direct right income, and who have proved their need for the county through documents of social welfare and solidarity. On the other hand, the pensions which have been paid are between $251 and $376 per month, with the report from health care institutions, which prove that they can't continue their lives without the help of anyone else, which turns 18 years old, and the disabled who have not been placed on any job by law, and the disabled relatives who have not completed 18 years of age. These costs are far from satisfying human needs. These months, both old and disabled, intended to solve a very serious social problem for today, remained like an ear on a camel, unfortunately, in an environment where the 12-pound kitchen tube is 68.50 cents. Especially those of our people who have had trouble paying their electricity and water bills these past few years, and the rent of their homes has been very difficult. It's inevitable that these people, who aren't getting enough to eat, often get sick. They say there's no cure for road money. It doesn't leave a social citizen hungry or exposed, nor should it. Dear lawmakers, the assessment of these months is still on the basis of budget law every year. With this proposed amendment, the monthly salary will be indexed to minimum wage, and will be able to move to today's conditions a little. More than any political debate, I expect you to stand firm on this law and support it. First, we need to give our disabled jobs and ensure that they contribute to our economy. Very serious surveillance and sanctions must be carried out as to the immediate filling of disability quotas in both the public and the private sector. In our country, as of March 2013, we still have 1,242, 461 citizens who deserve to receive elderly pensions and disability pensions, which is very important. Come, dear lawmakers, let us all increase the income of these citizens. Because our citizens don't have any other income. The strong and social state must take care of the strange guruba, the poor poor poor, the elderly, the disabled under certain circumstances. We shouldn't pretend to own it, we shouldn't exploit it, and we should never rub it in our people's faces. I ask you to support our offer in these thoughts and feelings, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0055par0082	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, we're going to move on to the part of the agenda with the oral questions. (x) The oral question motions are not read and are included in the report. Congressmans, as I stated in the presentation section, I would like to call Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar to the stand to answer the oral questions he wants to answer together. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's do this, Mr. Secretary: There's an hour, 50 minutes, you answer the questions, and ten minutes, we promise our friends who want to ask questions from where they sit. It'll take an hour and ten minutes in total. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0056par0186	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to respond to verbal question motions submitted to my ministry. I hereby salute your high council. I'm starting with Mr. Ensar Öğüt. Mr. Ensar Öğüt, who has submitted to our Ministry of Justice (6/102) the main question concerning the alleged passwords on the Passing to Higher Education Exam. The process of investigation warrants for the crimes committed by officers and other public officials is organised in Law Article 4483 on the Trial of Officers and Other Public Servants. The number of public officials who have been shown in Article 3 of the law -- separate from different administrative tasks -- can be determined by the evaluation of the information available to all these authorities, which is required to be allowed to investigate them. There is no high-level public official who has been asked to be investigated except for the president of the Student Selection and Placement Centre for the 2011 University Passment Exam. Antalya MP Arif Bulut (6/287): The licenses for construction in zoning areas in Antalya Kash district of Tetovo district have been revoked by the Shield Municipality and have also been filed against the authorities as to those responsible. İstanbul MPs Mr. Süleyman Çelebi and Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu (6/380) are the main question proposals: Planning on Lake Yakos and the basin of important drinking water in Istanbul is conducted by İstanbul Mayorate, under regulations related to İSKI Law 2560 and on this law. In accordance with the request, the Ministry provides all support for the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi (6/448)'s main question motion (6/448) is: The removal of the borders of 5 urban transformation areas on the 1/1000-scale plans for zoning in the District of Bağcıler on September 15, 2008, has been approved on December 7, 2010 and district council order 152, and the İstanbul Metropolitan Council's Decision on December 17, 2010 and 2814 has been ratified. In addition, the removal of the herifes in the parcels of the urban transformation area, which was cancelled on May 4, 2011, has been reported to the Unioners Tapu Directorate, but the removal of any harm on the deed's record can be carried out under Article 4721 in accordance with Article 1014/3 of the Turkish Civil Code. Therefore, the removal of the sherbet will be possible only with the written request of the relevant local administration. The task of combining parcel applications and zoning permits in municipalities is not in the Ministry's name, but in the respective municipalities. Mr. President, the high-profile MPs, Mr. Zühal Topcu and Mr. Ismet Büanataman (6/615) and (6/3425) are the main questions: the number of civil servants employed according to the State Officers Act 657 in our ministry's central and rural establishment is 9.817, and the total number of officers employed according to the Law of State Officers is 15,423. Of all the staff employed in our ministry, the number of officers in the disabled staff is 269, while the number of officers in our association, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate is 413. Our ministry does not receive disabled personnel in 2012, and we have 62 vacant staff. Our ministry will assess the issue of the employment of disabled personnel within the framework of the relevant legislation. In our binding agency, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, 81 disabled officers are scheduled to be taken into custody. Minister of İzmir Mehmet Ali Sesam (6/990)'s main question motion is: Based on Article 11 of the Environmental Law 2872, it has been drafted by the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Council of Ministers and Local Governments to be followed by the provision of Disposal Infrastructure and Home Level Bertaraf Facility Recipients. Under the regulation referred to, municipalities are obliged to determine and collect the fee for their waste water and domestic waste services. The cancellation of this regulation is not on the agenda of our Ministry. Ghaziantep MP Mr. Dr. Mehmet Şaltağin (6/1963) main question motion: Our ministry and its units have been provided with 20,155 euros in payment for the winners, provided after the competition, which was designed by the emblem and logo design of the logo. The newly formed emblem was also paid $23,589 for such transactions as the Ministry flag, the flag, and the flag, where logo design was implemented. The design manual for the design of our ministry and other agencies' institutional identity has also been distributed to an eighty-one environmental and urban administration, and the design manual is $42,000, and no payment has been made for the promotion and stationery materials available in the design book. The answer to the main question motion of İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer (6/2623) is: Intercontinental water supplying water and drinking to the Metropolitans is the responsibility of city municipalities in accordance with Law 2560. The fourth group, the size of 190 hectares in the area of Kartal district of İstanbul district of Paşaköy, is not necessary on 28 January 2009 by İstanbul Environment and Forest Province Directorate for the planned sandstone-carrier and cremation-structuring plant on the 24th and 64 hectares of the mined field. However, the CED decision is not only a permit but is a process where the expected environmental impacts of a planned activity are evaluated. On the other hand, the Ministry of Energy and Resources is responsible for determining the inventory and reserves of the mines. Mr. President, the valuable MPs are Mr. Namik Havutça (6/274) and (6/688) the main answer to the questions proposed by Balıkesir Municipality and Susurlik, Ivrindi, Kepsut, Battletepe, Bigadic districts members of the Balıkesir Retainable Environment Management Association, and the construction project is under construction on 4 October 2012. Also, the construction of a solid reference facility designed by the Co-ordinatories of Haven, Ayvaluk, Edremit, Gömec, Burhaniye, Grandadre, Karadiz, Altizoluk, Akçay, Oliveli, Kadıköy, Güre, Pelitköy, Altınova and Küçükköy, was designed by the Association of Bays of Coves, and will be carried out as part of the European Union Investment Agency. Again, efforts are being carried out to select locations for the solid waste disposal plant of the South Marmara Municipality, which was established with the participation of the municipalities of Bandirma, Erdek, Edincik, Januarys and Küzyaka. So far, various aid has been made by our Ministry for the removal of environmental pollution to municipalities and troops in the district of Balıkesir, and studies are being carried out for further assistance. If requested, a list of these benefits can be presented to the Congressman. The question (6/688) is: Precious lawmakers have two energy production facilities in the Erdek Bay region that are subject to the Environmental Effect Evaluation Act. In 2008, the BED positive decision was made with our Ministry in 2011 for the Bandırma First Plant and for the Bandırma Two Plants. A total of 66 stations in the Sea of Marmara, including five in the Erdek Bay region, are being monitored as part of the study of pollution in the seas conducted by our ministry. According to the monitoring results in the Erdek Bay region, there has been no increase in temperature beyond seasonal changes. According to the monitoring work done at the Sea of Marmara, the areas in the mouth of Erdek Bay watch stations are defined as areas of high variety and not affected by pollution. In addition, the monitoring results show a high abundance of fish at the entrance to Erdek Bay. Marine water analyses are being conducted twice a year to observe changes that CED positive facilities can make, and they are preserved. Kütahya MP Mr. Professor Dr. Alim Izwar (6/350) and (6/812) motions by the Public Housing Administration in 2002: 440 in 2003, 240 in 2004, 424 in 2005, 424 in 2006, 522 in 2007, 457 in 2008, 595 in 2010, 670 in 2010, 796 in 2011 and 710 in 2012, the total investment price of these tenders is 49 billion euros. A detailed tender will be submitted to you if you are asked for detailed information on the jobs of companies that receive the largest hundred tenders of the public tender, which have been concluded by the public tender code 4734, and on matters that TOKI has concluded under the income sharing model in exchange for the sale of land. In addition, it is not possible to give them a priority because there is no regulation on public tender law 4734 and secondary legislation for local companies in the tender districts. The main question motion (6/812) was: Work has been carried out between 1999 and 2011 in the district of Simav, and studies have been carried out in accordance with the geological-geotechnical study reports and the ground ethics reports. After the Simav earthquake, Simav City's demand for the ilBANK General Directorate, which is our ministry's relevant organisation, has already been completed at $55,500. The ground study and so on will be evaluated by our Ministry at the request of the municipality. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri (6/3096), (6/3539) and (6/3616): Our ministry has authorized the mayors of the Environment Act 2872, particularly the Coast Guard Command, as well as the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, İstanbul, Kovaleli, Antalya and Mersin Metropolitan Mayors, as part of the Environment Act 2872. In this framework, authorities carry out their audit work for 24 hours on the basis and perform criminal procedures for ships that cause sea pollution. Between 2007-2012, a total of 2575 ships were sentenced to $55,980,727. The answer to the main question motion (6/3539): the amount of waste motor oil collected in Ankara is 1,353 tonnes in 2007, 1,242 tonnes in 2008, 1,772 tons in 2009, 1,627 tonnes in 2010, 2,085 tonnes in 2011 and 1.553 tons in 2012. The amount of waste herbal oil collected in Ankara is 472 tonnes in 2009, 396 tonnes in 2010, 299 tonnes in 2011, and 1,078 tonnes in 2012. Under Article 13 of the Law on Control of Waste Oil, the Petroleum Industry Association (PETDER) was authorized by the Ministry on 4 September 2008 to collect waste motor oil. Ankara does not have any irregularities about waste motor oil and plant fat collection. The answer to the main question motion (6/3616): A total of 46,056 dwellings were made in Ankara and districts between 2007 and 2013, as of 29 April 2013, by the head of the Public Housing Administration. Between 2007-2013, a total of 42,397 dwellings were sold in Ankara and its districts by the Chairman of the Public Housing Administration, and a total of 4 billion 399m, 371,596 euros. As of April 29, 2013, there are 4,465 flats in Ankara districts and districts that have not been sold. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Mr. Kamer Yüğin (6/391), (6/399), (6/2699) and (6/2000). In accordance with the terms of the contract, the incomplete and flawed productions after the payment of the dwellings were completed by the contractor, provided by the reputation and account commission. Therefore, the contractor's collateral has not been registered. However, if incomplete and imperfect productions are revealed after certain acceptance, it is possible that the contractor's guarantees will be recorded with the aim of resolving them. Question 6/391) The Zonguldak Tekığirmenı district had 160 dwellings, 1 commercial centers and mosque construction and construction of the island's general infrastructure and environmental arrangement, 7 million 510,000 euros in tenders, and the Kübra Construction Exchange Limited, and the construction had been completed, and the construction had been handed over to its shareholders. The President of the Public Housing Authority 4734 was subject to the Public Contraction Act, and all contracts were carried out under this law. The tenders are open to all requests, no assessments are made over the political identities, opinions of participants, and such criteria. In addition, ads for tenders are announced in national and local newspapers with a public tender bulletin. However, the jobs that the Public Housing Authority tenders in exchange for the sale of land are also under regulations, which means they are under open tenders, not under Law 4734, but in accordance with regulations. Information on contractors and projects is also announced on the Internet page of the TOKI presidency. (6/394) The main question is: A total of 636 employees are working in the Public Housing Administration's Office, and most of them are technical staff. The recruitment of personnel is carried out on March 7, 2011, with an entrance examination under the Perimeter of the Service Conventions on Contracted Employees to Be Worked in the Office of the Public Housing Administration, which entered into force. The Public Housing Administration's Office operates its practices on all domestic activities through the work of staff in its own hands. However, in the process of construction of nearly 570,000 dwellings, including social utensils and environmental arrangements in 81 counties and 800 districts in a short period of ten years, it is also purchased control services from consulting firms to ensure that the current jobs are conducted without interruption. The main question (6/2699) is: A four-way protocol has been signed between the district's animal stables, slums, and illegal structures within the borders of Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality and the mayor of Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality. In this area, the rights holders of the region have been given the necessary allocations of the dwellings built by TİKİ in the area of the gentlemen's housing area and in the area of Çaybaş Agriköy. The protocols have determined that the production costs of the city's municipality for the projects mentioned and that the exchanges and cycles will be carried out over the current Rayic prices in the assessment reports made by the Capital Market Board of some of the move-ins needed by TOKI and Metropolitan Municipality. Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality's expenditures should be paid in cash by TOKİ, while the same way is preferred, as well as the same way, given the financial balance of the TOKI. After this disbursement, the debt left to the TOKIKİ (TİKI) to Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality was paid to 128 municipalities from the dwellings built by TOKI (TİKİ) in the DÜssorut district to pay off the debt. There is no public damage, as alleged, between the TİKI and the Gaziantep Organised Industry District, the Şehtkamil Mayor and Gaziantep Metropolitan Mayor, and the protocol launched on 28 August 2004. The main question (6/2700) is: Under the North Ankara Initiative Urban Transformation Project Act 5104, the project was established in 2004 as part of the Urban Transformation Project in areas covering the entrance and environment of Northern Ankara. No fee is being paid contrary to High Planning Board decisions, and because the YPK decisions do not include municipalities, municipal representatives on the Governing Body are not assessed in this scope, and the number of members of the Governing and Control Board is not considered to be reduced. Ömer Faruk Ercies, Nurhan Mermer and Umi Long, who are in charge of the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, are a member of the Board of Management and Control.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0057par0215	You've counted three, there's 10 board members, you've counted three.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0056par0216	You've asked for 3 of them, you've asked for the municipality.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0057par0217	Sir?
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0056par0218	You asked about the town hall.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0057par0219	Okay, so the staff of the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0056par0220	The others are from TOKI, and their wages are already low.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0057par0221	Tell me if Suat Kılıç's wife also works here.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0056par0222	Mr. President, the high-value MPs, Mr. Oktay Ozturk (6/3540), (6/3541), (6/3601), and (6/3602) are the main question proposals: The relevant projects have been submitted to the Ministry's Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ankara Cultural and Stabilisation Development Regional Council, and the required approvals for the construction of the project. The restoration application was carried out in accordance with the necessary permits and approvals for the project and instructions approved by the board. There is no public harm due to the failure of a new production and repairs. There is no criminal action carried out by the board. (6/3541), (6/3600), (6/3601) and (6/3602) are the answers to the main questions: determining the nature of the members in appointments to the governing boards of banks, assessing and auditing the legislation of appointments are on the Banking Editing Board. Attorney Serdar Çukkan, Uğur Serencam and Dr. Bajram Keskin have been notified of their appointment as members of the Governing Body and their appointment in Law 5411 has been seen as appropriate because they have carried the required conditions, and the appointments have been held within the framework of ilBANK and banking legislation. The regulation shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers, which shall be issued in Article 11 of the Law on the Bank of Provinces No. 6107, and shall then be adopted under the regulations imposed by the Governing Body on the appropriate view of State Staff President of Law 6306. The Human Resources Regulation prepared for this coverage was sent to the State Chief of Staff for necessary opinions, and the regulation was put into effect after the State Chief of Staff gave the appropriate opinion. There is no law against implementing such regulations. As a matter of fact, the Court's report states that there was no conflict in the matter during the meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's KCE Subcommittee on the subject of the ilBANK Human Resources Charter, and the matter has been removed from the proposals department. ilBANK is not among those assigned to sign as members of Banking Law No. 5411 who do not carry the conditions specified in the drafts of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Banking Law. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash (6/545), (6/1198), (6/2496), and (6/2907) main question proposals: The wastewater treatment facility planned by the Mayor of Kahramanmarash is capable of providing service to 1,520,000 people. The CED process of the 49m-euro project under the European Union's IPA programme was completed on 16 June 2011, and was adopted by the European Union Commission in June 2012. The tender for the project is scheduled for 2013. (6/1198) The main question is: Our ministry has five vets who have been taken over from the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and are on the same staff. The Ministry's Law on Rise and Change of Title is published in the Official Gazette, January 21, 2012, and the regulation is not subject to the victimizing of veterinary physicians. However, if needed, an arrangement can be made to include veterinary physicians in the rules. The main question, Mr. President (6/1679), is that the valuable lawmakers were brought in for the successors of the project in the Building Control Appliance Rule, which, according to the project, will give the contract of commitment to the building control agency that its membership in the professional room instead of its competent registration certificate, is that it has no professional constraints. Instead of receiving a registration certificate from project owners, it is an application in favour of the service and to reduce bureaucracy, and regular checks by administrations and relevant vocational rooms will prevent the abuse of this practice, as may be the legal and criminal responsibility of those who have been found to have made a false statement. The main question (6/2496) is: The reuse of waste in all the legal regulations that constitute environmental legislation, especially in 2872, as material and energy, is considered one of the principles of primary management, promoting recovery activities, improving technical and administrative competencies, which are licensed to contribute both to the economy and to the environment. According to national data on recycling, some 4,000 people were employed in the 46 recycling plant in 2003, and some 60,000 people were employed at the 898 recycling plant in 2011 and increased over 1 billion euros per year as a result of recycling activities. Recovery and disposal facilities, which provide technical and administrative competency criteria under environmental legislation, are licensed. At the end of 2012, there are 956 environmentally licensed recycling facilities and 97 environmentally licensed disposal facilities. Increased environmental licensed facilities and further contribution to the country's economy and environmental protection. The main question (6/2907) is: In Article 152 of State Officers' Law 657, additional special service compensation can be paid for the end of the term, in addition to 60 points per day, based on their staff. The issue is that the additional special service compensations are paid without delay in all departments belonging to our ministry, after the actual work that is essential to paying is controlled and approved by the department's commanding officer. There is no shortage of funding for these payments in our ministry, but there is no demand from our units in this direction. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Ali Halaman (6/486), (6/753), (6/1242), (6/1221), (6/3221), and (6/3261) are the main questions proposed by the mayoral municipalities (6/3557): it is not our ministry's responsibility and responsibility for the pursuit of illegal construction; it is the responsibility and responsibility of the municipalities of the capital city in large cities, under the Law of Metropolitan Municipality 5216. Adana has 2,70km of canals, 230km of rainwater and a total of 3,000km of water networks and 6,028km of drinking water networks, according to the Adana Water and Sewering Administration. All these systems are closed systems and serve 98 percent of the city center. In the last seven years, the IIBANK has used a total of 73,955,000 euro loans for the purchase of buses to the Adana Metropolitan Municipality, and for the construction of the municipal service building, in support of the infrastructure deficits of our Adana province, and in 2007, the $1,640,000 projects were made by us. As in Turkey, urban transformation projects for our province of Adana are based on maximum monitoring of public interest. The development plan, which ensures the safety of lives and goods, continues to be audited by our ministry's institutions through building control firms 4708, to build quality structures in accordance with the rules of science, art and health, and standards. (6/753) The main question is: Up until now, almost 570,000 dwellings and thousands of social donuts have been built by TOKI in accordance with government policies. About 28,000 complaints have been reviewed and the necessary procedures have been processed. Most of the complaints are shortcomings and flaws that can't be detected during manufacturing by the contractor company, but during the use of buildings. The complaints are being processed in place by TOKI or the consulting company, and if the complaint is found to be caused by production errors, the contractor is being rushed to the firm or collected from the contractor's name and account. TRYING to establish the consciousness of buying a dwelling in Turkey, TOKI has taken a special interest in customer satisfaction, evaluates complaints from homeowners, and has developed the project to measure customer satisfaction. It is also intended that both management and citizens will try to maintain the quality of production and material in a way that does not force their material power, and that the highest quality of the dwelling will find its owners in the best possible conditions. The main questions (6/1242) and (6/1243) are: The border values specified by the Ministry for emissions in the Yamanlı village of Yakklı, Adana Province, are mandatory. In this regard, administrative sanctions will be imposed by our ministry, which are set up in the legislation if the limits given by regulations cannot be met. The planned lignite-fueled thermal plant project was given a positive CED decision by the Multi-Earth and Forestry Ministry on February 15, 2006, and there is no court order issued to our Ministry for the halting or aborting of this decision. The project's CED report was prepared by a company qualified by our Ministry. In addition, the audits and controls related to the project will be carried out in the construction and business phase under the relevant legislation. There is no containment field in the area of the project. The nearest protected area is the Orbbean Canyon, a wildlife development site about 17km northwest of the project site. The ash, which will occur in the process of operating the plant, will be used during the refinished coal mines. There is no charge for wastewaters in the receiving environment. The bet is that the construction control company has been set up and started the project. The main question (6/1621) is that detailed information on air pollution is systematically published on our ministry's website in the Air Quality Evaluation Department. Our provinces, Afyon, Siirt, and Gaziantep, which exceeded border values for a short time in 2011. The fact that these vaccins are in particulate matter indicates that they are caused by desert dust. In 2011, there was no pollution in the province of Adana that exceeded the limits of air quality. As part of the fight against air pollution, necessary measures have been taken and regulations have been issued by the Ministry to preserve air quality. In addition, projects are being conducted to help create and implement legislation in this direction, and the National Clean Air Action Plan was published in 2010. The rules that must be followed to achieve the goals set in these regulations are reported to the districts and governors, and the necessary audits are made by governors and authorized municipalities. The analysis results of the samples taken in the audits on the banning and use of low-calorie and high-instrument coals are collected if the Ministry is not compatible with the limits. The main questions are (6/3261) and (6/3557): FROM 2003 to 2013, the president of TOKI started production of 568,647 dwellings. FROM 2001, the ISO 9001 Quality Management System procedure conducted two surveys each year under the name "External and Internal Customer Gratuity Survey" and customer satisfaction polls via receiving services at the national level, if needed. According to the polls conducted on 37,241 customers who have received a dwelling from the TOKI (TİKİ) over the past five years, the overall level of satisfaction has been estimated to be 65 per cent. In addition, there have been 12,912 dwellings and 4 trading centres in the province of Adana, which will reach 19.422. Between 2006 and 2013, some 574 real estate transactions took place in Adana province. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers (6/912) of the Reshad Bank (6/1123), (6/1246), (6/1471), (6/2364), (6/2664), (6/2684), (6/32111) and (6/32122) are the main question proposals: The House Administration has started production of more than 560,000 dwellings in the 800 districts, and has completed most of them in 2003-2012. The TOKI projects have 21,581 lawsuits filed by buyers due to the late delivery of dwellings until December 31, 2012. Due to delays in housing deliveries, the total compensation paid to the rightful owners by December 31st 2012 is 110 million 693,092 TL. In addition to these cases, there are 2,119 lawsuits filed against the Turkish Cypriot presidency as of December 31, 2012, on the grounds that there are missing and flawed jobs in the surrendered dwellings, and compensation is paid in the case of the courts in favour of the plaintiff. The number of housing buyers sent to the TOKI presidency is 1,749. ON March 4, 2013, there were only 1,298 buyers in Turkey who signed a real estate sale agreement under the public housing practices of the TOKI. Due to their failure to pay the mortgage payments, there are only 523 of the 570,000 dwellings in Turkey that are being sued for eviction and whose cases are in trouble. (6/1123) The main question is: Our country sided with the United Nations Convention on Climate Change on 24 May 2004 and with the Kyoto Protocol on 26 August 2009. Between 2008-2012, the first term of the protocol, a numerical greenhouse gas emissions reduction or restrictions are not required, and our country contributes to global efforts on climate change within its own resources and special circumstances. Our country is determined to aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from one side, but on the other, to provide economic development with a greater focus on clean production technologies and less energy in unit production, within the framework of sustainable development. In this framework, the National Climate Change Strategy, the Climate Change Action Plan and Climate Change Integration Strategy were completed by co-ordinating our Ministry of Climate Change, and our efforts to prepare the Second National Declaration of Climate Change continue. As a result of studies since 1990, greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 20 per cent in our country. The total amount of emissions reduced is estimated to be around 1.4 million tonnes. The main question (6/1246) is: According to data from the measurement station found in Tokat, air pollution 2009, 2010 and 2011 are below the limit average for winter averages and particle matter in 2009, 2010 and 2011. In addition, the province of Tokat is under proper inspections of air quality pollution and control by our Ministry, and sanctions provided by relevant legislation are required as a result of these audits. The main question (6/1471) is: The wastewater supply of businesses in the Tokat Organised Industrial Zone is connected to the sewage system of the organised industrial region, and the sewage system of the Tokat City's waste water treatment system. No wastewater discharges are involved in the receiver environment. In the organised industrial region, there is no business that does not comply with environmental laws. The main question is: Muammar Tuksavul Turhal Sugar Factory and Özdemir Antimuan Mines Factory in Tokat Governorate of Tokat Turhal district has been informed that wastewater treatment facilities have been found and that no criminal action has been carried out in the factories since they established wastewater treatment facilities. Other businesses in Turhal district are connected to the Turhal Municipality's sewage system, and the audits for wastewater control are under the regulations in the factories and production facilities within the province of Tokat. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are entitled to the inheritance of undisclosed agricultural land in the latest joke of Article 8 (the Law on Land Protection and Land Use) and Article 5403 of Turkish Civil Law 4721, and the property of the land shall not be destroyed, nor can it be sold to third parties, if it is in any way carried out on them. The provisions for the privatisation of the Turkish Civil Law, number 4721, are carried out in comparison. There is no study conducted by our Ministry on these provisions, and studies are being carried out by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. (6/2684) The main question motion was: In 1988, 367 barrels were found on the Black Sea coasts, including 152. The analysis revealed toxic chemical waste in the barrels. In 1994, our country sided with the Basel Convention on controlling the cross-border transport and disposal of hazardous waste. Under this contract, on August 27, 1995, the Control of Dangerous Waste was issued. After that, initiatives were launched in the Italian government, which was the country in 2003 to address the problem, a joint co-operation committee was established between the two countries, but no results could be taken on the international platform as to the extradition of the waste to Italy, which is the private country, despite the fact that it was brought to an international agenda. However, with our ministry's efforts and efforts, the rehab study of the barrels was completed in 2006, and the barrels were eliminated through the SAVA company in Germany in 2007. The main question motion (6/3211) was: A total fine of $260,665,574 euros was imposed on individuals and institutions in accordance with Environmental Law No. 2872 between 2008 and 2012. The main question motion (6/3212) is that our ministry invests in the environment, such as sewers, wastewater treatment and solid waste storage facilities in our provinces, and provides the necessary support for local administrations running these investments. Information that shows the distribution of environmental investments according to the provinces can be presented to them at the request of our MP. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Ismet Bünataman (6/3164), (6/3215), (6/3418), (6/3419), (6/3420), (6/34212), (6/3422), (6/3422), and (6/3424) are the main question proposals: 45 people were appointed to the exception staff of our Ministry from 2002 to 2002-2013. There are 29 personnel assigned to the government office. (6/3215) The main question is: From 2002 to April 2013, our ministry spent $844,339 as representation costs. (6/3417) The main question is: The Ministry of Ministers and Organizations have been given a place in the administration to come before the ministers and after the ministers of Law Article 3046 with Article 21/A and before the undersecretaries. In this respect, our Deputy Minister has been able to participate in all the business and operations required by our Ministry, opening and so forth, and so far he has made a total of four foreign missions, including the Turkish Republics of Northern Cyprus, Qatar and Germany. (6/3418) The main question is: Our ministry has made it suitable for disabled ramps, disabled elevators, elevators, block entrances, and disabled WC and sinks to be renovated, and the use of disabled persons within the framework of the Law and the laws laid out based on this law. In addition, the building's interiors have been replaced with door handles, electric buttons, stair monitors, steering plates, and warning plates, and parking spaces for disabled persons. The arrangements for disabled persons were made with the general repairs of the buildings, and no expense was made. In 2012, we received $1,297,755 euros and $2,896,920 grants in order to make our municipal offices available to the disabled. (6/3419) The main question is: Two buildings have been rented for some of our ministry's central service units and the annual rent costs totalling 3 million 576,090 euros. In addition, $300,000 per year is paid for the Istanbul Department of Infrastructure and Urban Transmutation Services and $200,232 per year for the Centre for the Fresh Air in Marmara. (6/3420) The main question, Mr. President, is that 307 vehicles were rented in 2012 and paid $6,293,149 a year under the provisions of Public Contraction Act 4734, to be used in the services of our ministry's central and rural service. In 2013, a total of 347 vehicles, including 54 of them driving, 293 of them driving, were rented and will be paid $12 million,031,896 a year. The main question (6/3421) is: Between 2012 and 2013, a total of $2,014,554 euro was spent on public advertising, public spotlights, flyers, and similar purchases of goods and services in order to create the awareness of environmental and urbanism for our ministry's activities and to ensure awareness of urban transformation.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0058par0256	Now, Minister, let's finish in a minute, and then I'll agree with my friends who will ask questions.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0056par0257	Thank you. (6/3422) The main question is: 8 of the 113 foreign tours I took as Minister from September 2011, while the others, as head of our Prime Minister, along with the delegations of bureaucrats of my Ministry. During these visits, our foreign contacts were given small souvenirs with no economic value. (6/3423) The main question is: Between 2012 and 2013, there are 91 cases filed against our Ministry's staff for change of office and so on. 66 of these cases have been in trouble, 16 motions have been dismissed, and 9 cases have been dismissed. There are also one lawsuits filed against the staff by the Ministry.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0059par0260	Yes, thank you. Now, I'll take you, get some rest. I've got five friends asking questions, you'll write them down, then I'll invite them back to the stand. I'll give you 10 minutes to answer the questions asked by these five of our friends. Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0060par0262	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary through you. He answered my question, but he answered the second part, saying, "We do not intend to cancel the relevant regulation." There's multiple taxation on the cost of solid waste. You never mentioned repeated taxation. At the moment, high prices are being taken on the cost of solid waste; one. Two: I have a question about the fountain. For the purpose of building a dwelling in Reisdere, your local planning headquarters gave a multi-story building. Since these two-story areas are the city of tourism, you are facing many-layer buildings with the value of tourism and the image of the Fountain. In this regard, when you came to İzmir, you said that it would not be done, but your Local Planning General Directorate gave this to you. Even Mr. Prime Minister says that these high-rises are disrupting the characteristics of cities, and I think it's not right for him to authorize and suspend the tourist city of Cesme (TİKİ) to come up with such a plan.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0059par0264	Dear Light.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0061par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Even after about two years, I'd like to thank the Minister for his answer. Now, it seems that in 2002, within the last decade of the last decade, the TOKI has made nearly 5,000 tenders, which have come to a thousand in recent years, and has dominated 50 billion euros. Due to these growing tenders, the quality of the construction and corruption of the process have become unregistered. These tenders made by TOKI have failed to answer our question and your ministry's opinion. For example, a contractor who tries to rule from Istanbul to Antalya is lost there after he has victimized many people. Similar to this, there are serious quality flaws in the construction of the TOKI. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0062par0269	That's right.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0063par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country in recent years, sudden floods have been found, again, in large quantities of falling, sudden rains, tornadoes, and a number of meteorological events that have never been seen before. Have you done any work on this climate change as the Ministry? It has just been mentioned that the Kyoto Protocol has been followed, but there is information that greenhouse gases emissions have increased in our Turkey in recent years. Secondly, the Tokat district of Tokat was built in places where the AK PARTY municipalities were located, but there were no TOKI constructions, such as Erbaa, Reshadiye, and no AK PARTI municipalities. Do you plan to build a building in these areas related to TOKI? In addition, can such assistance be given to municipalities that build like TOKI where the TOKI does not? I mean, they do the same job, even less than the TOKI, and they can sell cheaper housing to people. What can you say in that direction? And as for the other thing, in particular...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0064par0276	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0065par0277	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, I want to thank you for your answers to Adana. Again, my question is about Adana. There's a stadium in Adana -- 25 to 30,000 -- called January 5th. Now, it is said in public that this January 5th stadium will be taken up and replaced by AVM, and the new stadium will be held outside the city. It's almost like the Metropolitan will do it, like the Department of Urbanism. As Minister of Urbanism, do you find it correct that this January 5th Stadium should be removed and replaced by the AVM, or can you instruct that it should not be done? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0066par0280	Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0067par0281	Mr. Minister, air pollution is on the rise because of the filters from our Kahramanmarash Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant. Our people who live in that area -- Elbia, Afşin, and our country presidents -- especially because of air pollution in the Pluralhan region, our citizens are losing their lives, dying of cancer. For two years, we've made huge requests from you at the filter point of this place, at the point of the filtering, the regeneration of its filter. So far, no study has been done, where air pollution has reached extreme stages. What do you think about that today, Minister of Environment and Urbanism?
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0066par0282	Mr. Secretary, please. Now I'll give you ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0068par0285	Mr. President, I salute you all again, highly valued lawmakers. The question of Mr. Sesame is: "There are multiple taxes on solid waste." I'll look into it, but we'll change our current regulations, and we'll consider these demands, and we'll take the necessary criticism. It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. It's wrong. We're also changing the regulations, simplifying them, so let me make that clear. I know that the plan we made at Izmir Cesme is 6.50, so if I'm wrong, I'll look at it, and I'll give you the answer. I mean, I know the altitude in the fountain is 6.50, and I know it's very low. You mean, there's more zoning there?
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0069par0288	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0068par0289	We approved the plan, but I know it at 6.50, and there were more complaints.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0069par0290	Where you've changed, the plan has already allowed twice as many structures...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0068par0291	I mean, I know it's two floors. My information may be wrong, I'll look into it and let you know. The question of Mr. Light is: WHEN TOKI made a tender in 2002... we made it, of course. In December 2002, I came on duty, and in December, we made a tender. Before us, there were no tenders, only two finishing jobs in Ankara Eryaman. In İzmir Mavişehir, there were repair jobs for villas from the Bank of Real Estates. Later, these tenders increased over the years as saris, and hopefully they'll continue on their way to TOKI more and more, and continue to produce housing awareness, cheap housing in our country. However, I've answered to the contractors in his district, and I'll answer again: there's no such thing in the law, so how are we going to do that, Mr. Alim, Mr. Hodja?
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0070par0294	But Mr. Secretary, you've changed this law a hundred times, the Public Contraction Act, and let's do that, the people there have lost their jobs.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0068par0295	I mean, it's impossible to do that. Nor shall there be such a law, that thou shalt go and do it in Ardahan, and do it in Edirne, and in Edirne, but in the matter of the matter, when the merchant giveth his property, he shall be discreet, and will not give it.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0070par0296	But he thinks I'm giving it to the government. He thinks I'm giving it to the government, trusts it to him.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0068par0297	Is there any doubt about it? Zan and the verdict are nowhere to be found. But I'll take that under advisement. Harder, at the point of sanctioning contractors... the contractor says, "What do I owe you, do I owe you, do I do my job?" I don't owe him anything. They come and say so.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0070par0298	Mr. Secretary, there's no problem with the top, the main override, but when it goes into the subcontractor, it's a real victim.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0068par0299	We'll take care of them, I'll take care of them, I'll present him. In recent years, Mr. Right has been involved in floods and other natural events that have not occurred before. It's being studied in this world and in Turkey, my dear fellow lawmakers. But some academics, scientists, and some institutions, some labs can explain it, and others can't. For example, America opposes it, China opposes it, and on the other hand, Norway says: "Sel cases are from climate change." There is no clear data on these things in Turkey. Hopefully, we'll have a much clearer data forward. Now, tell me something, fellas, whatever party that's demanding us from, we'll build housing there, and if it happens after that, we'll do it again, and if the municipalities cost less, we'll help them, and we'll help them as Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. In that regard, we have built a lot of dwellings in Tokat, and we will continue to do so. The question Mr. Halaman asked is: It's not my position, I don't know the exact subject. So, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has no project to make a status in Adana. Anyway, my Ministry is a designer ministry and a controlling ministry. I mean, we're appraisers, but in an audit style, it's a full-on, directional, generalized, zoning plan, overseeing. We don't do direct construction as construction, so we don't do construction, except in construction, which is very urgent, and we don't do construction outside House Law 5543, almost never, and each ministry does its own. In that respect, our Ministry is a more controlling ministry in both protecting the environment and maintaining the zoning order and order of urbanism. So, here, January 5th Stadium, as we know... of course, I don't know where an AVM is going, but I can take this information and introduce it to you. Mr. Dedeoglu's warning is that the air pollution of Elbistan is at an extreme stage where he has already warned us about this and has not taken a step. I can look into that again, but I can't answer that right now, but if there really is such a thing in Afshin-Elbia, it's very important. But about the environment, of course, the world has gone too far now. So all over the world, all over the world, the 195-198 state, the one with neither material power nor the other, because communication has increased, transportation has become very sensitive to the environment. And in Turkey, we -- I want to express it very sincerely -- we may not be able to spend as much as Europe in terms of the environment, but we're much more sensitive than Europe. In our case, gardening, flowering, foresting is growing faster than Europe, which is in a very clear way.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0071par0305	No action, Minister. Of course, it is Europe that brings forth the real environmental problem. Now, friends, at the beginning of the 20th century, the environmental problem appeared in Europe, and they said: "The environment is getting dirty; the Danube is getting dirty; the Rhine is getting dirty." And they gathered together, they said: "Let us discipline the world about the environment. Turkey will have the same discipline, Romania will have the same discipline, China will have the same. We began to comply with the agreements in Copenhagen under the agreements made by the United Nations in 1972. We're going to both Kyoto Protocol and Rio contracts and all the agreements in Stockholm, all of them, we're doing a big turnout, and we're doing all of them. We don't have any responsibility, he'll have to give us more money to be responsible. The development of our country needs to improve. We don't let them bring us in and drown us anywhere, but believe me, we're far more sensitive to the environment than Europe right now, and we're following all the decisions of the United Nations. Look, I want to give you a number or two. In accordance with Kyoto Protocol, we serve 72 per cent of the city's population in 428 municipalities today, and in accordance with its 2023 bid, we have programmed 76 million of the Republic of Turkey's 76 million today -- 76 million today, or 100 per cent of what our population is -- to serve 35 per cent of the city's population. Again, today, very seriously, we've been monitoring all the companies, businesses online, which have been dumping up to 10,000 cubic metres of waste water in our country. As the ministry, we have helped environmental infrastructure projects from 2002 to today, close to 1 quadrillion, which is about 1 billion, for free, grants. Again, we pay 50% of the electricity costs of municipalities and wastewater treatment facilities as grants. You know, 20 years, 25 years ago, in most of our major municipalities in Turkey, there were garbage mountains, garbage that couldn't be removed, garbage that couldn't be disposed of, and it couldn't be disposed of; today, we are serving with 69 regular storage facilities, 900 municipalities, 44.5-45 million people. Again, our projects, such as solid waste production, energy production, greenhouse production, continue rapidly, until 2023. In this direction, the most advanced countries, Japan, Northwest European countries, are in a mutual working and negotiating situation, and very serious steps at the point of producing energy from solid waste from the foodac dump today, where both energy is produced and there are greenhouses built across it. No one was passing here before, the city wasn't growing that way, it was just growing west towards Eskişehir Road, but now there are serious investments in the old dump around Mamak. Again, the recycling facilities are being heavily funded today. Again, ship's waste... since there was no such thing as collecting and monitoring ship's waste in 2002, we are now collecting ship's waste at 232 ports... and very seriously...
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0072par0314	...we're punishing them. I'm out of time, so thank you again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-25sit03spe0073par0317	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Unanswerable questions will remain on the agenda. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (June 26, 2013) at 15 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good evening.
