tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes, and the government can answer them, and it's been 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Eskişehir International Dolphin Emre Culture and Art Week celebrations, Eskişehir MP Salih Kocafa, who wants to talk about events. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are the land of the civilizations that have always maintained their civilized quality, which has kept different cultures, different beliefs, races, spoken languages together without distancing them from the truth. This geography, which has hosted many civilizations, has become one of the cultural centers of the world with the transfer of ancient cultures from generation to generation, and has been named Anadolu, as the remzi of our civilization of love and peace, which has been distilled by distilling those cultures into the future. The spiritual representatives of this host have moved the civilization of love and peace, shaped by a universal message for centuries. One of these spiritual representatives is our Jonah, who came out of the Yellow Village of Eskişehir. Jonah is a poet of love and peace, describing the morality of Islam. Jonah, one of the most beautiful values in human history, influenced not only the age he lived, but all the ages. Jonah became one of the most powerful architects of his understanding of rebuilding human values in the speech of love and peace. In Jonah's kitchen, one has discipline with the abandonment of love and is cooked in a monolithic furnace. Jonah's abandonment of love, watered by the Islamic spring, passed through the illusion, brewed in the fire of knowledge, was sweetened by a poetic description. Thus, it became a universal message that addressed each century. Jonah's poems and the peace of heart climate show that this philosophy must be effective in all aspects of life. Thus, it is important that the philosophy of Jonah is taught by our educators to teach our generations in schools and to build our future in a healthy way. Our Jonah, who has addressed all ages, does not hold grudges to anyone/ the public world is one to us. Let us tolerate the principle of equality with his verses; let the Creator speak of humility and tolerance; let us meet him; let us make it easy; let us be loved; let us be loved; let no one inherit the earth. The lines of the earth also tell of unity, brotherhood, and peace. Eskişehir, the Turkish World Cultural Capital of 2013; Jonah Emre, Nasreddin Hoxha, Sheikh Shucaeddin-i Veli, Seyit Battal Gazi, Mahmoud Hüdayi, is a school of knowledge and wisdom that feeds the spiritual climate from the most powerful sources. Ever since the Ottomans, Eskişehir has also been the capital of love and tolerance by embracing our descendants who have emigrated from Crimea, Caucasus, and the Balkans. As citizens of Eskişehir, we are proud that a value like Jonah, the spokesman for peace and love, has come from within us. It is the duty of all those who dwell in this land to understand Jonah, to live in his philosophy, and to make this philosophy come true. To this end, we have been conducting activities under the leadership of our Eskişehir Governorate in recent years. Each year, we celebrate the first week of May as the International Eskişehir Yunus Emre Cultural and Art Week to promote Jonah and his philosophy to the world. This year's events took place from May 3rd to May 11th made more sense when the descendants of Yunus, Mezlanah, and Haci Bayram Veli were gathered together. Because this year, the capitals, where the three spiritual leaders of Asia Minor were madfun, were united more strongly. On this occasion, we thank the Prime Minister and our ministers, who led these three capitals to join each other on a high-speed train. We invite you, our valued deputies and our people, to our city of Eskişehir, the Turkish Capital of Culture, 2013, the land of Jonah's tolerance and love. I'd like to finish my words with these verses from Jonah, the poet of love: .... the promise of a sac war, I promise you, I promise I'll give you a fat shot, A promise of oil and honey. With these feelings, I put an end to my words, and salute your high council with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Husband. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked to be mentioned as the 41st anniversary of the executions of Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is May 7th, yesterday was May 6th. Forty-one years earlier, on May 6, 1972, Deniz Gezmiş, Yusef Aslan and Hussein, who were the leaders of the 1968 revolutionary generation, were executed at dawn, at dusk, without law, on the gallows. Deniz Gezsi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan, what did they do to deserve the death penalty? During the talks held at that time in the Parliament, some lawmakers saw the incident as a struggle to save a country and voted for the execution of Deniz Gezmisin, Yusuf Aslan (Joseph Aslan) and Hüseyin Believer. My dear friends, though, it is wise to listen directly to the intentions of Sea Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin Believer: I believe that what we do is right, and I still have that faith. We wanted nothing more than Turkey's independence, so we fought against American imperialism and collaborators. Therefore, we are not afraid of death. Let none think of it but the co-conspirators, and let them despair of it. And when I'm 24, I'm honored to present myself to Turkey's independence. We fought for the independence and happiness of our people, with no personal interest. I am a Turkish revolutionary against American imperialism, Soviet revisionism, Romanian clowning, Bulgarian flattery. Indeed, I did not use my weapon against the people and the army in his defense of the Sea Traveler, but I carried it with intent to use it against the traitors. I use weapons against the people and the army. I did not make a statement. Dear lawmakers, we wanted nothing more than the independence of Turkey in that Sea Gezmis defence, and we put our lives on this path, and we gave our existence in Turkey's name. Those who claim otherwise are traitors. Indeed, Sea Gezmiş and his friends believed that imperialism and collaborators would be torn out of this country, that Turkey would become independent, that there would be a full democratic Turkey, that one day there would be an exploited society in this country, that socialism would be created, that people would live equal and free, and that they would fight that belief. Like many revolutionaries we have read stories of life in history, this was the power of faith and struggle that allowed the seas, the Josephs, and the Believers to risk death. We can also see the beliefs of the Sea Travelers in these words, the great poet Nazim Hikmet says: A dead man hanging from a rope. I don't like it. His hand looks like a hairy black spider. And the rope into my throat, To see fear in my blue eyes To Nazim! I'm, uh, I'll see my friends and you, The pain of a half-finished song I'll take you to the ground... Thus, the revolutionaries of these 68 generations, as Nazim said in this poem, fearlessly went up to the gallows, and the fascist dictators of that day looked in vain to see fear in the eyes of Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan, and Hüseyin İnan. The words of Joseph Aslan on his way to the execution table are a concrete indication of how much they believe in this case: I die once with honor for the independence of my country and for the happiness of my people. You, who hanged us, will die every day with your filth. We are in the service of our people, and you are in the service of America. Long live the revolutionaries! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yeah, it's been forty-one years. Hangers of the seas, hangers of the Josephs, they die every day in fear, dishonor, dishonor, but the Seas live in the heart of all 76 million Turkish citizens. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0005par0060	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Sırım Sakık (Secık) MP, who wants to talk about the massacre of Dersim and the anniversary of the death of Deniz Gezmiş and his friends. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0006par0065	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yes, today, unfortunately, there are painful days in our history. On May 4th, it was the 76th anniversary of Dersim. It was the anniversary of the massacre, of the genocide. Yesterday was the anniversary of the death of Deniz, Joseph, and Hussein. The seas, the Hussains, as the Josephs went to the gallows, the brotherhood of the peoples, Kurds and Turks. He wasn't just a Turkish revolutionary, he was a common revolutionary of all the peoples living in Turkey, and he was three brave men fighting for the peoples. Words, words, should not be spoken, that will hurt their souls when they speak here. They were brave men who sacrificed their bodies for the freedom of these peoples. The year 1969, the bridge was being built in Istanbul, but in retaliation for the Istanbul bridge, they were the naval Gezmis, the Mahirs, the Omars, the brave revolutionaries who built the brotherhood bridge of the peoples there, and that's how we know the Seas. Here are the seas, about the solution to the disputed Kurdish problem, which is actually the brotherhood of Kurdish and Turkish people on the gallows. Yes, there are painful days in our history. Seventy-six years ago, a genocide, a massacre, and the inhabitants of Dersim, the Kurds who lived there, faced a genocide. From seven to seventy, they were slaughtered with their children, with bayonets, with poisonous gases. Whatever the names of those who committed that massacre that day, regardless of their political identity, whatever genocide Hitler committed against the Jews in Germany and whatever the Jews felt about Hitler, we Kurds, the Classmen, feel the same way about those who committed the massacre; but we should all heal our wounds together in history rather than stick to history. The spirit of the sea shall be so blessed, and the spirit of Hussein shall be so blessed, and the spirit of Syed Reza will be so blessed. Look, there was a massacre in Dersim. It was seventy-six years ago. Two days ago, we face the bones of the people who were still slaughtered in the valleys of Dersim. For him, history burdens us all with important responsibilities with its opposition to power. We will come, and heal the wounds of my son, and restore the name of my son's name. We're not gonna get out of here with a dry apology. So if we can't sew up the wounds like a rookie surgeon, we can't solve the problem. The graves of Sheikh Sait and Seyit Reza are still unknown in my class. If we're going to solve the problem, we have to find their graves first. For the return of the name of the subject, the ruling and opposition parties must immediately return it, and in order to face the schoolment, we must offer support for today's peace project as a whole in order to face the spirit of Deniz. If we can provide this, the spirit of the sea, the spirit of Seyit Reza, and the spirit of the Sheikh Sait Master will be thus blessed, and the spirit of the true revolutionaries can find such peace. But on the one hand, having a revolutionary spirit and resisting the peace process today is the most unfair thing to do to these souls. And I am grateful for the revolutionaries of that day. We had a great admiration for them, and it's still going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on I want to thank you all for these feelings.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0007par0074	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I'll promise our friends who've been in the system for a minute, in order. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0008par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. The events of the 1st of May in Istanbul have become an outrage witnessed by the entire world. The only person responsible for this is the AKP (AKP) who tried to crush his worker at every opportunity and situation. ▪ Hundreds have been injured, heart attacks, and one has lost sight as far as the public is concerned, and another has had brain surgery. This is the balance sheet of intervention in Istanbul. Police officers, whose job is to provide security, are children, young and old, but their hospitals, CHP bus, have been sprayed with gas. ==Early life==A large number of young people, pepper gas, pressured water and coffee were exposed to the violent intervention of police during the march to Dolmabahçe, which, because they called it full independence, had been executed in a low manner and the 6th Fleet of their friends had been thrown into the sea. This power is that it can't even tolerate young people who are in the way of the sea. There are millions of workers, workers, workers, and supporters of what the governor described as "marginal groups" as being called the Prime Minister's. Long live Turkey. My cab is May 1st, and it'll stay that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0009par0082	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0010par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, sir, unfortunately, the worst thing that could happen to our country has happened and the former Minister of National Education has upset the education system. Fortunately, the country, teachers, students, and the educational community have been freed from the former Mr. Minister of National Education, but the problems of open school students are not over. We asked our new Minister of Education the question recently, but we didn't get the answer. I ask you again in front of the General Assembly: Why is the right to integration for all students not recognized by the students of the open faculty? Why don't they give the students at the open school their right to immunity and formation? Why is it that Turkey does not give its student students the right to the equality of opportunity according to this Constitution? Fortunately, there's a new Minister of National Education -- we got rid of it before -- we're expecting answers from the new Minister of National Education. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0011par0089	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0012par0092	Mr. President, the precious MPs, the missile shield set up to protect Israel in the Malatya Globecik, was set up by the United States, wrapped in NATO sheets because they were afraid of a reaction. I've told that fact many times. I said it was a US base, it was founded by the United States, and its primary purpose was to protect Israel, and unfortunately, they denied me. The liar's candle burned to death. Today, National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz confessed. I thank him for finding out at least that lie. This is a US base, founded by the United States, abducted from the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, committed constitutional crime. I want the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to know that we will follow this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0011par0094	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0013par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to warn the government of your intervention. Early corn has been planted, and it will be harvested by the end of August and September 15. Still, corn imports are free and exported to companies producing glucose and starch, but they import corn on the outside, as long as they consume at least 5 times as much of what they send to exports. Which means the internal market will be satisfied. So, once the farmer is in the harvest, when he's in the corn harvest, the inside market will be full. Therefore, the farmer's goods will be in his possession. Please make an attempt as a government to stop importing corn as soon as possible. You've finished the wheat, you've finished the cotton, let the corn producers stand. For God's sake, if you have any respect for the farmer, the man who produces it, if you think about them a little bit, please find a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0014par0101	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0015par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. At the Akçakale Customs Gate, the Free Syrian Army has martyred our police. The Turkish flag was burned by militants of the Free Syrian Army in Hatay Reyhanlı. There are dozens of incidents involving refugees in the region almost every day. Events show that the refugee problem in Turkey has become more sociological than politics. Both refugee and Syrian policy of the AKP government is wrong. It has been revealed that the AKP's power has gradually turned the enmity of Bezar Assad into Syrian hostility, Israel's friendship. AKP's hostility towards Syria only strengthens Israel's hand. The AKP must quickly give up policies that will create lasting hostility between Muslim and neighbouring countries. You can't follow the neighbour's enemy, the enemy's neighbor's policy. Israel seeks new gains in Syria. I once again urge the AKP government, which has no course and no principles in foreign policy, to be vigilant, to reconsider Syrian policy, and I thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0014par0106	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0016par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, one of the most important opportunities in education is at the university level, open schools. Open education schools are an important opportunity for our hundreds of thousands of young people to graduate from university, whether it be the first university or third university, and because of our students who have taken advantage of this opportunity, they are also considered open-school students from time to time, but we see that some of the conveniences at other universities are not recognised by students at this university, in the open school. For example, they are not considered a first-class degree in their diplomas, such as those who have graduated from other universities. On the other hand, last time we told the Minister of National Education, we didn't get a response. While these children should have their textbooks on the record or three months before the exams, unfortunately, they are able to get their books a week before the exams, which are serious...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0017par0113	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0018par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. The 41st year of the execution of Sea Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. They risked death for independence, for the independence of our country and for the happiness of our people. The dead died fighting, buried in the sun. We don't have time to mourn them! There's a stream, it's coming to the sun! We'll seize the sun, burn the sun's grip! We honor it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0019par0124	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0020par0127	Thank you very much. Mr. President, first of all, we've just learned that Mr. Ibrahim Yazzýpor, president of the Bursaspor Club, is walking into the mercy of Hakkk. As our group, as our coven, I wish the deceased all the blessings; my condolences to the society of Bursaspor. Secondly, as the National Movement Party, we also remember these days when Jonah Emre had been remembered, and we pray for the blessings of Jonah Emre. Yunus Emre is a man, a man of the heart, a man of great value, who speaks of the importance of being human, of the sense of brotherhood, of the peace, of the brotherhood, of the love of the people in chaos in today's world. A truly precious son of Turk, who raised human love to the level of love for God, who gave today's values to humanity seven hundred, eight hundred years ago. An important value that provides Turkish unity in Anatolia that makes Turkish a nation's language. We celebrate this day as the nationalist Movement Party, thank you, and thank you to Yunus Emre. And to those who follow his path, we pray for mercy, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0021par0131	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0022par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. The leaders of the Turkish revolutionary youth movement, which was massacred on May 6, 1972, are Deniz Gezmis, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. We'd like to rephrase our longing memory in the 41st year when the three saplings were slaughtered. We express our determination to carry on the struggle and the legacy of resistance we receive from them. We are here again to pledge to all our peoples that the mentality leading to the execution of the sea must be faced. We would like to remind you that it is also in this House to remove the disgrace of the history of these executions, which is a disgrace to our history. On the other hand, May 4, 1937 is the date of the genocide of my class in the Council of Ministers. I'd like to stress that we're condemning the mindset that considers the lesson as a boil, an event that needs to be cast as a scalpel. In particular, we think that the human bones that appeared in the Lach Creek caves within a few days revealed how urgent and essential it is to face the massacre of the Holocaustal human bones. We believe it is one of the key agendas and duties in front of this Assembly to apologize to the people of Dersim in the first place, to open archives on the fate of the missing girls, and to give the graves of Seyit Reza and his friends to the people of my class. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0023par0139	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0024par0142	Mr. President, May is a month of mourning for patriots. Forty - one years ago, we mourn the forty - one year of the year of which Joseph Aslan and Hussein were wrongly slain, and we remember them with respect, and with love, and with longing. What Deniz Baba said at the execution table is a song for us. Long live the brotherhood of the people. Long live Turkey. I also honor the martyrs of the revolution who died for their people, Sinan Djemgil, Transport Glassman, Mahir Teaan, Alpaslan Özdoğan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0023par0145	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of Parliament, Minister of Development Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz has asked 546, 673, 778, 832, 896, 929, 959, 1006, 1007, 1046, 1109, 1253, 1448, 1458, 1628, 1680, 1716, 1716, 1771, 1972, 768, 369, 369, 546, 673, 778, 830, 837, 832, 896, 929, 959, 136, 146, 1448, 1628, 1680, 1716, 1972, 1974, 1974, 1974, 1974, 1974, 1982, 273, 2013, 2337, 2337, 2337, 2337, 2337, 2337, and 2337. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read it and present it to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly (AKP) President Jean-Claude Mignon visited our country along with a delegation, which was adopted on April 30, 2013 by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Council of Parliament's Decision No. 48. The visit of the delegation to our country will be presented to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Environment and Energy Commissions Meeting, which will be held by the Council of the Council of Europe on 12 May 2013 in Dublin, Ireland, was adopted in the 98th Union of the General Assembly of April 30, 2013. The name of the Justice and Development Party Group, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to attend the meeting under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the necessary measures for the problems of the energy sector in our country, we respectfully request and demand that parliamentary research be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution. [[Scholarship]] [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] 8) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Elizipt]] [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 14) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] Like all over the world, energy remains one of the most basic needs in our country. It is important that this need is met with efficiency, continuity, and ecologicality. A growing need for energy is not enough with current projects and investments. We need the right energy policy to maintain development in our country. According to TEİAS's electrical energy projection study, the energy deficit in our country begins as of 2015, and even in the event of current projects, it is not needed to increase. The energy gap is increasing rapidly. Natural gas prices are constantly rising depending on oil, and in recent years, challenges are growing, given the dependency of industrial and energy production on natural gas. Industrial companies are in danger of stopping production, especially because of the height of energy input costs, including Bursa. The coal companies in the energy corridor, natural gas supplier BOTAS, TPAO, electricity producer EUAS, TETAS, are unable to produce efficient production for different reasons. It is known that TETAS, which buys and sells electricity with guarantees, purchases above the average cost of GDP and YI. It appears that many companies with licenses and projects to build HES and wind plants are in a bagger position, which markets projects. True entrepreneurs get unfair benefits by blocking their way. These applications also slow energy investments down by blocking them. Despite the fact that the Law on Renewable Energy Resources has been adopted in 2005, despite its failures in applications at TBMM, the Law on the Use of Renewable Energy Resources for Electric Energy Production, number 6094 in 2010. There are many renewable sources that exist in our country that are still unusable because fossil fuels are getting smaller and less ecological. Since current transmissions are not being efficient and new energy sources are not being implemented at sufficient speed, and energy should be the most important strategy for our country, we believe it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation by the Supreme Assembly, where we will address the problems and measures that we state above. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the economic development of the Southeast Anatolia Project, social development and the reflection of basic infrastructure investments in the region, particularly irrigation, and the opening of research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution. 28.02.2012 [[Adıyaman]] [[Manisa]] 3) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Sinop]] 8) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Ardahan]] [[Erzincan]] 14) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 22) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 23) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Sakarya]] [[Artvin]] 28) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] GAP is implemented in the Southeastern Anatolian Region (Adiyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa and Şırnak). The land and population size of cities within the GAP is around 10 per cent of Turkey's average. The GAP was originally discussed as a programme based on the development of the region's water and land resources, and 22 dams for watering and hydroelectric energy production in the Fırat and Dicle Basin have been envisioned, 19 hydropower plants and watering investments. In 1989, the Master Plan and the 1989 revision included investments in agriculture, industry, transport, education, health, rural and urban infrastructure, which became a multi sectoral, sustainable human development-based regional development project. According to the GAP Action Plan (2008-2012), all investments and developments in the region under the GAP were revised in 2008, and the decision of the Southeast Anatolia Project to accelerate its investments in basic infrastructure, including economic development, social development and irrigation was decided to complete by the end of 2012. As part of the GAP Action Plan, there are four strategic development axis: I. The Realisation of Economic Development II. Making Social Development III. Development of Infrastructure IV. Development of Corporate Capacity There are 73 main actions under these axes. The number of projects and activities within the framework of the main actions is more than 300. As of 1990-2007, the GAP received an average of 7.0 per cent per year from public investment sources. In early 2008, GAP investments were earmarked for $1.06 billion. With the implementation of the GAP Action Plan, the annual investment rate has been doubled, with an additional $1 billion transferred to institutions, and the share of GAP investments in total public investments for the first time has increased by 12 per cent. In 2009, the rate rose to 14.4 per cent with 3.1 billion dollars. Given the data we've presented upstairs, despite so many investments, the prediction that unemployment and migration in the region will not fall, and that the Southeast Anatolia Project will be completed by the end of 2012. We demand and demand that the economic development, social development, and social development of the Southeast Anatolia Project reflect on the region, and that research be opened in accordance with Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution on the implementation rate of projects. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that parliamentary research be carried out under the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, 104th Amendment, and 105th Articles of the Constitution in our country regarding the measures to be taken by investigating organ transplants and organ donors. [[Slap]] [[Mersin]] [[Sakarya]] 4) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 11) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] 13) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 14) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] 15) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Kütahya]] An organ transplant is a transplant of an organ taken from a living donor or a dead body instead of a body that can't do its job. The organ donation is that when one person is alive, he allows tissue and organs to be used to treat other patients after his free will and medical life has ended. Medicine has shown many changes and improvements by the time it reaches the 20th century. Many extraordinary situations have been witnessed during the implementations. But one thing is well known now, which is what life and death are. We no longer have any hesitation about death. The certainty of death is beyond doubt, especially after some tests have been conducted. The more dead a person is, the more brain-dead a man is. No wonder such a miracle can ever happen, as a dead, buried person has never been brought back to life. Although there are many areas in medicine where miracles happen, unfortunately, death is not one of them. There have been some speculations in the press from time to time, but no case of brain death or death has ever been brought back to life. Maybe the most obvious response to doing good is organ donation. One of the most important principles in our life that govern our actions is hope for a certain benefit. Even when we're doing good, there's a part of us that hopes that this favor will somehow return to us. It's an irresistible request for the person and other people to be aware of the good we've done and feel indebted to us in some way. However, in order for a course of action to be considered purely good, it must be in no way rewarded and unaware. In our country, nearly half of the people who lost a relative and faced a question about organ donation have shown the courage and maturity to donate the organs of their relatives. This is above the organ donation rate of even the first U.S.A. in all matters. This is a value that reveals the wisdom and openness of our people's heart. We now understand that in our country, the real inadequacy is the detection of brain deaths. The other thing about organ donation is that the level of socioeconomics has been much higher in low levels. Although there is no financial gain, it is also interesting that such a result has arisen. "I wonder if it's in a better economic condition and the higher the education opportunities, the further it gets away from humanity?" People think about it whether they want to or not. We believe that if the issue of trust and knowledge can be resolved, our country will be the most advanced in organ donation in the world. Another fact is that our country's health workers do not have full knowledge of it. Unfortunately, this is our country's weakest point in organ donation and transplantation from cadavers. The most important reason is that so far, medical and medical staff training has brought technical elements to the forefront and has not been provided enough social information. Unfortunately, there are few physicians who are sensitive and understand the importance of brain death detection, except for those who have somehow worked at organ transplant centers. Doctors are far from showing enough sensitivity to the life of a patient they don't see and who isn't under their own surveillance. For this reason, the first step in studies and training programmes should be to include health workers before the public. As we've been monitoring from visual media lately, the sudden transfer of the first four limbs in the world and the loss of the recipient's life have also caused polymhesis among the doctors. In such cases, the commissions consisting of experts of the subject must be set up as soon as possible. The investigation of the subject by the TBMM will make our country and our people much better in the matter of organ transplants and organ donation. Our motion is prepared for this purpose. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There is a thesis on the extension of the Commission's mandate of the main Parliamentary Research Commission, which has been established with the aim of establishing measures relating to the Freedom of Communication and the Protection of Private Life (10/74, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2013, I respectfully ask that our Commission's mandate be extended a month from 12/05/05/2013, according to the second joke of Article 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, according to its decision at its meeting of 02/05/2013. The commission, which failed to complete its investigation within three months, has been given a month's notice. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly By the Federation of Turkish American Associations, on 16 May 18 May 2013, it was 32 in New York, United States. Turkish Day events will be held. The issue of accession to these events is presented to the General Assembly under Article 6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor of the counter... those who do not... are in favor of the counter. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday (7/05/2013) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. The General Assembly's Agenda of Turkey's General Assembly and Parliamentary Research has been proposed to jointly discuss proposals for the opening of a parliamentary investigation in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the "suspect military deaths in the TSK" during the 418th part of the Dair Pre-Constructions Division. In favour of the group proposal, the first word is Abdullah Levent Tüzzel, İstanbul MP. Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0025par0398	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In our motion, we demand a parliamentary investigation and a commission on the subject of public debate of suspected military deaths. This has become very important in terms of the process in which we talk about establishing peace in Turkey, as well as in today's talks about shortening the government's military term, which it says has been re-opened. Today, again, some of the families whose children died like this attended the group meeting in Parliament. On March 6th, more than 20 of the military families visited the group and held a press conference to voice their demands. But before we get into this, I would like to share with you once again the government's position, especially in Istanbul, as we live today, on the anniversary of the deaths of the workers of Turkey, the precious children of the Turkish people Deniz Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. For forty-one years, as you know, these young leaders, led by 68 youth in the 70s, who were representatives of the antifascist-antiemperist struggle at universities, in rural areas, in the country's independence and patriotism, were unjustly executed, and those who followed the Seas in every part of Turkey today, who gave their sons the names of the seas, their children, their shouts, with love. Yesterday in Istanbul, young people who wanted to remember the Seas in the same way were asked to be silenced, suppressed, and prevented in the same way, due to the curfew of Istiklal Street on the orders of the Prime Minister and the orders of İstanbul Governor. In the 70s, however, the idea of a state that had hanged the seas to be an example, the struggle of youth, the struggle of working peoples, was in power in the same way after all these years. On May 6th, in the name of the government itself, on the name of democracy, on May 6th, before that, he tried to gas the streets, not only with gas bombs, but with the same intention of killing the Dilans, the Zeyneps, the Abrahams, the Serdals, with gas flares in their heads, to suppress these pleas of youth, to drown the desires of youth. This is the democratic approach of the AKP government and its current state understanding, today, for rights and freedoms, for scientific education; for political reasons in prisons; for the work of those arrested for their views; for the work of those who go to areas for peace and brotherhood in the country; this is the government's attitude. This attitude emerged from the prime minister's two lips, and the governor of Istanbul has effectively eliminated the right to demonstration, freedom of expression, and the right to organise, leading to basic rights and freedoms. So for the past forty-one years, nothing has really changed for the sovereigns. But in this country, the same way, the working classes are being exploited; unemployment, poverty is at an extreme stage. In colleges, science has gone out. The universities have become a business in the service of capital. In universities, mysticism, religion organization, has taken over, and the democratic college, scientific, autonomous college demands of youth are also tried to suppress state terrorism. This is the coming landscape in Turkey in 2013. Honorable MPs, the government and the İstanbul Governorate must somehow explain this ban and state terror on May 1st. Thousands of policemen piled up in Istanbul... we're asking: How much money was spent on the workers' budget? May 1st, the day of international solidarity, struggle, unity of workers, also an official holiday, was prohibited to workers, young people, to those who express their patriotic feelings and not only to be banned, but to cause the deaths and severe injuries of young people. But we know that from our history. The history of the Republic of Turkey, in fact, this 90-odd-odd-year history, is literally a history of massacres. As the history of monotheism, Muslimization, Turkification, and maintaining all these inequalitys, one of them is still being questioned after all these years of the massacre of Ders Tertele, which, on May 4, 37, passed through the massacre of Ders, is still being asked why, why, and the account. Yeah, it shouldn't just be an apology. If the Republic of Turkey is truly going to build democracy, if it will solve social inequality, if discrimination over rights, beliefs, identities will end, then the date must be faced with the history of these brutal massacres. So, as part of this confrontation, today, according to data from the National Ministry of Defence and the Human Rights Commission, the suspicious soldier deaths in the barracks, which have been expected every day, have to be questioned, must be enlightened, and an answer must be given to these families. We, first of all, offer our condolences to these painful families and hope that there will be no other death. Especially this new process of conflict that our country has entered, I think, has created a new ray of hope for families, children, families whose children are in the military, but it's very important that this is permanent. It's important that it's permanent today, and there are measures and measures that need to be taken immediately before the government and the Assembly, to turn a public war into respect for a growing social peace, equality, brotherhood, common democracy culture, languages, beliefs. One of the most recent deaths was in Kars. On April 24th, on the anniversary of this Armenian discharge, the killing of Armenian Private Sevag Fisherman was also covered by his friend. Again, on February 21st, Mazlum Aksu, the district manager of the Darıcada Emek Party on February 21st of this year, was also listed as the same as the suspected military death of Mazlum Aksu, the son of a Mardin family. These are the last examples, but in order for it to really be the last, you have to listen to the parents and respond to their demands. What do the parents want? Families first want these investigations to be conducted in civil courts, not in military courts, which will destroy the environment of trust. And indeed, as a subcommittee of the Human Rights Commission, it is imperative that an investigation and deployment of all suspicious deaths in this matter should not only be shortened to military time, but the budget of millions of workers should no longer be divided into this defence industry and military environment, but to be removed from our laws of obligatory military service, from the Constitution, as in all modern, civilized countries, to be granted a right to conscientious rejection, to die, to die, to kill. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish Armed Forces military disciplinary law, which has left the Parliament in the past time, is clear that the provisions made by the European Court of Human Rights are not in order to prevent military deaths in the barracks. The structure of the Turkish Armed Forces itself is antidemocratic, and not just the environment of war, but the injustices caused by social inequality, identity inequality, faith inequality, and psychological problems, but the structure of the army also leads to these suicides and suspicious deaths. These should be seriously investigated and placed on the table by our House. In this regard, I submit our group's motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation to your approval and acceptance. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0026par0413	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. The second speaker is Mr. Smurf Ünal, the Istanbul MP against him. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0027par0417	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I salute the High Council. The military service is the right and duty of every Turk under Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. According to our Constitution, how to perform military service is regulated by relevant laws. In this regard, military service is carried out under the Code of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers 1111. When we look at various forms of military service, we see three main structures. One of them is those who have been drafted for short-term service: the service period of those in the short term status of a reserve officer has been set as the service period of those who have been assigned as a reserve officer, half of the 12 months, according to Article 5 of the Military Law 1111. About a month of this six months is spent in beginner's training and is also used as a 12-day leave. Our second-in-command is the case of our brothers and sisters in the reserve officer category. These four or more years of faculty, academia, institutes and institutes of higher education have been determined on the basis of Article 3 of the Code of Reserve Officers and Delegated Officers, as needed by the Turkish Armed Forces Health Talent Management, as well as by the Turkish Armed Forces. The term of the service of the reserve officers has been set for 12 months, according to the third Article of the Code of Reserve Officers and Reserve Officers, and also by the decision of the Council of Ministers, dated 23 June 2003 and 5795. All our reserve officers are also entitled to thirty days off. According to this, the 12 months of mixed-class reserve officers spend three months training as substitute officers for the National Ministry of Education as teachers because there is more to be needed with the health class. The latest issue of the group's proposal is the issue of our soldiers, who have completed their service period for 15 months, or as a private. The Joint Commands, which will be organised by the Office of the Military Agency, are random access systems through encrypted recordings in the computer system; classes, majors and educational centres, and subpoena groups are separated by force commanders, which are randomly determined in the computer environment by the General Command and Coast Guard Command. Those in charge of private and private status are under arms, including 4 subpoenas and 8 groups per year. The service period for those assigned to Private and Private status is fifteen months. Again, these brothers have one to three months of rookie training, and 30 days of legal leave. The military service period of four years and more university graduates, as I have just stated, was arranged with the Act of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers. The tenure of the reserve officers is twelve months, as I have just stated, and the short term is six months. Less than four years of college graduates are subject to the 1111 Military Law, and their military service period is fifteen months. Dear MPs, I'd like to ask you, with your permission, to read a 13-step procedure in the Turkish Armed Forces concerning the deaths of these suspected soldiers, which our BDP deputy just presented: In any death in the Turkish Armed Forces, there is no doubt that the jurisdictional military prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation, making sure there is no doubt in the mind. With the incident taking place, the military prosecutor is moving rapidly to the scene with the crime scene investigation team. In case the military prosecutor fails to make it to the scene for any reason, the investigation and investigation are being carried out by the republic's attorney in that area. The incident team collects all evidence according to the prosecutor's instructions. Prosecutors are conducting their initial examination at the scene, all the evidence is carefully collected. All witnesses and all personnel who have been considered involved in the investigation have been taken into account. When necessary, the evidence is sent to the criminal labs and to the Forensic Medical Association for criminal investigations. The prosecutor considers all possibilities and performs an autopsy on death, so there's no question left in mind. The autopsy is performed by two physicians, one of whom is a medical examiner and one of whom is a pathologist. The autopsy report, criminal examinations, and witness statements are being examined to the very last detail, and according to the conclusion, if the person responsible for the death incident is found, it is decided whether or not to prosecute the person responsible for it. The prosecutor conducts the entire investigation in secrecy under Article 157 of the Penal Code. The prosecutor makes an examination of the information and documents available, uncovers the nature of the event, takes statements of those he considers necessary, and then decides to prosecute. If the indictment is deemed necessary, it is reported to the family that there is no room for prosecution, but in some cases, if information is provided after this decision, the investigation will be reopened and continued. The investigation file will be sent to the nearest military court to examine the objection if it is contested by the ruling that there is no room for prosecution. The court-martial finds the objection to be justified and decides it is necessary to open a civil suit, and a civil suit is filed by the military prosecutor; if the objection is found to be inadmissible, the appeal will be denied, but if new incidents and new evidence arises, a civil suit can be filed. The Turkish Armed Forces are working to reduce increased suicides around the world, especially with precision, as well as with various measures to predict and prevent human life accidents and disciplinary failures, including control of weapons and ammunition, watch bases and so forth, and training activities. The abuse of deceased personnel, the environment in which they are involved in such an act, and the implications of their ethnic identity are far from research and scientific. Any recent suicides are being investigated from a legal and administrative standpoint to begin ahead, and legal procedures are being made about those who have been identified with any flaws and negligence. In all cases, which have resulted in death, not only in suicides, as mentioned above, the prosecution is sure to conduct a criminal investigation, a full examination of all aspects of the incident, and legal action against those responsible if there is one. So far, there's been no forensic and administrative investigations in our records, and there's been no suspicious death. In addition, contact information is provided for the office where the forensic investigation is being conducted, such as the report on autopsy, if the family requires documents other than given information. Congressmans, I've tried to give you in detail our application to the Turkish Armed Forces. The BDP says we can't attend the group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0028par0435	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0029par0436	Mr. President, I'd like to point out one thing in terms of getting him on the record: now, of course, we don't want to issue this motion to open a debate on the competency of the Turkish Armed Forces' legislation. Mr. Hatip has read the Turkish Armed Forces' legislation on this issue. We don't have any demands on that. What we're saying is that military courts have not shown sufficient sensitivity to the death of suspected soldiers within the barracks. There is an understanding that constantly approaches all these suspicious soldier deaths by masking them. We believe that these military court practices within a chain of command will not solve this problem, we say it should be seen in civil courts, and we propose that the Assembly set up a research commission on this issue because there is a suspicious situation, the lives of nearly a thousand of our soldiers in the last decade. Mr. Orator has read us the legislation as if we don't know the law. We'd like it on the record to be accurate.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0028par0437	Thank you. Your words are on the books. Now, third speaker on the proposal, in favor of Muharrem Ilk, Erzincan MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0030par0442	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the group's proposal. I salute you all. Of course, before I begin my remarks, I'll start by describing the condition of a friend from Erzincan who committed suicide: my 29-year-old citizen, Lieutenant Yaşar Karamağ, who served in Diyarbakır Hani district, went to Diyarbakır on February 8, 2013 -- leaving his trail. He stayed one day at the concentration camp in Diyarbakir, where he stopped to stay. Later, when his family hadn't heard from him, they called his unit in Hani County and said he wasn't in town. The search revealed that he committed suicide by being told that the door had been broken or had been opened beautifully. Now, here, first, it's said that he shot himself in a room on the other side of the reception immediately, shooting himself in one shot and waiting there for ten hours. No one's listening. In a place like Diyarbakir -- which at that time was a violent period of terrorism -- when soldiers don't go out, usually they're all there, they're all waiting, they're being held at the concentration camp -- no one hears that sound, no one hears that gun, and they know it ten hours later. Now, Yasar Karam tree was the child of a poor family, and his father made him read it with great difficulty. His father says: "I have kept watch over the mountain, and I have done all that I have done to raise my children, and I have given them love, and I have given them love, and I have given them righteousness, that they may benefit their people, and their land. I took money from my neighbors and sent them to school. Right now, I want to go back to bed with them. Her mother is screaming, saying: "They ate my children, I can't stand it, they cut off my sprouts. Now, what his parents claim is that there are two sergeants in charge. Now, of course, you're going to say, "How could a sergeant major do something to a lieutenant?" It's been said that the attending sergeants are always bothering our friend, and the kid's been telling us, and the mercy is telling us all the time, but it's not getting any results because... even though they're supposed to be quitting, because they don't have money, because they don't have money, because they don't expect to finish at least ten years, the kid can't quit, and right now, unfortunately, no results have been made. Just now, our orator, sir, says there's nothing here from any of the investigations so far, at least that's what we're saying, nothing comes out, unfortunately, they're all covered up. Before, here, I'll be myself, we'll have other congressman friends, they've given us questions. I've asked a lot of questions in the question motion, where the suicides are from, what population they're registered to, psychological problems they've had, and I've asked them to work in that direction. The answer I've been given is that there's no classification of the ethnic identity or belief of the deceased staff. I'm not asking him, I'm asking him, where are they from, what country are they from? During the first interview or later proceedings, all privates, with a history of substance use before coming to the army, are being taken into the guidance centre process, transferred to military hospital, receiving treatment. They respond this way, of course, and we know that that's not true. In response to the question motion given by another friend, Levent Tützel Bey, research has said that a large number of suicides were caused by spiritual depression, except for family problems, health problems, financial incompetence, and the inability to marry whomever he wants. In addition, they added another clause here: registration-acceptable, examination-evaluation polls are being conducted when they join the training units of all personnel who have been referred to military branches as available for military service. I have done nothing like this in four years as a civilian physician, as an expert staff and as a civilian physician, and as a person responsible for the results of the survey and one-to-one meetings. There was no circumcision at the time, which was removed, but before that, there was only one circumcision. If he had a report on other issues, he was sent there without being taken seriously, directly past. Hardly, but if he had a report, if he had a disease, they would be sent to certain centers and received reports, but for none of them, as we say, because of his psychological problems, let's investigate them, because he's a drug addict. We all know that there was no study done. As I said earlier, the speaker said: "There is no conclusion so far. " That's our problem, why isn't it getting results? The Joint Chiefs are reviewing, the Human Rights Review Commission is reviewing, but there's no results at all. There's a website about these soldiers, about being abused by the military. The result of all the complaints that have come in here is: 48 percent of us are insulted because of the punishment. (Other than 39 per cent of us are getting beaten to death because of extreme physical activity, 16 per cent say that we are going to suicides. 15 per cent are complaining about not getting sufficient health care; 13 per cent are talking about threats, 9 per cent of them are talking about indiscriminate punishments, 5 per cent of personal record, lack of prosecution, sleeplessness, and turnover. Of course, they're classified here, but unfortunately, right now, the military or the government has nothing on it, or at work at the Ministry of National Defense. They say: "You came, you were mentally ill, or you were addicted to drugs, or you were depressed because they didn't give you the girl you wanted, and you committed suicide here. " There are no other consequences. So, Yaşar Karameli-Erzincana, my friend of the Elves, they're on leave, they're at Erzincan, they're going to İzmir, they're renting the wedding hall in August, and then they're getting married, but no matter what happens, after returning to their post, a child who's so chirpy commits suicide there. So there are some things that you don't have to look for spiritual problems, you have to question the pressures there. Now, of course, the investigations here are said to be strictly confidential. It's a mystery, anyway. Why is it secret? So whatever it is, let's get it out in the open. Now, it's said that an autopsy was performed by a coroner or a pathologist. The number of forensic experts in Turkey is clear. As a GP, I don't blame you at least - I've done 250 or 300 autopsies. So there's no need to look for expertise. Any prosecutor can call any doctor, any doctor, and have them do an autopsy. There is no harm in it, and there is no harm in it, and that is in the law. Of course, we don't know how incredible it is, but there were especially articles published by the Yana newspaper. There are some things in these articles that the retired officers specifically say. One of them says that General Staff did a study on petty officers. At the end of this study, it was the result of a severe reduction in the feelings of belonging to the TSK. The second incident was about membership in the TSK Solidarity Foundation each year in January. 90% of the staff are not members of this foundation this year... these are serious data. Petty Officers have lost their rights because of their restitution and mobbing. We have already seen in the press how many petty officers commit suicide. Also, the officers have an explanation for this. Officers, in particular, I don't know if he's an enemy of the government or an enemy of the military anymore, but in his statement, they've made a statement that most of these suicides in the military are not suicides. That's probably been read somewhere. Now, lastly, I'm going to say, of course, that you've already explained the rejection in this motion, as in every motion given, because you have important issues, important laws will come, this is not an important issue! A few soldiers lost their lives there, so there's no point in caring! Especially if the Joint Chiefs are looking into it, and the Human Rights Commission has looked into it, it's over. Here, here, your value is revealed. Of course, there's this: I don't expect the mindset, which considers the student, the worker, the officer, to investigate military suicides, to consider it. I also don't expect those who don't receive a report of decomposition to their own relatives, who receive special treatment, even if they are in the military. I don't think there's a time when people who want to be spiteful teenagers will have time for soldiers to commit suicide or to look like suicide, which, in my opinion, is to have a few heads. We will bring peace to the people who are polarizing society, who are constantly making rhetorics. I do not believe that those who say, "We will take serious steps in this matter." So, I know that the nation is an abortion. And I'll tell you this -- and I'll tell you this -- your mentality, and whatever happened, and those who have recently forgotten this massacre have a psychological disorder in the army. I know they're going to label it, and they're not going to support it, but let me tell you this: at least this time, you didn't take out our friend Recep or our friend or Ramadan friend, and you didn't say, "It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, at least take ten minutes. But like I said, the important thing is to look into it, find it seriously. We don't know how serious you're going to take it, but, of course, it was a motion of the BDP, and we have motions, and we have too many, and we're going to bring them back when the day comes, and we're going to bring them back to the public all the time. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0031par0461	Thank you, Mr. Light. The last speaker on the motion is Mr. Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen, MP of Kastamon. Here you go, Mr. Gülşen.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0032par0465	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the BDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, our Istanbul MP Mr. Smurf Ünal has made a detailed statement regarding the BDP group proposal, but in the meantime, I'd like to bring up a few issues. In a nutshell, any death in the Turkish Armed Forces caused by suicide, accidents, accidental bullets is investigated in every way by military prosecutors. As a result of these investigations, there is also great care for the truth to be revealed beyond any doubt. Contrary to the allegations, it is carefully observed that the truth will be revealed beyond any doubt. Most of the soldiers who lost their lives have claimed to have come from a certain ethnicity, which is an unresolved statement, and I want to make it very clear that we disagree. In addition, the work of the General Staff is under way, especially regarding suicide issues. The number of guidance centres and psychological advisers within the Turkish Armed Forces has been increased, resulting in a reduction in half in the last decade. Of course, it's important, of course, where human life is at stake, everything is extremely important. The Chief of Staff is already concerned with the importance of this issue, and it is their duty as a matter of fact. The military prosecutors have been vetting everything on this subject. Therefore, I respectfully salute the General Assembly that we disagree with the BDP group proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0033par0473	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Orator said there were some allegations that the motion had no basis for. I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0034par0474	Isn't that normal, and you're gonna answer every review again? I'll speak against you. He says he'll say something against you, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0033par0475	No, but right now, we don't want to stall the General Assembly by bringing an unsolicited claim to the General Assembly's agenda. I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0034par0476	All right, here you go, two minutes. But it's not the procedure, so I'll tell you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0033par0478	No, the General Assembly needs an explanation, Mr. President, because it reflects what we're saying in a different way.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0034par0479	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0033par0482	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. It's really very sensitive, and it's what families expect, but despite that, I'm afraid I've seen a great deal of insensitivity at the ruling party. In the last ten years, nearly 1,000 soldiers have died like this. Look, I'm just going to tell you a story from my own constituency. In July 2012, the funeral of Sezer Altındağ (Sezer Altındağ) was brought to the Sandzak district of Bingol, because Ergani had stepped on a mine. The team that brought the funeral came back, gave it to the family. Although the family repeatedly resisted, with the insistence of seeing their child one last time, your father took care of the funeral and stepped on the May. A single bullet was found on his forehead. Let's say it's from Kurd ethnitis. Come, let's investigate, so you'll find that 90 percent of these murders inside the barracks are Kurds and Alevis. It doesn't matter if it doesn't, it's the House's job to find out.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0035par0486	Do you have a basis? Is there any basis for that? You've written it down...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0033par0487	Look, Oktay Can, who came to the House today from Antalya, came with pictures of his son, but, morally speaking, since we couldn't bring those pictures here, let me put it under oath that we didn't find it right to bring them here: the gun called suicide was safe, so it's said that he committed suicide with a gun that never opened his safety. He's got two entrance holes in his head, he's being handed over to the family, he's had a plastic surgery on an entry hole, and a hole's been shut down. Now, in a place where there are so many suspicious murders, you don't have to say that. If you're sensitive about this, encourage the House to form a research commission, and we'll go through it together. If what we say is inconclusive, we'll come forward with the report, we'll share it with the General Assembly. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0036par0490	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The Peace and Democracy Group has proposed...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0037par0495	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit01spe0036par0496	I'm gonna put it in your votes, and I'm gonna call the number of decisions I need to make. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0036par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote of the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal, given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday (7/5/2013), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On June 1, 2012 and 5354 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it has been suggested that our motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation on Tuesday (7/5/2013) in order to strengthen our family institution, in order to determine the measures for which many families should be broken down and why our children should be victimised and to be investigated for the reasons that need to be taken. Mr. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP. Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0038par0018	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Parliamentary Movement Party to strengthen our family institution, to determine the measures to determine the dissolution of many homes, the depletion of family institutions, and thus the reasons for our children's abuse, and the reasons for their divorces and causes for their investigation. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, Mr. Ibrahim Yazman, the president of Burasspor, who was sent to eternal life, I offer my condolences to Sir İbrahim Yazman as the Nationalist Movement Party from Allah, to his family, to the Bursaspor community, to the Turkish sports world, and to the saints of Bursarians. Dear lawmakers, the institution of marriage is blessed in both our faith and our national culture, it needs to be protected, it needs to be maintained. After saying the foundation of the family's Turkish community, the 41st article of the Constitution was stated that the family's institution was based on equality among the spouses during the 57th government, which included the National Movement Party in 2001. The state must take measures related to the welfare and welfare of the family, especially to the protection of mothers and children. Today, unfortunately, because our political life is turned to dust, it is difficult to say that measures for strengthening the family institution that sustains society can be taken. That's what it's like to talk big talk, get stuck in a bush at your feet while you're looking at the woods in front of you. It's one of the areas where the government ignores the fact that there's not a lot of abuse here, and unfortunately, that's what's going on. Of course, there are social, cultural and economic reasons for this. We're seeing a huge increase in divorce rates. Of course, divorce must be met naturally if there is no more agreement between spouses than marriage, and there is no way to live together. The word "naturality" here contains peace and sorrow, in its nature. Marriage, reunions, divorces, separations, and satrans. One thing at a time, more often than not, it's like a leaf falling off a tree branch, the collapse of the family institution, the breakdown of the nest. Because growing divorces cause the family to be devastated, the tens of thousands of children to be deprived of their love for parents, and ultimately, our children to be repaired, irreparably destroyed. At times, there is a sad end to the truth, such as raising children who are left without a home in the institutions of the state. The problems of these young, who remain out of the warmth of the family environment, are increasing exponentially. They face problems in their individual development, such as not being able to integrate into society, such as alienation to society. Dear lawmakers, divorces must of course be examined and evaluated individually, but it is also a fact that these events are accelerating with social factors or accelerants. There are social factors in fast urbanization, in the apartment life, in the traditional family structure, in transition from the family structure to the core family structure, in the face-to-face removal of relationships. I think it's particularly important that visual media are experiencing degenerations and earthquakes in Turkish culture, and that things that are incompatible with our belief and culture are the most important thing that triggers social causes. There are economic reasons why the family institution is worn out. There's no happiness with money. But we can talk about the extreme intensity of working life that makes wives unable to even see each other in order to provide income shortages, unemployment, lack of money or alimony. Kitchen expenses are up. In February 2013, the increase in kitchen spending increased more than the increase in annual inflation than the previous year. If you take into account the increase in obligatory food products, these numbers are very, very high, but the fire in the kitchen has been a disaster for three or five years, since the increases in employees' wages have not increased in the same rate. In addition to kitchen expenses, if you add other mandatory expenses such as rent, burning, clothing, transportation, health care, education, we can see that the stress and rage of the furnaces are causing a breakdown of the flu, such as the explosion of the flu. The state's minimum wage is not even enough for kitchen expenses. It's 980 lira minimum wage, and the poverty limit is almost 2.5 times that, so it's $2.477. He's a man of many accounts, Mr. Prime Minister, come and get out of this account. Dear lawmakers, the number of couples who got married in 2011 increased by 1.3 per cent from the previous year to 120.117, which means one of every five married couples is divorced. In 2012, when we look at marriages and divorces, we find that this problem has become even more severe. The rate of marriage is 603,751, with an increase of 1.9 per cent, while the divorce rate has passed by 3 per cent with almost twice the increase. The region where divorces are the highest is the Aegean Region, the region where the proportion of reading is the highest in urbanization, which is the western region of Turkey, although it may seem to be a strange contradiction. These high rates in divorce, unfortunately, are the figures of Western Europe, which we accused of being weak in the family structure 20 years ago. What does that mean? Twenty years later, a society where the traditional family structure is resolved, people are alone, they're insensitive, and they're alienating the community in which they live. Are there any of us who have not seen the signs of this sad end today, dear lawmakers? That's not all there is to it. Isn't it the duty of Turkey's Grand National Assembly to provide detailed research on issues such as child labor, domestic violence, alcohol and drug addiction against women and children, increased child crime rates, and youth problems, which is directly or indirectly related to divorce cases? Does this Parliament have no responsibility to produce solution measures to problems? Maybe there are limited variables that can be interfered with, maybe it's hard to solve this as much as the parties want, but can't I at least save a starfish? He believes that the solution to family problems is actually an effect that reduces social conflicts, and as the National Movement Party, we propose to the Supreme Assembly to set up a research commission on family problems and divorces. We'd like to see that our offer on this policy -- I'm sure -- is acceptable to other political parties. I wish to accept our offer, and at the end of my words, I congratulate you on Mother's Day, which will be celebrated next Sunday in our beloved nation. I kiss you with respect, from the hands of the blessed mothers of the great Turkish nation, especially our fallen mothers.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0039par0032	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. On the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker, Mr. Tülay Hişoglu, Ankara MP. Mr. Selamoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0040par0036	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I salute you with love and respect. The motion to open investigations to strengthen the family institution, to investigate the divorce and the reasons for the need for the investigation has been made by the MHP, and I have made a promise against it. What we can say about the family institution is that we, especially the AK PARTY Group, care about family. We've also proven that this is important with a ministry that we've established. What is this ministry? Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Now, in these studies, I thank you very much for the sensitivity of the MHP, but I want to show you what the work is. Family is important to us because it's the greatest value of our society. Our faith already teaches us that Adam and Eve came into the world as a family, not as a single individual, but as the foundation of mankind. So, do we see any problems with that? We're really seeing it. In particular, we see problems in families as cities quickly increase in populations during the urbanization process. In particular, some work has been done, and practices have begun, as a result of various studies by our Ministry of Family and Social Policy. But there's a work done by the House, we know that. Most likely in November or December, subcommittee work begins under the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission as a subcommittee for divorce. And what has been done in this process? Is family important or a marriage institution important? It's really important. When we were defined, we were described as the Turkish family type, the big family, we were used to it, but the result of urbanization has reduced family members and turned them into small families. This core family is really small, and we know in our past that we used to live in small houses as big families, but now we live in big houses as small families, and that brings a lot of trouble. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy provides different practices, studies, guidance and counselling services, especially when the family institution is in its first place or later, as long as it continues, or when families want to finish the process. In the process of starting marriage, they have pre-marital training programs built by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. In order to carry out this programme, the protocol with the Turkish Co-ordinatorial Union organised the implementation of the Pre-Marriage Education Programme by all municipalities across the country. For this, training in 81 provinces has been completed. Education is not only given to couples who are about to get married, but also to private and private underprivileged students from police schools and universities. The purpose of these trainings is: the problems that groups who intend to build a marriage nest and create a family will experience within this system, training on crisis management, love, respect, and human values. 2,000 people were raised as pre-marital training instructors, and education has reached 22,000 people so far. Couples who have reached the age of marriage with the Prenuptial Education Programme and have come together to start a family were intended to prepare for married life. The Prenuptial Education Programme provides couples with an opportunity to make a good start in marriage, to learn how to communicate effectively in order for couples to get to know each other well, to create realistic prospects for marriage. But there's a second process: family education programs. Again, in this programme, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy continues to promote family education programmes consisting of twenty-three modules in five areas, including in education, health, law, media and economics, designed as a product of a three-year work, designed to provide families with the capacity to solve problems for themselves, especially parents. By now, more than 450 educators have been trained to organise these trainings across the country and to provide training in 11 counties. Through our sponsors, 115 thousand books were distributed through sponsors who supported the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. In 2013, these books will be distributed to our citizens with training to be opened in our provinces. By 2018, we are training 500 formatters, 5,000 trainers, to deliver these trainings to 6 million of our citizens. In the first four months of 2013, we reached over 10,000 citizens. The main approach to the program is family life education, which is prerequisite for preventiveness, informative and educationality. The problem isn't treatment or crisis-oriented, it's vision-oriented education. But if this divorce process is in the process of disrupting what we call a family, then there is a third guidance system, and it's being implemented by our Ministry. This was launched in five counties as a pilot. Ankara, Kırıkkale, Burdur, Izmir and Karabuk were selected as pilot provinces, and the family support and family counselling services began to address these problems. The counselors serving at these service centers have been given in-house training to provide counseling and information for couples who are in the process of divorce. While the pilot application process began in the last three months of 2012, a more comprehensive training programme for consultants has been prepared. In co-operation with family courts, it has been popularized across the country to provide divorce counseling for couples applying to courts. During this period of 2013, this pilot was granted counseling for 450 families during the work that would be completed, allowing 75 families to decide on the continuation of their marriages. Studies are continuing to promote the programme across the country. The divorce counselling service is also under three topics -- support and counselling work -- after support and counselling services and divorce -- if the divorce decision is clear, and the module is conducted with studies. We care about family, we know that this society is based on family, but especially, our goal is to prevent families from getting divorced. There's all kinds of social services. This process, you know, has started in the last four years, and there have been studies about it. In particular, we thank the sensitivity of the National Movement Party, but I give everyone my love and respect by informing them that these studies have already been done, the workshops have already been completed, the applications have been completed -- some of them are pilots, but -- that the end of 2013 will be happening throughout the country. I've made a promise against you because work has begun and continued on this research motion. My respects.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0041par0049	Thank you, Mr. Selamoglu. The third speaker on the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, in favour of İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük. Mr. Little, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0042par0053	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the nationalist movement party's proposal. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, as the social structure differs and transforms, so does the family institution. As you know, changes in social institutions are fundamentally the result of economic transformations. Of course, social structures, such as culture, religion, tradition, are also key factors in these changes. All of these things have different speeds and densitys, but they can be said to be interacting with each other. However, transformations in the economic structure are a fundamental driving force for social institutions to change. The family structure is the basic social institution where economic problems are reflected directly. If you can't make a living, if you can't promise your children a happy future, if you doubt tomorrow, if you can't feel safe about yourself and your family, if your hope is running out every day, then it's impossible to maintain the family structure. This is what happened in Turkey. It is also inevitable that the neoliberal policies implemented will produce this result. See, according to the research of the income and living conditions published in September 2012, the percentage of 20 per cent of the highest income is 46.7%, while the share of the first group with the lowest income is only 5.8 per cent. According to the same study, 16.1 per cent of the population is below the poverty line and 18.5 per cent of those at constant risk of poverty are at the same rate. These figures show us one fact: the social structure has suffered a severe concussion, especially in recent years. It is not possible to count a country with such an unfair distribution of income without problems. The mortgage and credit card debt to the banks of the household increased 74 times between 2002 and 2012. In 2003, consumer loans of $12.8 billion amounted to $179.8 billion and credit card debt of $4.4 billion reached 66.9 billion. These figures are the natural result of an economic policy that doesn't produce, does not create jobs, which is only sustained by fueling internal consumption. Dear lawmakers, these debt figures are not only about the economy, these loans, these figures are also about life. These numbers are the expression of going off and finding madness to find heaven on earth. Dear lawmakers, the increase in divorce numbers increases their intensity over the years following crisis periods. The 2001 year, when the effects of the crisis felt painful, peaked at 145,700, the largest number of divorces in the last 12 years. The divorces, which took place in 2003-2004, reached 117,410, again in 2009, when the crisis was felt. So, there's a clear parallel between the economic crises and the number of divorces, and the coming period is a period of economic distress because growth rates are falling, unemployment tends to increase, household debt is growing, and unfortunately, these clear indicators are indicators of a crisis in the coming period. It is possible to observe the change of the family institution, the dissolution of the traditional family, urbanization, the differentiation of social values, not just in Turkey, but in any society that has had an economic transformation, more or less, fast or slow, but in our country, this transformation is painful. In the change of the family structure and in the number of divorces, there is also a change in the economy as well as the effects of the dissolution of the traditional family, income distribution disorder, migrations, and rapid urbanization. If you fail to feed people where they were born, it is inevitable that there will be mass migrations to cities. In our country, the population that thrives on agriculture is losing revenue every day. If you ignore the problems that this is going to cause, you can't just face the increase in divorce numbers, you can also cause a social resolution, a social explosion. Of course, it's possible to prevent it. It is possible to avoid this danger by implementing policies that will enable people to feed where they were born, not to sacrifice them to the World Trade Organization programs, but the economic policies that are currently being implemented do not give them any hope. Dear lawmakers, it is not only the economic situation that is corrupting; there is a disruption, a setback in every area from freedom of the press to the use of rights and freedoms. Such setbacks in the use of basic rights and freedoms were also included in the US State Department's latest Human Rights Report. In the report, the law guarantees freedom of assembly. However, the government has selectively limited it to specific dates or venues, and if it is particularly critical of the government or is concerned about sensitive issues, it has followed its ban on demonstrations. The events of the last May 1st also prove that. It seems there is no tolerance for opposition. This insufferability fits into every aspect of life. Those who don't like the government's practices, critics, are suddenly branded as the enemy of democracy. Those who differ from the government, those who have different viewpoints, are declared enemies of peace. This understanding, this insufferability, threatens social peace, it is necessary to see it now. Freedoms, especially freedom of expression, are for all of us, not only for those who think like the Justice and Development Party. Of course we'll think differently, of course we'll express our differences, no one should fear these differences, no one should frighten anyone by differences. Dear lawmakers, from the point of view of those who run our country who can't stand these different ideas, this other language, which is used, reflects on every aspect of our social life, the street, even our family life. When this language is combined with economic problems, it brings our society, our family lives, into an atmosphere of intolerance, and we need to see it now. Therefore, we must oppose whatever intolerance comes from whomever comes. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, any problem can be overcome, the economic situation can be improved, the number of divorces can be made reasonable, we can deal with all of this, but we can't deal with intolerance. He says it's what keeps us together, multiplys us, makes us who we are, respect each other, and tolerance for those who don't think like us, that I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0043par0064	Thank you, Mr. Little. On the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, the final speaker is Mr. Ali Ercoshkun. Mr. Ercoshkun, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0044par0068	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a promise against the National Movement Party Group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Of course, today, on the first day of the week, we continue with the BDP and then the group proposals from the mp. After all, we have respect for the group proposal prepared. Surely they prepared a group proposal and presented it to the General Assembly to bring up a matter they considered important to them. But, as you know, the decision we've made earlier today will be a one-hour study of questions and answers by our Minister Cevdet Yilmaz. And then we'll continue our work on the law that we started last week -- in short -- on PTT. Therefore, the National Movement Party has stated that we respect the group's proposal, but I would like to present it to the General Assembly's discretion that we will be against it, and I would respectfully welcome you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0045par0074	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0046par0075	Mr. President, it's just a matter of time before...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit02spe0045par0076	Now, I'm going to put the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0045par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 100th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision of the National Movement Party Group to vote on the 19th amendment of the Civil Code was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I'm going to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups during the consultation board's meeting Tuesday (7/5/2013), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkes and 21 MPs issued a parliamentary research motion on 13/04/2012 to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (35 rows) to investigate and determine the measures needed to be taken by the ectimimisical cases against religious officials who reside in the headquarters of the General Directorate of the Foundation of Turkey. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday (7/5/2013) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Ihsan Ozkes, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0047par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the General Directorate of the Foundation, which resides in mosques under the right of the right to use of the President of the Dianet Affairs, is charging hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt to the religious authorities. The Ministry of Diet Affairs is trying to raise money from the imam, while six shops are receiving millions of dollars from mosques, while the Foundations' General Directorate is renting the minarets to GSM companies. The Ministry of Religious Affairs, which sends secret orders for the electricity money of churches and synagogues, remains indifferent to the difficulties in mosques and does not lift a finger for its victims. Dear MPs, this year's theme of Kutlu Birth Week is, as you know, the honor of humanity. It is almost as if the religion is watching these cases that undermine the honor of its own staff. Our honored religious officials have not been left on the street or washed thousands of pounds of debt, but the only thing that hurts them is that they have been called by the government in mosques in which they have served for many years. Supreme Court 4. Despite the legal department's decision that no rent can be asked from mosque legitimacy, the fact that different decisions are being made in the courts puts hundreds of religious officials in a difficult position. On 22 August 2001, the General Directorate of the Foundation voted that the law be used in accordance with the terms of its dedication, but the procedural cases are still being filed against the clergy. Conqueror 1. The Court of Peace has ruled that the General Assembly of the Foundations, dated 22/8/2001, favours the sitting of the defendants and therefore is not permitted to rule on the demand of accrue due to unjust occupation. Members of the law, the legitimate in the courtyards of the historical mosques were built with mosques by our philanthropist apocalypse. In these legalities, religious officials who serve as trustees of imam-religious muezzin reside. These places are usually neglected. With their own means or the help of the mosque congregation, religious officials have been able to repair these areas and bring them back to the present day. The area of the historical mosques is usually not a place of residence. The clergy guard the mosque and its surroundings day and night from thieves, bandits, thinners, and all sorts of negatives. It is only possible for religious officials, who begin their duties very early in the morning and continue their duties late in the night, to be at their posts during the morning and at the night prayer, to sit in the houses next to the mosque. Members of parliament, I proposed the law a year ago, so that there would be no fee taken from the religious officials who reside in the legitimacy of the historical mosques whose property belongs to the foundations. I wish this would be discussed immediately. The week we are in is the week of the Foundations. Sadly, in this week's case, religious officials who are condemned to pay large sums of money are sad, and their families are miserable. Foundation property has two status status. Like mosques, places of worship are good, and places of income, such as shops and workplaces, flow. Since mosque legitimacy is part of the dwelling of religious officials, it is wrong to be regarded as a revenue stream, and it is not suitable for its purpose. The General Directorate of Foundations must give up its occupier look at religious officials and withdraw its proceedings. Because with these cases, religious officials and their families are victims, they face the threat that they will be evacuated if they do not pay the specified financial sums. The evacuation of religious officials from their homes and the rent of these dwellings to other institutions or individuals is a public loss of confidence. Members of parliament, the charity owner has not neglected the legitimacy for teachers who will serve the mosque as they perform the mosque. It is either the teacher himself or the association or the congregation that does its maintenance. Besides, it's imperative that the teacher sit here day and night to protect the mosque. In addition, the allocation of these legitimacy is the mufti of the place where they serve, and no religious official resides in these places without the approval of the mufti. It is a shame in the state that even though he is a minister of religion, these officials who provide the mosques and its client with the cleanness, care and repair, and give our citizens religious services without the holiday holiday and the weekend holidays. This persecution of the teachers must be removed. The Foundations are asking for the past year's wages and interest and court costs from the masters. This practice, which exceeds the power of religious officials to pay, and destroys their lives, must be terminated immediately. Members of parliament can't see the bomb Israel dropped on Muslims with an ounce of faith in them as God's blessing. No one with an ounce of faith will enjoy the cry of the Muslim children who gave their lives with the bombs of Israel. The MPs will not act with Israel against the Muslims, who have an ounce of faith in God. And Allah does not rebuff the verses of Allah, who believes only in an atom's weight. Those who believe not in the Qur'an, but follow the orders of other powers. The honoured are not the servants of the outside, rather than the servant of God, who has an atom's weight of faith in him. Dear lawmakers, may God curse Yazid, who brutally martyred our beloved Prophet Hazeti Hussein, and those of us who were with the outside forces who turned the Islamic world into a pool of blood. I'm waiting for your approval votes for the investigation of these criminal cases where the clergy are victimized, deprived, persecuted. My compliments to all of you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0048par0032	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. Mr. Ömer Faruk Öz, MP of Malatya on the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0049par0036	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party's Party (CHP) to submit a motion for research at the point of economies regarding the legitimacy of the Foundation General Directorate. I hereby salute your high council. Everyone knows that real estates run by the General Directorate of Foundations are split in two because it's good and flowing. The balance of pain and prosperity is essential to the foundation's survival. The foundation has shown maximum sensitivity to this balance so that a foundation can live. If a foundation doesn't have a flow, so it doesn't have enough income to meet its terms of charity, then the foundation doesn't have a chance to live. It prevents the good from going on, the things that are reserved for charity. And since there is no good in it, nor does it continue, We will give its streams first, so that it may prosper. Therefore, the rulers and the trustees must observe this balance and act accordingly. This is the right of the foundation to the administrators. Acting according to the will of the foundation is an act that every ruler must do. Otherwise, it would be against the will of the trustee, which is a great sin. We can list the legitimacy specified in the motion in three categories: 1) There is no shortage of legitimate locations written in the vacuum, and our mosque officials are taking advantage of it free of charge. 2) Despite the legitimacy of his vaqueriet, there are places that have been destroyed and made by the congregation. And it's true that from 1999 to 2004, the rent was no longer taken from here from 2004. There are legalities made by the congregation on the 3rd place, which is blessed or flowing. If Hayrat was made legitimately, even though he was not in his foundation, then a symbolic housing fee is being taken under the Public Housing Authority. Even if it's built on a surface, even if it's calculated over the price, the prices that have been paid so far have not risen above normal rent prices. Although he is not a foundation in the process, it is of course necessary to pay the rent on places that are made of good or flow. The most natural example of this is that the legitimacy in places run by the Religious Foundation is also paid for housing in accordance with the Public Housing Rule. That's how you have to take it. The imam, Muezzin, or mufti, who use these legitimacy, sits here and gives or doesn't give part of the rent during their stay, and, by the way, the imam's appointment comes up, leaves or retires, and when our brother, who is a minister of religion, does not pay the rent for a certain period of time, a certain rent is required. In recent years, arrangements were made with Law 4916 and 6111, but our clergy did not apply at the point of benefit. Which, I might add, is a matter of concern to a very few of our religious officials. It has already been known to our religious officials how the AK PARTI rule is held. The General Directorate of Foundations has created a system to address the responsibility of the foundations, especially at the point of legitimacy. In my opinion, this should be the system to be proposed for us as well. There is no law against victimizing a religious officer that does not comply with the consent of the trustee. If this gets out of the system, this time, it's against the consent of the foundation, which is the area that needs to be questioned and responsible. Therefore, as I said at the beginning, we must protect our foundations and our foundations, with the utmost sensitivity to the balance of happiness and the flow of the foundation. If we don't show that sensitivity in all areas, not just in the mosque areas, I'm afraid our trust property will be invaded. Since the first years of the republic, both planned and unplanned real estate has been invaded by the absence of this sensitivity. As in all areas, it has been given to the AK PARTI government to correct, improve, and conform to the consent of the foundation. With the law issued in 2004, the foundations were cleared of the occupation and a massive revenue portal was opened in favour of the foundations. In 2002, the income of the General Directorate of Foundations -- I'm pulling your attention, our MPs -- was $30 million. In 2012, the Foundation's income increased to $350m, though there was no increase in inflation rate. About 12 times that. To achieve that number, the real estate has been transformed into the most efficient investment and cleared of occupation. This success is the result of an exclusive intimacy to the foundation's will. I fear that the foundation will not escape its moral responsibility unless the foundation managers and also the foundation users show this sincerity. This sensitivity should not only remain at the point of income; it should also be shown in fulfilling the terms of charity. In this framework, the Foundations have completed the restoration of 3,750 foundations from 2002 to today, and not only that, they have also provided a salary for 5,000 needy families, a scholarship for 15,000 students, and a food allowance for 20,000 families. It is possible to state, in the context of the parliamentary investigation, that the General Directorate of the Foundation is sensitive to the will of the foundation, as well as to its legitimacy in all matters. Despite all of this, if we have victims of religious officials within this system, the removal of the victims is also part of the responsibility of the General Directorate of the Foundation; for that, he is making the ultimate effort and will take it from there. Therefore, I hereby salute your grand delegation, that we are opposed to the motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation when I end my promises.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0050par0048	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0051par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0050par0050	Third speaker on the Republican People's Party proposal...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0051par0051	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0050par0052	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0051par0053	What I've told you, Mr. Speaker, has taken the wrong meaning. So I have to fix it. I beg of you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0052par0054	I made a pretty good point.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0050par0055	I don't know what kind of misunderstanding he's given you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0053par0056	Is that a thing? Is there an answer because it's misconstrued?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0054par0057	Of course, he just gave it to me this morning, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0055par0058	In a different way...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0056par0059	Doesn't mean it's always gonna be given. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes, in a minute.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0057par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0056par0062	Okay, let him say it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0057par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0056par0064	He'll tell you, sir. Wait a minute. Let's see what he's got. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0058par0068	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the speaker, spoke as if his imams were being eaten by rights...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0059par0069	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0060par0070	I didn't.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0058par0071	...he tried to introduce them as people who didn't fit in with the foundation. God's revelation is that those who fear God most are men of knowledge, and you are not. Now, dear friends, look...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0061par0074	How do you know that? Do you have that kind of authority?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0058par0075	Look, you know what a teacher says? The former imam was sued, the former imam passed away, survived. They're asking me to do it now. A priest says: "The court has come against me. I'm sentenced to pay 17,000 liras, except for the legal fees. My wife has Parkinson's, my son's in the army, my daughter's in college. I'm in a tough spot. Now, some of the professors are suing against the foundation's exemplar case. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Most of these countersuits win. The Foundations are threatening not to press charges against their imams. I have his papers. If you open it, I'll make you miserable. So you can't introduce imams as people who eat rights law.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0062par0080	We didn't present it like that.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0063par0081	Mr. Ozkes, thank you. Now...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0064par0083	Mr. President, I need to make a correction.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0063par0084	Sir?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0064par0085	I have a negative opinion of our hundreds of thousands of religious officials serving in Turkey. I want to make a correction, I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0065par0086	He's loaded it all wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0063par0087	Please, finish in a minute. Mr. President, there has been no other government that has given religious officials as much power as the AK PARTI power, that allows them to receive the price they deserve. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here, you're not supposed to mix apples with pears. We're talking about the foundation. The foundations are good and flowing. We have to manage the foundation in accordance with the conditions stated by the foundation, not by the law. In his foundation, if he says there's a law, we don't charge him, if he's legitimate, we don't take him, but if this mosque's garden is reserved for people to come, to rest, to rest, then what do we do against it? We come in and build a house, we try not to take rent from him. At this point, it's a matter that should not be distinguished from being an imam or being a normal citizen who did it here at the point of rights law. In this regard, we must not leave our imam brothers and our religious officials under suspicion, and it is a rare occurrence that is stated by the valuable speaker. This also began in 1999, and in 2004, this Parliament resolution was cancelled. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0066par0094	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0063par0095	Mr. Ozkes, I beg you, let it end here.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0066par0096	Mr. President, look, I mean it...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0063par0097	Enver Erdem, Elazig MP, to be on your side. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0066par0099	Please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0067par0100	Well, let's hear his opinion, dear.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0068par0101	He's going to say it in terms of his record.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0069par0102	Sir, please, let's not continue this discussion. You said one minute, it was mutually discussed. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0070par0104	It's not an argument, it's a statement.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0071par0105	It's not working, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0069par0106	I've given you a minute and so has he. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0072par0111	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party for Research on the proposal given by the Republican People's Party to determine the measures for the removal of the disputes in the case by investigating the procedural cases against religious officials whose property belongs to the General Directorate of the Foundations. I salute your high council. Honorable lawmakers are staff members of the clergy in general on the premises of our mosques, whose property belongs to the General Directorate of the Foundations, whose use belongs to the President of Religious Affairs. All of these premises were built by mosque congregations to accommodate mosque officials. It is not possible to enlighten our citizens in religious and moral matters at their site, not only to pray five times, but to accept that our imams and clients, who served as official religious ministers of the state of the Republic of Turkey, who had been assigned to this mission with sound sources, with real knowledge and with various trials and trainings, were declared to be invaders at the mosque where they resided by the authorities of the General Directorate of the Foundation. The use of mosque contractors to any department of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is not a condition that can be accepted by the General Directorate of the Foundations to identify our imams and experts as invaders without any questions about who is in residence, and to be subject to lawsuits related to officers who have not paid their dues, as well as to those who have lost the cases being carried out and facing eviction decisions. In addition, it is not acceptable for the Foundations to apply some mosque legitimacy to a citizen or to be tendered in multiples by the district managers. Without regard for the status of the foundation's goods, regardless of whether it flows or is good, these procedures will bring unrest and errors. It is a question of when the AKP government will start taking rent from mosques, which have imposed rent on structures within the mosque area, which is used as a Koran course or as a mufti service building. Although, we've heard from the press that there are rentals for places like parking and entertainment on mosque rooms and destroyed mosques. Dear lawmakers, including regulations concerning the use of mosque legitimacy by the General Assembly of Foundations 6/1999 and 1089/16, have brought a large number of religious officials in the past 14 years to face high pricing costs, rent costs, evictions, lawsuits, trials. On 22/8/2001, the General Directorate of the Foundations stated that the Article 2/A of the 1999 General Assembly of Foundations was intended to remove the cases against the mosque's imams and muezzins based on this arrangement. It is the 2010/343 basis of the Court of Peace and 2011/728. Although Lu's Decision and the General Assembly of the Foundations ruled that the decision dated 28/8/2001 is in accordance with the legitimacy of the defendants, therefore it is not possible to decide with the ectimimicil, which was demanded due to unjust occupation, the problem remains. Again, in the same context, Supreme Court 4. Despite the decision by the Legal Office in 1966 that the mosque legitimacy cannot be asked for rent, these problems continue the same way. I mean, we agree with the statement from our congressman, who was speaking as a representative of the AK PARTY, who was just a valuable speaker. So, of course, it's important that the flow of funds is given to rent on the track prices to increase their revenues. In any case, the increases in these revenues are all about fixing the errors here, or the legitimate ones there, or the imams, the muezins, the Koran course professors, the revenues from the revenues from these suppliers have not increased from $350m to $350 million, and it is imperative to emphasize that the revenues of the funds have not increased from $350 million. Dear lawmakers, the state is the problem-solving state. It is a concept that predicts problems with state citizens and public officials, and even after these problems have arisen, it solves these problems. Otherwise, it's not the right approach to a government logic that makes a large number of public officials a defendant in a court of law through an arrangement he's made. Dear lawmakers, I especially address the EC PARTY MPs, who have been given this motion to investigate these problems of our imams, our muezzins -- these public officials who have been politically supportive to you -- have been given this motion, come, support this research proposal. If there's a problem, if there's a problem, there's no problem. If you say it's a problem, it'll come out as a result of the investigation, and it'll be determined that there's no problem. Therefore, the motion must be adopted so that these people, whose duties are merely to do religious services, cannot be engaged in other matters other than their own. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to make it clear to you that I, our imams, our muezzins, our Koran course teachers, some of our preachers, may have some issues. Primarily, imams, muezzins, as with other public officials, are not faced with an eight-hour daily work situation, but is a very loyal and humble part of the day that has to work at least 18 hours a day. Again, we're talking weekly holidays, no official vacations. Now, public officials in these parts demand a fair system in their pilgrimage, umre, and abroad deployment, so they want to detect personnel who will be assigned abroad to the pilgrimage and the Umree, with more objective criteria than a method by some people or politicalally favoured public officials to perform Hajj and Umrea. Again, in this week's use of their vacations, the muftüs have a number of different applications and challenges in some places, and they want them removed. They want the appointment problems to be dealt with in order to eliminate the problems of religious officials whose families have been in the villages for a long time and whose children have been broken up because of their education. Again, they want to provide ease for the appointment of those in need, without applying for replacement requests, a political set of criteria, etcetera, etcetera. The imams, the muezzins and the Koran instructors, who have no home, have demands for the completion of their quarters, they want them to be taken care of. They're demanding that they be assigned to the staff by giving up contracting personnel on 4/B. They want to pass four years of the Completion Program without a test. They want all employees to benefit from 3,000 additional indicators. They want to make sure that there is absolutely no pressure on the political issues of public officials working in the religious services area, which we highly respect for them, including their appointments, promotions, et cetera. So, dear lawmakers, come to this motion, let's all say, "Yes." I say, let's unify this problem that our imams shouldn't be facing. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0073par0130	Thank you, Your Grace. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group, the last speaker, Mr. Bkent Turan, is an Istanbul MP. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0074par0134	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge against the CHP group proposal, and I salute you all. Our Malatya MP, Mr. Ömer Faruk Öz Bey, has just given us a detailed answer, and they say that we will be entrusted with the trust. Besides, the imams know about us, the imams know about the group proposals, so I won't bring it up too much. But, Mr. President, in order to make a note of history today, I'd like to point out that yesterday was one of the days in this country's history that were described as the anniversary of shame. Yesterday was the anniversary of the execution of Deniz Gezmiş, and his friends, whom all of us were on the agenda, particularly the CHP MPs were talking about. I, first of all, ask the grace of God of anyone who has ever come to the attention of this political history, who has paid the price for illegal judgments after different times of coup. I'd like to express my shame about this as much as politics has flaws in it. On February 28th, the trials after the coup were paid the high price, the great tribulations. After 80 coups, the sons of this country paid a great price for the right-wing leftist. When we look back on the previous period, after 71 verses, many young people, including Sea Travelers and their friends, have paid the price in this country, these are our embarrassments. When we turn around and look back, and we're sad, and we've learned a lesson, and we've had a lot of things that we've called, but for the past decade, we've taken serious steps with the legal reforms and judicial reforms that we can never do again. In order to make one matter more clear today, I would like to mention one thing: Today, in their talks on behalf of our fellow Republicans, Sea Gezmiş and his friends, because of their opposition to imperialism, their desire for independence, I die once in honor of my country's independence and the happiness of my people; you who hang us will die every day with your asshole. Until yesterday, this is how I used to view the subject, assuming that the people who hanged Deniz Gezmiş were right-wing, conservative people in the nails. But after these talks, we're lawmakers now, and I looked at that time, and I looked at that time, and I took the minutes of that time, and I came across a grave painting. Dear friends, I have the bill of the death penalty of Deniz Gezmiş and his friends - Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan, Hüseyin Believer - the official document. In this document, I was very sorry to see that the sea does not die. I saw that our friends, their old friends, and their former deputies, did not share the sensitivity of the ones who went to their funerals and made a number of them, who brought it up every day. I wish your predecessors and your friends were as sensitive as you are, to be as concerned about these matters as you are, but to have as many young men as you are, who claim to be fighting for the independence of this country, so that they would not be hanged. In my document, the bill on the hanging of Deniz Gezmiş and his friends on the day of the hanging of the people of the CHP states that the execution was yes. These are official reports.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0075par0138	Who are they?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0074par0139	For those of you who wonder who they are, the ones in this official document, the ones in yellow, they're CHP friends.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0076par0140	100 of them have already escaped. None of them voted.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0074par0141	Again, I'm not saying anything bad, what I'm saying is that you're sensitive, you're doing what's necessary, but I wish this democratic attitude, if only the former CHP MPs had shared this legal attitude as you did, and the other MPs in 70 have not been able to complete 30 votes on CHP today.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0077par0142	What's the total vote, total vote? Give us the vote and we'll find out.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0074par0143	I said it to remind you of a historical fact. I give documents to all the friends who say, "What's the roll call?" So there are 450 MPs, 144 CHP MPs, close to 30. Yes, they vote. Two of them abstain, and the others don't. But if 30 of them had not said yes, and those who had not joined, they might have gone in today, perhaps they would have been among you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0077par0144	How many people were involved?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0074par0145	So once again, your sensitivity, our sensitivity. I didn't give you a chance to pick on me, so I paid attention. Once again, I wish your representatives at the time were as sensitive as you, as democratic, as opposed to coups as you are, but today -- I'm sure -- had never been a black picture of this country's execution. But I'll say it again. Dostoyevsky has a saying: Either you face your mistakes or you face your mistakes. I'm taking today's talks as a confrontation, and I want to accept it as an apology, and that's what I'm saying so I don't have to pick on you. I hope that the CHP will be against the coupgers in the coming date, that it will be on the side of the law, that it will not vote for the hanging of the Sea Travelers or other people in the opinion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0078par0147	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0079par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0078par0149	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0079par0150	Now, the speaker, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, has made some assessments of the speech he's made to the Republican People's Party, so we'd like a word, sir. Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk will speak.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0080par0151	I didn't give you a name, Mr. President. I even congratulated you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0078par0152	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0081par0156	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hussein, have made a statement regarding the executions of İnan. Now, you know, the court's death sentences are discussed and voted on by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Death sentences against Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan, and Hüseyin İnan have been discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly. The reports dated April 24, 1972, such as Nuri Erdogan -- I don't know which party he belongs to, but probably at that time from the Justice Party -- say, "Well, then, if they only wanted a regime change, then it would be possible to forgive them, but they're acting with the intention of killing a nation. This is not an epiphany of hatred, hatred, revenge; this is a struggle to save a country. Everybody argues. Ismet Inönu, the president of the Republican People's Party -- I don't know what some individual lawmakers have said except that -- he comes to the stand and says: "The punishment for these young people's crimes is not death penalty." In fact, that report will come now. I had it, so I sent it to the thing. Necdet Uğur then takes the stand on behalf of the Republican People's Party: the High Assembly does not decide as a court. The High Assembly decides from another angle. He's deciding for the future of a society. If we think about it now, ten years from now, 20 years from now, they're going to be sitting in this community in our place, and if they're going to look at it any other way, why are we taking this right from them and sending some people to the death penalty? Let them have a look. (Whispers in Justice Party rows) There are words of Nihat Erim. There are words of Muammar Eren. But there is the fact that the Republican People's Party at that time, Ismet Inönul, was openly opposed to the executions of Deniz Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. I wanted to bring this to your attention. Since our friend is young, I don't think he's read enough history. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0082par0164	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0083par0165	Mr. President, the speaker friend said that the Imams also know themselves, and that they know us who offer group suggestions.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0084par0166	Okay. What?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0085par0167	What a look you're looking at!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0086par0168	Yes, please... Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0087par0170	So...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0088par0171	Mr. President, let me correct them, they don't know each other.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0086par0172	Sir, tell him what you have to say and he'll be in control. We're done talking about this. I'm sorry. I gave it to you before, and you're going to renegotiate...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0089par0173	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, from the stand, our attitude towards the mosque, against the mosque, is known to the public, and so is the motion maker. So we're the ones who are credible, and the owner of the motion has no credibility. He is saying unrealistic things. He made an assessment of what Mr. Ozkes said in the sense that he meant something else. Mr. Ozkes would like to use his right to tease me about this assessment, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0088par0174	There's a democratic culture, aren't we, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0090par0175	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, in exchange for a statement expressed by the owner of the motion, the men of knowledge are the most afraid of God. The suspect you're afraid of. He used a phrase that meant something.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0091par0176	That's not what I'm saying, it's God!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0090par0177	It is inappropriate for a religious officer to point out that he is not. In particular, the clergy should know that no one has the right to rule over his faith. See, our speaker friend also knows the owner of the proposal, and he knows what the opponents are. He showed people as referees. What's there to be offended about? People are going to review it, they're going to look at it, and if he wants to make a decision about it in the chest... the referee is the people. He's going to object, don't tease, what's wrong?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0092par0178	Not at all, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0093par0179	Mr. Hamzacebi, what do you say?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0094par0180	Sir, this is a separate discussion. Now, Mr. Ozkes, Mr. Turan has clearly made a mockery of Mr. Turan. So when we say Islam, we come to mind, not you. He made an assessment.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0092par0181	No, Mr. President. What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0093par0182	Mr. Hamzacebi, now, they only know about us, and they know about the motion makers. When you say "proposal owner," it's already the Republican People's Party. And you answered him, and he's in control. If you'll excuse me, we'll continue.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0095par0183	Now, sir, look...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0093par0184	Mr. Ozkes, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0096par0185	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0097par0186	If you promise, Mr. President, I won't be picking on you like that.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0098par0187	I'm asking you to seriously...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0099par0188	Sir, look, I'll get the records. There's something you're saying, and it creates a bigger argument.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0097par0189	There's a lot more.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0099par0190	I'll get the records. I mean, here's what you're saying out of context. I say we leave it here.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0100par0191	How does he know?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0101par0192	It's not me, it's God.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0102par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0103par0195	Don't be nervous.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0104par0196	What is the matter with you? Look, this is the Deputy Director of the Group. I'm not stretching anything. I'm just trying to calm him down. If you want more time, I'll give it to you. It's got nothing to do with it. But don't interfere. You have no interference when your own Group President is talking.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0103par0197	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0104par0198	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0105par0199	Mr. President, now, I don't think there's any need to prolong this discussion. This is a matter of your discretion. I'm under the impression that Mr. Ozkes is being bullied, that's my opinion. Mr. Ozkes agrees. Let him explain, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0106par0200	Mr. President, I'd like a word then, because they know who's in charge of the motion. What's the big deal? That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0104par0201	Just a moment, sir. Mr. Hamzacebi, I sincerely believe that there is no bullying, but I will promise you one moment. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0107par0206	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The speaker, the men of religion, know you as well, and they know us as well, so we don't need to talk about it. Now, I'm the one with the motion. I am a retired mufti, and I thank God for being a retired mufti, and I thank God for being a member of the Republican People's Party. (CHEERING) At least I'm at a party that doesn't get the rights.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0108par0210	SOLDIER, SOLDIER...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0109par0211	Let's hear it, fellas.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0107par0212	Now, the other thing, the foundation, those who built the mosque three hundred years ago, five hundred years ago, did the AKP make money for power?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0110par0213	What do you mean, power earns money?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0107par0214	The mosque's residence is so that you can make money. Did they make you do it?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0111par0215	Congressman, those funds are going into the trust account.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0107par0216	You can't take money from a mansion in the courtyard of the mosque. We call it that because the foundations don't spend a penny on it. The Imam spends its own money, either the association or the congregation pays it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0111par0217	That money goes into the trust's account, it doesn't go into anyone else's account.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0107par0218	So you know, but the imams don't?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0111par0219	Let him make amends if you do not know. May God reform you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0107par0220	As for the money, you know it. You even think of imams as money! Have fear of God.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0112par0221	Calmer, calmer, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0113par0222	Mufti sir, this doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0114par0223	Don't abuse me! Don't abuse religion.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0113par0224	It doesn't suit you, Mufti sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0115par0225	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0114par0226	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0115par0227	Your Grace, please, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0116par0228	Slandering doesn't suit the Mufti. You're slandering me. Mufti sir, you're slandering me. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0115par0229	Mr. Ozkes, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0117par0230	Why do you blame the imams?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0116par0231	I advise you, fear God.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0115par0232	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0117par0233	How do you show imams as people who eat rights law? How do you make it look like you don't know justice? Who's slandering you? You or me?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0116par0236	You're slandering me! You're slandering me from the stand!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0118par0237	You're lying! There are no lies in Islam.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0119par0238	Mr. Ozkes, thank you. Mr. Turan, please... one moment...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0120par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0119par0241	What is it? Are you going to answer me?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0120par0242	Mr. President responded even though I didn't have a pick-up.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0119par0243	All right, let's just leave it here. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0121par0245	Faith and lies don't mix.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0122par0246	Yeah, that's right, that's right!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0119par0247	Please, please, Mr. Ozkes... friends, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0123par0249	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, in my speech just now, I gave you the information, the documents about the Sea Traveller. Mr. Mufti, I don't understand why our CHP MP friend was taken, why he got the right to answer, and why you gave him the answer. What I said was that people know about the group's proposal, who are against them, who are in favor of us, and who are in favor of us. It's like -- I'm so sorry -- the air is damp, the duck thing. Is that even possible? I don't know why you made promises. That's one. But after I took the promise, I had the right to answer, and he said, "Dear Mufti, I praise God because I am a friend of the CHP."
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0124par0251	How?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0123par0252	And I say, "Praise be to Allah, for we have done the right thing, even though he has repeatedly turned to the AK PARTY." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0255	Thank you. Republican People's Party recommends the group vote...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0126par0260	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0261	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the Republican People's Party group proposal... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0127par0263	Yes, sir, let's do it electronically.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0264	Sir, just a second... There's a disagreement between the clerks, I'll run a check on the electronics. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0267	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0268	I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0270	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0271	Don't shout, I'll...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0272	Look, I'm asking you, Mr. President... he accused me of running for AKP.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0273	Please... please... please, Mr. Ozkes, please, don't shout.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0274	You're welcome...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0275	Explain it another time. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0277	Mr. President, I seek refuge in God from running from the AKP! You're welcome...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0278	He's in control, he's in control.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0279	I can't accept such an accusation!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0125par0280	He's out of control, he's out of control. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0282	Wait a minute... Mr. President, I beg you... if I'm a candidate from the AKP, I'm an asshole, and it's a bastard who doesn't prove it! Not like this! Mr. President, please... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I seek refuge in God from running from the AKP! I haven't been that much of an asshole!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0129par0285	Why is he being so rude, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0130par0286	Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0128par0287	Says who? Who the fuck says that? Who the fuck says that? Don't talk!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0131par0288	Teacher, it's okay... he'll promise...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0132par0289	I promise, after the vote. Go ahead, go ahead, I'll give it to you after the vote. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0133par0292	Mr. President, you've stated that you presented it to the roll call. You stated in the reports that you were looking for a roll call. I'm offering you a roll call. You said it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0132par0293	Yeah, I did a roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0134par0294	He said, "I submit to the vote." Mr. President, you've taken a vote. It was a slip of the tongue.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0133par0295	Well, then, do you know if there's enough to go around? Do you have enough for a meeting, sir?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0132par0296	I said I'll vote with electronics.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0133par0297	But you offered him a roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0135par0298	No, he can't do roll call. It must have been a slip of the tongue.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0133par0299	You said "disruption," sir. You can do a resen roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0135par0300	You can't resen, Mr. President. Resen can't do roll call, he can do it at the opening.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0136par0301	Sir, it was a vote, and I explained the result. OK, VURAL- he can do it every time. Without correcting the verdict... Wait a minute. You want me to vote again?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0137par0305	No, you offered to roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0138par0306	No, sir, you didn't offer it to roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0136par0307	Sir, I may have said that, but the vote has already been repeated because the clerks disagreed.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0137par0308	No, that's what you said when you said "dispossession."
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0136par0309	It could be my master, the human condition, I may have said it by mistake, but I voted that the vote was not enough... and I voted that I would vote with the device instead of voting between the clerks because there was a disagreement. I've already put them to a vote, and since they didn't get along, I did it with the device.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0139par0310	You asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0140par0311	He's on the books, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit03spe0136par0312	Yes, there are enough decisions. I said, "It's not agreed." I said, "It's not agreed." Sir, I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0136par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before I come to the Justice and Development Party's proposal, I promise Mr. Ihsan Bey. Please, I beg you very much, in two minutes, without a new argument...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0141par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've tried to live my whole life with honor, honor, honor, honor, and I've never lied in my life, and I've never slandered anyone. Today, I have faced the greatest slander of my life. Such cruelty and slander are indeed a most shocking and terrible thing. When I was the mufti of Üsküdar, all of the Skopjedar know that in 1999 I was running for mayor of the Democratic Left Party, and I was running for mayor of the Republic People's Party, and in 2002 I was a candidate for the Republican People's Party, and in the end I became a member of parliament. Now, look, our friend here says, I say, "All praise be to God, for we have done the right thing by not running, even though he has applied to the AK PARTY." If I walk through the door of the AKP, I'm the most dishonest person in the world.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0142par0010	You can't!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0143par0011	Everyone gets what they deserve.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0141par0012	But if he doesn't prove it, he's dishonest, he's dishonorable.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0144par0014	Please! Please!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0141par0015	Such slander is absolutely unacceptable. If I had entered the AKP's gate and had run for office, if I had applied for the nomination, if I had not resigned today, I would have been condemned.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0144par0017	Mr. Ozkes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0141par0018	And if you don't prove it, and you don't give up your parliamentary position, you're out of honor.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0144par0020	Mr. Ozkes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0141par0021	Such slander is absolutely unacceptable.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0145par0022	Mr. President, look, the Congressman spoke as he was speaking here to respond to bullying. Anyone can run from any political party and apply for a nomination.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0141par0024	It's definitely slander. I seek refuge in God from running from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0145par0025	Let go of me... everyone is taking refuge in God. You often take refuge in God. Look, you take refuge in God a lot...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0141par0026	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0145par0027	You always make mistakes, you always make mistakes, you always take refuge in God.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0146par0028	Get out of here! How do you know he made a mistake?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0145par0029	But God's great justice will probably teach you a lesson there. Look, Mr. President, it's not proper for any MP to say such things as the absence of honor, such as the lack of dignity. Here I am grateful to God that our fellow MP is not a candidate for the PATIPY. A man like you says, "I praise God because it does not suit the AK PARTY." What is there to be offended, offended, or otherwise, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0147par0031	Who applied for it?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0145par0032	But it's not fair to say that there is no honor, it's not for a mufti, it's not for a man of the cloth.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0147par0033	If I'm the one who's applying, I'm resigning.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0145par0034	Well, we praise you, and I'm glad you're not one of us. Well, that's a good thing you did.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0147par0035	What am I doing with a bunch of slanderers like you?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0145par0036	How beautiful... how beautiful! Everyone knows about us and you know about us.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0148par0037	Mr. Ozkes, okay, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0149par0039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0148par0040	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0149par0041	Mr. President, I'd like to speak out of taunt and insult.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0150par0042	He said no honor, no dignity. But Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0148par0043	My dear friends, one moment... Mr. Turan, please, let's just leave it at that.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0151par0045	Let me turn it off.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0148par0046	And you can say what you want to say in a minute without insulting me and without being bullied again.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0152par0047	Two minutes, Mr. President. Be fair.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0151par0049	Mr. President, dear friends, I've been here for two years, acting, knowing me, knowing me. I don't mean to insult anyone, I don't mean to say anything without knowing it, but I'm surprised that I found myself in a strange argument. I came here to thank you for your sensitivity to Deniz Gezmiş, and I said, "I wish 30 of the former CHP people were as valuable and as reasonable as you are." If it's a tactic to shut down Sea Gezmiş, I congratulate you, it's a great tactic, but I know the Mufti gentleman from my term as vice president, from my term as vice president, from Skopüdar, from Beyoğlu, I know everyone... it's not a crime! It's not for a man of the cloth to swear and insult so much. (CHP rows) I'm returning that tone exactly. Again, my reason for taking promises is neither mufti nor anything else. What I regret is the condemnation of 30 CHP's people, who are the cause of death in this country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0153par0053	Thank you. Congressmans, the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0154par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0153par0056	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0154par0057	Now, despite my explanation, Mr. Secretary, the Republican People's Party on the Seas has a history of...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0153par0059	Guys, I can't understand what you're saying. If you'll just shut up for a second... Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0154par0061	Mr. President, now that I've made a statement about the execution of the Seas, Your Honor, after their speech, he won't be satisfied, which is exactly what he said. I have a report from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey concerning Ismet Inönun. I want to explain it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0155par0063	The transcripts are already in the records, Mr. President, and they've given us the date!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0156par0064	Mr. Ozturk, you've just told Mr. Inönul to speak, haven't you?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0154par0065	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0155par0066	She said April 1972, and the date is clear, so anyone in the reports can look at it!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0154par0067	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0155par0068	But what you're doing right now is not in order.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0157par0069	The President will appreciate it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0154par0070	I'm not gonna learn from you!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0158par0071	Now, Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0159par0072	You'll find out. You can find out what! I can learn from you, and you can learn from Mustafa Elitas. Is there something wrong with that?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0158par0073	Now, Mr. Ozturk, you've explained here what the President of the People's Party of the Republic at the time, Mr. Inönuh, has already explained in this business, and you're going to say something more?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0160par0074	Yes, but after that, our friend, the secretary, came out again, repeated the same misinformation.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0159par0075	There's no misinformation!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0161par0076	Mr. President, the information is all right!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0162par0077	No, 30 people didn't vote. That's it, that's it? Some of the People's Party of the Republic also voted. He said, "Will you repeat it?"
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0163par0079	No, no voters, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0164par0080	Come on, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0162par0081	Oh, no, you say...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0163par0082	No, sir...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0162par0083	Okay, no one's voting for you in a minute, so just say, "Well, let's get this over with."
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0163par0087	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, this is the Turkish Grand National Assembly Journal, dated 24/04/1972. After a speech was made on behalf of the Democratic Party Group, Ismet Inönü appears on behalf of the CHP Group after being asked to vote on voting for the executions. Ismet Inönü says, "These must see the punishment for their sins, and they will see the punishment. We have a special opinion on these punishments. Let him not be sentenced to death for political crimes. We are on trial. If the death penalty for political crimes is accepted by the Grand Assembly, first the law must be passed... and now, for political crimes, we are not taking action today to avoid the death penalty we call capital punishment. We worked hard from his first day to the military administration at the time, so that those of the Democrats who were sentenced to death wouldn't get the death penalty. We worked hard, we didn't get the result. How, after that, political propaganda against us, as if we wanted those political executions, or we didn't try to make sure they didn't. In the political elections, it was swiftly against us. I don't want to remind them again and provoke our friends to any sort of altercation. Dear friends, this vote -- this vote is not happening on the same day -- and then part of Republican People's Party MPs won't vote on the General Assembly, while others, the participants, vote on rejection; the Justice Party and the Democratic Party accept it. Now, let's forget about the past, but I have a law proposal that the death penalty, the death penalty, be enforced in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The executions of the Sea Gezdi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...for the removal of the law...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0165par0092	That's something else, Ali Reza, that's something else.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0163par0093	...let's take out this bill together, and determine that this death penalty is also inconsequential.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0166par0096	Mr. President, Mr. President, the MP said: "There is no one from the People's Party of the Republic who says yes to the execution." The report in my hand is 24 April 1972: "The Sea Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. Voters: 323. All in favor: 273. Rejectors: 48. Abstentions: 2. All in favor: 118. Open memberships: 9.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0165par0097	Then why didn't you?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0166par0098	I don't know who the CHP people are...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0167par0099	Yeah, it's one thing not to, it's another to vote.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0168par0100	Wait a minute. Please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0166par0101	But among those who agree, for example, I know very well...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0168par0103	Guys, it's okay. Please, please, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0169par0104	You don't need so much demagogy!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0166par0105	Mr. President, among those who have accepted...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0170par0106	They're playing a language game.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0166par0107	They counted: Adana MP, the Republican People's Party's Secretary General, for example, Kemal Line, among those who said yes. For example, one of the famous, Ali Ihsan, who said, "Yes." Mustafa Kemal Çilesiz, Nurettin Özdemir Gümhane MP, MPs like this voted. Our friend says that 30 of the Republican People's Party MPs took part in this vote. I mean, I can't understand what there is to be offended about here. But no Republican People's Party MP said "yes" on his way out of here. He said "yes" and gave false information with the transcripts, in order to correct him, Mr. Kemal Line was probably Republican People's Party in those days. For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0171par0110	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0172par0111	Mr. President, now, look...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0171par0112	My dear friends, now, how long are we going to keep this up? When the vote connects today's parties... you both said what you had to say and went on the record. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0172par0115	Mr. President, now, in this report... once, not on April 24th, that thing is different. Here, in the speech made by Ismet Pasha, Ismet Pasha has already made it very clear that it is a matter of Vicdan. We leave it to people's conscience. We didn't make a group decision. And Ismet Pasha was then -- if he remembers -- Mr. Deputy Director of the Group -- a leader who advocated the appointment of a minister to the government of March 12th. That's why Ecevit and his friends were against it. Ismet Pasha takes this stand as president. He's made it very clear that we don't approve of these death sentences. Other than that, it's not whether some lawmakers gave it to them or not, it's obvious they didn't.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0171par0116	Right, right.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0173par0117	Worse. I wish he'd joined!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0171par0119	Yes, sir. He's on the books. Please, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0174par0120	Mr. President, the number of people who have not voted is twice the size of those who have refused, not the individual.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0171par0122	Yeah, guys, okay, okay, thank you. Mr. Ozturk, thank you. Now, I'm having the Justice and Development Party proposal read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday (7/05/2013), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President On the agenda's part of "The Bill of Law and Other Works From Commissions," 450, 315, 230, 414, 211, 210, 209, 133, 121, 117, 351, 380, 386, 324, 416, 454, 415, 51, 214, 433, 340, 308, 392, 254, 422, 425, 425, 253, and 202. On Tuesday (May 7, 14, 21st and 28th 2013), the meeting of other audit issues, following the meeting of oral questions, was not discussed, and the meeting of other jobs involved in the "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" of the agenda; On Wednesday (May 8, 15, 22nd and 29th 2013), the unspoken questions were not discussed; On Tuesday, May 7, 2013 (today) until the meeting of the 452 Numbered Bill of Laws was completed; Until Wednesday, May 8, 2013, when the talks were completed until the 414 Numbered Bill of Legislature; On Thursday, May 9, 2013, until the meeting of the 51st Bill of Numbers of Laws was completed; Until the completion of the day-to-day program at 2400 p.m. On Tuesday, May 14, 2013, it was 15:00-23. 00; Wednesday (May 15th and 16th 2013) and Thursday (May 14th). Between 00 hours; On Tuesday (May 21st and 28th, 2013), 15:00-20. Between 00 hours; Wednesday (May 22, 23, 29 and 30, 2013) and Thursday (May), 2400-20. To continue his work between the hours of 00 hours; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 450 rows, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form, It's recommended. 450 Orders Turkish Oil Law Bill [[1/725]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDE IN THE CHAPTER 1. Chapter 1 - Article 20 Articles 21 - 29 (27) [[a]] 2. CHAPTER AND (b) dams, second, third, With their fourth and fifth jokes Interim 1, 2, 3 and 4th Articles (also included) 18 On the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, Isparta MP Recep Special. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0175par0164	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favour of the group's proposal to set the working hours this week and this month, which our group has brought as a group proposal because there is no vote on the advisory board. I salute you all. I think in the talks just now, as groups, as parties, we're a little bit more... there may be some misinformation here last week that our Parliamentary President and our four groups of vice presidents have signed, that politics always means that we don't speak well, especially this one, and that we don't take kindly to the fact that a retired muft is a tool. There's nothing here to make up for it by insulting him, not at the point of de-religion, and no one here has a scale to measure religious sensibilities. To you your religion, and to us our religion. Everyone is responsible for their religion. I don't want anyone to...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0176par0167	What kind of talk is that, Recep Special?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0175par0168	Yeah, that's the word. For you is your religion, and for us is our religion, and for each one is his religion. So no one here has a balance to measure our religious values or measure our measurements. So one person's (a) party, (b) party, (c) party may have had a heart-to-heart, and I wish I had been a candidate for that party. Which is why I don't think we need to say hurtful, hurtful, fragile things to each other. A moment ago, Mr. Ozkes was not supposed to give that speech here in the mosque courtyards of imams... where the foundation law, the foundation's purpose, is to continue the foundation's will for a lifetime. I invite him to be sensitive. With today's group proposal, we bring the Oil Law Bill to the front of the agenda, bringing the international agreements that our government has requested from us to the front. And our working hours are 15:00-20 on Tuesdays in May. Between 00 a.m., Wednesdays and Thursdays, 2:00 a.m., 20 a.m. Between 00 a.m., only next Tuesday, 3:00 a.m., 23 p.m. 00, Thursday and Wednesday, 2:00-23. We've set it at 00. We also recommend the Oil Law as the basic law -- God willing. After one hour of verbal questions today -- inshallah -- by the end of the Postal Law, if it doesn't end, we'd like to discuss the rest of it tomorrow and two international contracts and about 15 international contracts on Thursday and finish this week's work. Let's hope it's a good week, and it'll be a good workout. In honor of the congressman, he says, "May God bless us all, sir, to use this bench in a manner worthy of his dignity."
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0177par0173	Mr. Special, thank you. The second speaker is Mr Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin against him. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0178par0177	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. There's probably no committee or institution in any country in the world that argues for four hours to determine their agenda.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0179par0179	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0178par0180	But it's true. You're in charge of what you call it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0179par0181	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0178par0182	Because by securing this compromise, it's your responsibility to establish and accept this General Assembly's work schedule with the opposition, as a ruling group, but unfortunately that's the case. Dear friends, we consider this group's proposals as an opportunity to express the public's agenda, in this General Assembly, on the floor of the Assembly. But unfortunately, now that we're at TRT, we have a consequence of not being able to bring people's agendas back to the public. The Justice and Development Party Group, of course, has the right to determine the agenda of the Assembly again, because it is their responsibility to run the country. But as a group that has spent ten years of years of experience on this subject, I'd like to say that we've expressed it every time. Mr. Elitaş is looking here, but look, last week, I have the program set by the Justice and Development Party group proposal. For this week, you're saying: let's work on Tuesday, May 7, 2013, between 3:00 and 8:00 p.m., but let's work until the end of the proposal you've given us. I don't know how many laws you're going to bring up this week, I can't count, you're probably trying to get 30 laws back on track. You're making fun of people's minds, like you're mocking the minds of the General Assembly, and you're bringing in next week -- until this week's end -- the way you've been putting on this chore again. You'll be gracious next week, 23 o'clock. Let's work until 00. You say. But in the next week, it's like mocking people's minds again at 20 p.m. Let's work until 00. You say. And we know that you're going to change it again, and you're going to bring it back to me by the end. Dear friends, in the spirit of self-respect, in the respect of this institution, the spirit of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the mission requires a little seriousness, please take it seriously. How can you accept a board, a group, an understanding that plays so much by its own decision? Even though we've said it every time, we've done it. It's true what we do. There's a definition, a definition, of understanding. Dear friends, I, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and the executives of the ruling party group, would like to present you with headlines from the nation's agenda. Of course, you're going to bring in international contracts, of course you're going to bring in law to privatize some institutions, so you're going to bring a decision, a program here in line with your own understanding and schedule, but there's also the public agenda, and there's the people's agenda. And we, the opposition parties, bring them to you; you speak the word of the world, and you speak the word of the world. Look, dear friends, a friend of ours has expressed today that the corn producers planted the corn, and in a few months they will harvest it. But believe me now that the Çukurova farmer is shaking. Why? Because you still give licenses to corn importers. Turkey is full of corn. Who's this manufacturer gonna sell the corn to, how much is he gonna sell it to? Investigate a measure, O government, here you are, and our Minister of Development is here. Snow bonuses, fat seed bonuses are late, and even though you promised, he's late. But the manufacturer, the farmer, made a schedule based on your promise, borrowed, promised. He's already a month late. And there's no telling how much later it'll be paid. Why? Apparently, you don't have any cash in the treasure. Another topic, dear friends, is 2/B. In every province where the 2/B issue comes up, there's an apocalypse, dear lawmakers, for each and every one of you. The less comfortable yet are the unexplained provinces of 2/B. You'll see it when it's explained. It's been announced in some counties in Mersin, and I'll tell you the truth, as the opposition party, we stopped them from taking action, and they were going to cut traffic. How much would $400,000 be worth for an acre of 2/B land? How can this farmer, this peasant buy it? You threw a stone into a blind well with your own hands, and now it's been three times to get it out, and you're making a law, and you're not getting out of this blind well if you make a law thirteen times. The 2/B Act is a law of 2/B persecution; it has been a persecution of AKP power against our farmer, our peasant, our people who live by the labor of their hands. But once again, you're on top of your ear, and as a government, you're not bringing it into this House as an agenda. Another thing: We will bring the problems of these farmers to the General Assembly tomorrow as a group proposal. Our Adana MP, Mr. Muharrem Varli, will be here to tell you the details. I hope you'll have a conscience, feel the need to do something. On another matter: Dear friends, you have received authority, you have issued decrees under the law, but you have broken the balance, the order of the law. Look, in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, with the decree issued by the Ministry of National Education, you've put the rights of the staff in order, the same authority that you've issued in the Ministry of Health, you've broken the order. Some of them you have maintained, and some of them you have repelled. For two years, the Ministry of Health has been shouting: "There is injustice here - they have orders - fix it." Here's the government, Mr. Vice President. I can offer you the text that reached me, with its samples. There is persecution, dear friends. If the government develops a sense of justice in its practices, it becomes legitimate or illegitimate. If the state does not act fairly, if it does not act equally, it becomes a state of persecution. The personnel regime that you enforced today at the Ministry of Health has created persecution. And tomorrow, a congressman of ours, Mr. Ali Oz, will bring it up off the agenda. But, please, it's not the show of the opposition, it's not the issues the opposition brings here, it's the troubles of our country and our people. We need to take precautions. People have a lot on their agenda. There is an incident in Hatay, my hometown, in Gaziantep, in Şanlıurfa, because of the Syrian events; because of the smuggling. The produce of the farmer in Hatay, of the farmer in Gaziantep, of the farmer in Şanlıurfa, became partial. So, using your numerical power to determine the government's agenda here, you can change a program at twice, but the public's agenda is yours, too. I've been promised these. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've made a promise against the program you brought in, and I'll rephrase what you're doing is not true. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0180par0198	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Mr. İdris Bauken is an MP in Bingol. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0181par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Although it is written in favor of the proposal, we will speak against the proposal because we do not think that the agenda brought here by the EC PARTY is directly relevant to the public agenda. There are problems on the public's agenda that are much different, much more urgent, but we have to keep the parliamentary agenda busy as the ruling party brings legal arrangements against the private sector, which are constantly opening up the market for capital, private sector, against the worker. Especially this week, and I think, for the past month, one of the most important agendas of this House has been the human drama of sick prisoners. Although we've voiced the drama about this every day, from the press release to the movement on the street in the last month, from the parliamentary platform to the government officials, to our meetings with the Ministry of Justice, despite the fact that politics, the ruling party's humanity has been destroyed behind iron gates and behind concrete walls, there are no solutions, desperate people, health problems, prisoners continue to die within a wall or four walls. Look, the last time we've been in Sincan Prison, we've been interviewing Justice Department officials for two patients. One is Irfan Eskibage, the other is Abdulsamet Steel. Since Irfan Eskibağ was not diagnosed in time, he is diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer because he was recently hospitalized with jaundice. After being diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer, all medical facilities are left helpless and inadequate. After this diagnosis, all treatment attempts to treat the patient have been compromised. All treatment attempts are already inconclusive, and the patient is going to be unable to satisfy his own needs with his melting body; he is unconscious, unconscious, waiting to die. Since Irfan Eskibağ has not been able to satisfy his personal needs for a month... it is your conscience, along with the body of Irfan Eskibağ, who melted between four walls. As we think about it, we demand that this patient spend at least his last days, his last hours, with his own family, with his own loved ones. The need was not done, the insensitivity that has been shown so far has, unfortunately, been carried out with a great lack of conscience, and Irfan Eskiglu has died this evening. Now it's the same process for Abdulsamet Steel. Abdulsamet Çelik suffers from a form of syndrome called Myelodysplastic syndrome that has been transformed into leukemia. The same process now runs for Abdulsamet Steel. So, we're dealing with a ruling party, a sense of power that causes these patients to die in prison conditions where we can't show at least a human virtue that we need to show them in the last few years to get better care, at least a little bit of moral support. A few days ago, I went to Sincan Prison to visit Irfan Eskibağ. After a meeting of the prisoners there to find out about the problems of our fellow inmates, I went to the hospital in Sincan, on the prison campus in Sincan, to see a patient -- because I'm a physician -- hoping that I could give a patient, perhaps for a minute or two, a patient in the terminal period, a pep talk. An MP, a paralegal, goes to visit a patient who's a doctor, who's a patient, who's almost all a republic, and the prison administration is helpless, bedridden, unable to meet its needs, and it's his duty to take the right to hold the hand of a patient from a doctor, a congressman, and to gaspate, no matter what. That's the kind of understanding we're dealing with. Now, if we, Irfan Eskibağ, were there to visit our friend who died today and hold his hand, would this country be divided? Let's put aside the insensitivity you've shown about prisons so far, but if you'd only shown the virtue of making a decision to encourage a patient, would something have gone away in this country? It is not possible for the government to rule a country with such a hardened conscience, a blind, deaf understanding. There are now 122 serious patients waiting in prison. 108...... and 50..... they could die at any moment, every minute, within the hour we've been talking about them. The total number of patients is 411. Despite how many years this government has been in power -- 411 patients about the prisoner -- has not been able to get these people out of some bureaucratic nonsense and recently make a legal arrangement that allows them to spend their treatments with their families. While the law on defence is being discussed in the main language, both the Justice Department and the government officials have come forward and made an arrangement regarding the sick prisoners. We will bring the sick prisoners back to their families and release them. They have preached. That's a lie. In the arrangement there, all of these bureaucratic procedures were subjected to more strainers. While we were being discussed here, we said that there are university hospitals in this country, hospitals in the Ministry of Health, full-fledged health institutions. If the government in this country can't trust its own hospital, what will it trust? Consider the medical reports from full-fledged hospitals sufficient, like forensics on these patients, by bypassing an institution that turns prisons into graveyards, sends people to their deaths in each practice, at least reduce that drama a little bit. Even if the Medical Examiner's Office reports in our arrangement, you have provided the prosecutor's condition to report to this imprisoned or convicted community. And even if he did, you've brought the Department of Justice's consent. And because of that, there are dramas every day in prison about our sick, imprisoned friends. Look, when I went to Sincan Prison last year, Burhan Kartal was taken from Erzurum Prison to Sincan. He's still a patient bleeding from the angio site. This patient is sent to Sincan Prison for treatment. The conditions are better in Ankara. This patient is being forced to search naked while being taken to Sincan Prison. It's not enough that he's ill, he's being humiliated. We're going to search you naked. They say he's being tortured for hours by a team of torturers who called him "A" because of his health condition. This patient, bleeding angio, is being subjected to torture. Imagine, he was brought here from Erzurum for treatment, and when we met, there were bruises, echimozes, hematomas all over the patient. Now, is it possible to accept such a situation, such an application? That is the true agenda of the people. Here's a list in front of me. There's a list from lung cancer to throat cancer, from blood cancer to TB to consumption, from muscle disease to patients with severe brain problems who can't remember that they don't eat, even if they don't eat for months. That's a shame, that list is yours. We've lost Irfan Eskibağ tonight, we've lost tonight, but now I'm calling on your consciences to take the blame. In particular, we expect the Justice Department to immediately remove the current obstacles in this matter and arrange for the release of these sick prisoners to be released, and our people are waiting for it. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0182par0213	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The last speaker on the group proposal is Mr. Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0183par0216	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, it's the power's job to run the House, but it's not the right thing to do slave labor, unfortunately, to look at lawmakers, especially members of Parliament here as slaves. Even this is the clearest indication of how the AKP government looks at the worker, the worker. Dear friends, I'd like to start by making a point. I'd like to make a reminder to opposition parties who have left power and criticised the main opposition party instead of criticizing the ruling party -- forgetting that there is a opposition party. Since the day we were elected, we have visited more than 50 prisons -- close to 110 -- together with our Manisa MP, Free Special, Muğla MP Nurettin Demir. We went to everyone without separating them, without separating them. Look, in Bakırköy Prison, the party that visited and brought them up to date is the Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party, which did not see two eyes, and whose only wish is a slippery slipper, is the Republican People's Party, who was elected a MP from Urbana, who was wrongfully held in the prison of Uruguay during the fire. I'd like to remind you that we've visited everyone with no distinction. But the trick... there's no such thing anywhere in the world... where opposition is opposed, my friends. There is no opposition by opposition to opposition. The power is here, the AKP is here, if you're going to oppose it. Here is the government that has ruled the country for 12 years, turned prisons into houses of persecution, tortured them without separation, ignored them, and allowed the rape of children in Posanti.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0184par0219	We also criticize power, Mr. Veli.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0183par0220	For that reason, I'd like to remind the group's vice presidents and party presidents at group meetings.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0184par0221	We'll criticize anyone who insists on war, so just relax about it. We'll criticize whoever wants war.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0183par0222	For the first time, Mr. President, for the first time in this House, there has been a report of a prisoner. And I'm bringing this to your attention, so I'm reminding you, as a member of parliament, as a member of parliament who's worked on it. Dear friends, on May 1st, last week, I condemn the terror that took place in Salam. I condemn those who attack the workers, with TOMA, with gas bombs, with workers, who will take it out and pay the price. After a year and a half of fighting for rights, we have fought against those who broke the 17-year-old daughter of the textile worker's head with a gas bomb, one of the unassigned teachers who injured her with a gas bomb, the Republican People's Party, the unions, the workers and many other citizens who had caused her to be taken to the hospital. Dear friends, it's clear what the governor of Istanbul did. What do they call it? What do you mean, working toward the Fuhrer? The governor says, "I'll act like this, I'll break the heads of these demonstrators, I'll gas them, I'll stick them, I'll silence them, I'll arrest them, because that's what my Führer would want me to do." His thoughts, his ideas, require me to do so. He says. Here, this is working towards the Führer. So the Fuhrer's regime is such a regime that all bureaucrats, businessmen, follow the example of the Führer, try to be good for him. How? Dear nationals, your journalism is called by the Führer. The media bosses go and fire the journalists. You want a sample? Until yesterday, he called Hasan Cemal, Can Dündar, Nuray Mert, Uğur Dündar. Now, in the new era, the journalists of the Führer also appeared. Their job is to confirm everything the Prime Minister, the Führer, has done, to establish a basis for it. The Führer says you're a journalist. Those who work in opposition media are arrested and sent to prison. Turkey's most influential journalists are thrown into prison and tried only because they are journalists. You want a sample? Mustafa Balbay, Soner Yalçın, Ahmet Şık, Hikmet Cicek. The Führer has nothing to do with being a student. He says, 5,000 cops and ODTI are busted, students' heads are broken. The Führer says that they have nothing to do with students. He says that the school administrators -- in the nail -- the rectors open disciplinary investigations for students, the rectors kick students out of prison without a trial. You want a sample? Diyarbakır Dicle University. You want a sample? Ankara University. You want a sample? Hacettepe University. Dear friends, they are not unionists. They say, bureaucrats go to gas unionists, send them to prison, and in this period Turkey becomes a prison where the biggest unionists of Turkey are in prison. To those who exercise their democratic rights, the Führer says, "It is not clear whether she is a woman or a girl." He says, "The police go and intervene, break that woman's hip, and there will be no investigation into the person who broke her hip." That's what it's like to work for the Führer, to be a bureaucrat of the Fuhrer's regime. Dear MPs, the Führer says, "Don't let the police in the provinces, the governors disregard the Constitution, prevent people from going to action by taking away their freedoms of travel." Just last year, we had 4+4+4 teachers who wanted to protest a law supported by all parties outside the Republican People's Party were not allowed out of the provinces, some were searched for body bags on the bus, some were searched for Ataturk's picture, Turkish Bayrak's, and the ones who arrived, unfortunately, were tried to be clubbed and gassed in the square of Kızılay. Dear MPs, there are bureaucrats, journalists, businessmen and executives working towards the Führer in our country today, unfortunately there are politicians. They're building a mindset. And here we are fighting against this mentality, the lawmakers who believe in democracy, who advocate democracy, who advocate human rights under any circumstances. Dear friends, the Governor says: "Is there action on the side of the plane?" See, just yesterday, Sunday evening, he celebrated thousands of fans of Galatasaray, wearing yellow jerseys. Have you ever heard of a man falling into a pit? Have you ever heard of people falling into a pit? No. So, who fell into those pits you're using as an excuse? In those pits, dear friends, the governor of Istanbul fell, power fell in those pits, so-called journalists who supported these bans fell, and wrote about these prohibitions. Dear friends, at first you used the pit as an excuse, but now the Prime Minister has made a new big challenge and said that the show will no longer be allowed to take place. Real intent has been revealed. Just last week, you were banning it just this year. We were saying that this was an eternal ban on the Zodiac. There's now a new square of 1 million people in Yenikapi. Dear friends, on the shore of the sea, for a million people, where no one can escape, everyone can be filmed, the opponents will automatically be subjected to the tag system. It's even a space for individual or total gassing. Dear friends, intentions are clear, intentions are clear, the Führer, who has appointed everything, is now trying to determine where the opposition will act and where the opposition will take place. Maybe you haven't thought about what we should call that square. We've thought about it. In my opinion, my esteemed deputies, let the neighborhood be called the new pepper, and let the square be called the gas fountain. Thus the good children go to Kazlishmah, and the bad children to the gas fountain. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I've said so many times from this bench, the neck has passed, the Kenan universe is proud of you. The Kenan universe is proud of you. Dear friends, why is he so proud? Look, I want to illustrate from ourselves the point of democracy in Turkey. Me and my friends, Mr. Free Special, Nurettin Demir, we are exemplary parliamentarians all over the world. Why? We are the most arrested MPs in the world, and we have no precedent in the world's parliaments. We're the most arrested journalists in the world. We're the most imprisoned lawmakers in the world. We -- unfortunately, we got that title last month -- we're the MPs who visited the most arrested unionists in the world, and we're the most arrested politicians in the world. The situation in Turkey can be measured by the number of records we've broken. I thank you, all of you, for listening to me.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0185par0238	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0240	When he gave his speech, the Fuhrer meant something called the Führer. I'm guessing that's what he said to the AK PARTY group. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer that question.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0185par0241	Yes, Mr. President. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0246	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I believe, expressed to the Justice and Development Party Group, returned to state that the Fuhrer was the Führer. As far as we know, the president of the German Nazi Party is a promise used by German Prime Minister Hitler. In Italy, the head of the fascists is called the Duce, and Germany is called the Fuhrer. But there is no philosophy, there is no leadership, there is no leadership in faith. We have only one president, who, by the will of the nation, is the president of the AK PARTI, who rose higher and higher each time with a 50 per cent vote in the chest. It's what the dervishe thinks. They call it. When he studied his history, he lived with the Führers, he lived with the leaders, he grew up with the Duces...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0187par0248	National Chiefs, National Chiefs...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0249	...as a representative of a political party who praised the Fuhrers, Hitler, criticised today's practices, nothing more than the epiphany of his past consciousness. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, it means "tortures." The only party in this country that has ever fought torture is the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0188par0252	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0253	So far, in day care...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0188par0254	In prisons, in prisons...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0255	...the only party that makes legal arrangements for child abuse elsewhere is the Justice and Development Party. When the May 1 massacre took place in 1977...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0188par0256	There's torture in the crumpled prison! Naked search, naked search!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0257	Thirty years and one May massacre, the Zodiac Square, which never opened to workers and destroyed Labor Day.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0188par0258	The working class took that right apart!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0259	It is the Justice and Development Party that makes the Day of Labor and Solidarity.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0188par0260	Your Führer didn't get that right just because he gave it to you!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0261	The fascist of September 12th is the Justice and Development Party, who removed the 15th article to judge the coup d'état of September 12th, Kenan Evren. But you voted for the constitutional amendment.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0188par0263	You didn't do him any favors.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0186par0264	No, you're the one giving the vote. Kenan, who's the universe with?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0189par0266	The voter's here, 95% is here!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0188par0267	95% here, 95%!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0190par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0191par0269	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0192par0270	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0193par0271	One of the prime minister's crates came out, "No." I've filed a question motion, and he's not responding.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0192par0272	Please, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0193par0273	The prime minister and his wife voted in a polling box, and one of them gave it to him.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0192par0274	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0194par0275	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş, the speaker, has made some assessments of the Republican People's Party's history and has made some accusations against the Republican People's Party Group. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0192par0276	Here you go, sir. No more teasing, please. You guys pack it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0195par0280	Mr. President, in our history, in the history of the Republican People's Party, even until the Justice and Development Party government, until Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, no prime minister has decided on how many levels of construction will be in his administration until he becomes Prime Minister. No prime minister, Süleymaniye, Sultanahmet, is involved in how many times the skyscraper will be placed between the Ayasofia minarets. No prime minister has sacrificed those mosques, that extraordinary image in Ranta.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0196par0281	The location of the third bridge...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0195par0282	No prime minister has ever had the courage to interfere with a statue planted in East Anatolia, KarsESTa, or any other province. No prime minister had the courage to build a shopping mall instead of a Gunner's Barrack in Tirana. Your eleven years of history is a date of pollution. You've just opened two years for the May 1st demonstrations...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0196par0283	Herpes out, herpes out!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0195par0284	...then you're uncomfortable with it because there's no democracy in your culture, there's no freedom. The right to meetings and demonstration walks, according to the European Court of Human Rights rulings, also gives it to those who claim the right to set up a place, who have the right to do so. The historical significance of May 1st and the fact that the site of a massacre took place on May 1, 1977, gives the demonstrators the right to celebrate May 1st, the European Court of Human Rights rulings say so. You're acting against international law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because you don't have a sense of government in favor of freedom. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0197par0289	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0198par0290	No prime minister has ever won seven elections in a row.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0199par0291	Mr. President, I don't want to prolong the discussion.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0200par0292	He's going to add, and instead of the third bridge, the Prime Minister has decided to remind him.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0201par0293	Wait a second...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0199par0294	Mr. President, if you could silence the parasite, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0201par0295	Please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0199par0296	Mr. President, I don't want to make a big deal out of this...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0202par0297	You'll get hurt.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0203par0298	No, we can make it bigger.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0199par0299	...but Mr. Hamzacebi spoke, and your history is full of pollution. He used such an expression. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0204par0300	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0205par0302	Who is writing the screenplay of this wonderful Century?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0199par0304	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the AK PARTY has been in power for ten years. The AK PARTY returned revenues from the profits, sweats, like this nation's mother's milk, again, as a service to the nation. Look, simple examples: the double road in the history of the Republic in seventy-nine years is 6,100 kilometers, the double roads in the ten-year period of the AK PARTY are 17,000 kilometers. Seven duvets of foreign cars, no local cars. The ministers who were imported from outside the IMF because they couldn't find a source at the door of the IMF will cut off all ties with the IMF after three days before the EC PARTI power, but after seven days, Turkey, which lends money to the IMF, is under the AK PARTI rule. For God's sake, can you imagine? You've paid off IMF, you've lent 100 times as much elsewhere. If there's corruption in this country, if there's theft in this country, if there's a pursuer in this country...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0206par0310	You're playing the single again. You know this song. It's always the same song...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0199par0311	Free, interference, free... interference, interference. If there was theft in this country, if there was corruption, how would he be able to lend money to the IMF? You're paying the debt by debt, Mr. Elitaş. In 80 years, the issues of this country have been discussed with simple issues, while the Fuhrers, Duceler, leaders and Istrillal Courts tried to destroy the values of this country, while the EC PARTI period began to deal with coups and coups.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0207par0315	Special jurisdictional courts have been established. You're doing a civilian coup, you don't just have epaulets. I repeat: The Constitutional amendment proposal for the 15th Amendment of the Constitution will be eliminated, and from here, the Kenan Universe would not have been able to defend as you did. So, if you look at the Kenan universe, Mr. Agha, who is a companion, who is a friend, and who is a brother, then you will see it clearly and clearly. Kenan was going to lie down and pray to you, but the AK PARTY MPs, sensitive, conscious lawmakers, and 58 percent voted yes to the trial of Canaan's Universe, and he was saved from a dirty history, a dirty past. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 98% voted, though.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0208par0320	The Justice and Development Party is unclean. It will only keep the dirt in its own hands. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0209par0323	Mr. Elitaş explained in his speech the opposite of the policy we followed in Parliament regarding the interim Article 15 of the Constitution, which he described in a different way the policy our group followed at the time. That's why I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0210par0324	Let's do it for a minute this time. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0209par0326	But, Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0210par0327	But it can't go on like this, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0211par0328	Just a minute to explain that.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0209par0329	Mr. President, two minutes...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0210par0330	So, how far do we go, Mr. Hamzacebi, on the other side for two minutes?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0212par0331	Mr. President, there's no negotiation. Whatever you say happens.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0209par0332	We'll do what's required of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0210par0333	But it's good, I mean, there's no end to it, and we've gotten into things that have nothing to do with it. Please, let's finish.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0209par0335	Mr. President, it is the recommendation of the Republican People's Party that the Constitution's Article 15 shall be removed from the protection of those who carried out the coup of September 12th. Let's find out first. Secondly, the Republican People's Party has proposed an additional clause, with the idea that only the removal of that clause would not be sufficient to ensure the trial of those who carried out the coup on September 12th, and the additional clause proposal has been rejected by the votes of the Justice and Development Party. Secondly, yes, in a few days, Turkey's debt to the IMF will end, and the AKP government will pay the final installment of the $10 billion debt from the IMF in 2005, so you will have ended your debt. If there's anything to brag about, be proud of.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0213par0339	Please don't jinx it, work it, it'll be yours.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0214par0340	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0215par0341	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0214par0342	Baluken, you're welcome, so let's just leave it here, please. Justice and Development...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0215par0344	Mr. President, I asked for your word and you didn't answer.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0214par0345	Sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0216par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0217par0347	Mr. President, promise me after the vote.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0218par0348	Mr. President, we didn't answer. We made a promise, Your Honor, when we spoke.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0219par0349	Yes, come in, you asked for a word earlier, over.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0217par0350	Mr. President, the General Assembly is at 20. It'll close at 00, so when you vote, promise your precious MPs.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0219par0351	He asked for a word earlier, Mr. President, later.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0220par0352	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has also been taunting me with my name.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0219par0353	Please answer with a name... please take your seat. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0221par0356	Mr. President, the CHP MP friend said while speaking here, the opposition party is only critical of the main opposition, not critical of the ruling party. Now, we don't, of course, take criticism for granted to the Prime Minister. If you are curious about our criticism of the EC PARTY, look at the streets, the squares, the dungeons, the graveyards. The Peace and Democracy Party has paid the full cost of producing politics at the point of defeating the policies of the EC PARTI. However, your position, unfortunately, is far behind the position of the ruling party, the AK PARTY, regarding a 90-year-old problem we are in today. Thanks to the AK PARTY, he carried out all the war policies you've been talking about. Military operations, political operations, isolation, he did all of this in the most violent way, but when he saw that it couldn't be done, he came to the debate and dialogue. Now, if you still insist on war, if you miss negotiation and dialogue, then we'll criticize it. When the bones come out in Lach Creek, in my class, we criticize no one who is in power at that time; if the Sea Travelers are executed, if more MPs are out here than there are in the number of chairs, then we criticize them for responsibility. Let me tell you about the massacres at the village of Teatepe and the village of Guev in my own constituency: In 1925, we will criticize anyone who owns the policies of which seven to 70, 80 people were stuffed into stables and houses and burned alive.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0222par0359	Our common history, brother, is that he's your MP's grandfather, then he's in Parliament.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0221par0360	From our point of view, whoever's running the process of politics for our people is the priority of playing a constructive role in it, but whoever's doing it wrong, it's up to us to criticize the opposition without looking at power. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0223par0362	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0224par0363	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0223par0364	Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0224par0365	The comrades of the Kenan Universe. This is an unacceptable accusation for me, and I have to answer. Mr. Elitas is a comrade of the People's People. He said, "I have to answer to him."
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0223par0366	And you said, "He's an ally of the Kenan Universe."
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0225par0367	You promised him!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0223par0368	Will you shut up for a minute, please! Here, whatever you have to say in a minute...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0226par0370	Mr. President, vote and we'll talk till morning!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0223par0371	We'll take a vote... Mr. Agha, please, if it can happen in a minute...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0227par0374	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, look at this picture, who is the comrade of the Kenan universe? Look, Kenan says, "Do you have any instructions, Mr. Prime Minister, by blowing cigars into the face of the Prime Minister here, in the hand of the Universe?"
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0228par0375	How are the buttons, the buttons?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0227par0376	Buttons, three buttons buttoned. Here, if you want to see, this is the Prime Minister's picture. Mr. Prime Minister, the Kenan universe smokes cigars, smokes cigars in its mouth. This is the Prime Minister, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0229par0377	That was then!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0227par0378	Now, I'm giving you some numbers, and I'm saying that there are 31 journalists arrested on September 12th, now 72 journalists. Before that, dear friends, 31 journalists inside... Look, look at the applications... he said the script of the Great Century series, the soft drink of the people -- for example -- the national vegetable, the national artist, it's going to spread, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, It's all true-- there's a Prime Minister who decides everything. The Prime Minister who elected the President, the Prime Minister who elected the MPs, the Prime Minister who elected you... There were five of the Kenan Universe, one of the Prime Minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, friends...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0230par0383	Show it to the ministers, show it to the ministers!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0227par0384	Yes, I'll show the ministers here, so that's it! Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit04spe0231par0387	Mr. Agha, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Justice and Development Party, I submit the group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I'm taking a break until 8:30.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit05spe0231par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/666) I request and request that the Act be taken under Article 37 of the Civil Code, which shall be taken directly into the agenda of my Proposal for Amendments in the Two Articles of the Act and the Law of Equality. 2/5/2013 Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu I promise Mr Mehmet Siam Kesimoglu. Mr. Kesimoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit05spe0232par0013	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on 3 June 2012 to the motion that the law proposal, which I submitted with the number (2/666), be discussed directly in the General Assembly according to Article 37 of our Interior Charter. I hereby salute you on behalf of myself and my group. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, like my friends on this stand today, I would like to remember themselves with respect, love, and gratitude on the day of the tribute of the three saplings who were living for Turkey in the prime of their lives, full independent Turkey. One thing I would like to share again at the beginning of my words: on May 1st, I would like to say that in the feast of labor, the members of the military and militants of Istanbul, whose head has been cut off and threatened to lose their sight, and who are in intensive care, and who have been judged by the governor of Istanbul, Mr. Happy. I hereby offer my condolences to the families of those who have already died from pepper spray. Dear MPs, as you know, our law enforcement officer has the power to use force due to law enforcement. This power of force is also gradual, a force of physical strength, material power, and ultimately the use of weapons. That's the point, but I'd like to express that I'm deeply sorry to see pepper spray being used everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to show you some pictures. These images were taken on May 1st in the Zombie Square, not a photo of the representative enemy forces on a liberation holiday. Photos of pepper spray against workers who are trying to survive with their hard work and who want to exercise their democratic rights. I'd like to share another photo with you. Look, here we have law enforcement police, citizens, workers -- our own workers -- spraying pepper spray from three feet away from our citizens; they spray pepper spray on their heads, their eyes. Congressmans, these aren't deodorants or perfumes, these are weapons, chemical weapons, lethal weapons. Look, there's a lot of good press out there, too. They're trying to operate in a 250-dollar gas mask to avoid the effects of pepper spray. Another image is that we can only see one of our citizens inside the pepper spray, and I especially want to share in 2004 -- look, I didn't get that close -- it's falling apart -- it's a pepper spray in the eyes of our citizen, it's a prize-winning photograph. This is a photo of Dilan Alpine, who is still in intensive care today, using pepper spray from very close distance by the police. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this offer I made today, it's an offer to make sure that these scenes never happen again. My suggestion is very simple: a slight change in police duty and the Law of Legacy. As I have just stated, the second stage of force enforcement is a law proposal for the use of tear gas, or rather tear gas and dust in the law, to be removed from this material power phase and brought to the stage where the weapon is used. To narrow down the usage conditions, narrow down the use area, equalize it with the use of weapons. We experienced these things in the taxi, and even our fellow deputies themselves experienced them. These are shameful for democracy, for Turkish democracy. Come, all of you, support this proposal of the law, and we will free Turkey from this disgrace of democracy together. A 17-year-old high school student, Dilan Alps, just showed it to me. 27-year-old unassigned teacher, Meral doesn't come back. These images...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit05spe0233par0023	Yes, your time is up, sir. Thank you, Mr. Kesimoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Mr. Recep Gürkan of Edirne. Mr. Gürkan, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit05spe0234par0029	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Law Proposal (2/666) under Article 37 of the Civil Code. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, Turkish democracy, Constitution, human rights and freedoms, and above all, humanity suffered major injuries in Istanbul on May 1st. Turkey, which is increasingly trying to be transformed into a single man's regime and police state, spent two days in a coma, seven injured, hundreds of prisoners and hundreds of detained workers, students, politicians, on May 1st, celebrated by the world's festivities. The government and Prime Minister, the prime minister's governors, unfortunately turned our country into a place of fire on May 1st. Police violence, disproportionate power against our workers, trade unionists, has once again led Turkey to the highest ranking of democracies in Turkey, which has been one of the iconic sites since the May 1st massacre in 1977. A young girl and a high school girl, a teacher candidate, are still in a coma when the police hit the gas bombs, and they're still trying to survive the danger. Turkey has declined further in the 2013 World Press Freedom Report of Freedom House, an independent civil society organisation that the world expects every year to assess freedom of expression. The AKP remains silent over our proposals on the expansion of freedom of thought and expression, the selection of restrictive laws on this issue. Finally, Freedom House's report on Freedom House's Freedom of the Press Report has fallen behind the worrying and embarrassing, almost most reactionary dictatorships on our country's behalf. Last year, Turkey ranked 117 puts 55 points in its 2012 report, while this year, with 56 points, it shared the ranking with Congo, Fiji, Liberia and Seychelles. In the 2011 report, Turkey was ranked again as 117, with 54 points. In the report, Turkey is in the class of "partially free" countries. It's humiliating, humiliating, for our people, for our country, for our democracy. Unfortunately, however, the government's shame does not have such concerns. Turkey doesn't deserve this, precious MPs. To be seen like this in the world, to be perceived like this, is a great loss to our country. Turkey is described as "the country that imprisoned the most journalists in the world." According to the report, the threat of arrest is considered a worrying point when journalists in Turkey restrict their ability to act freely and do business. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has imported $229,000 in the last 12 years -- about 40 million TL -- 628 tonnes of pepper gas and tear spray. As soon as the AKP lawmakers give you numbers according to the years, I'll give you a number: just 13 tons in 2001, before AKP power. 615 tons of this 628 ton belong to your power, the work of your power. Despite all the question proposals, the AKP government does not explain who made the import of pepper gas on the grounds of the secret. Although the government says pepper spray is toxic and not cause of death, health organisations in Turkey and the world say otherwise. Pepper kills gas, and it really affects human health. On the one hand, the gas itself, the core of that gas, the part we call the hive, whichever happens to be your destiny, we don't know if the gas comes or the hive comes. With the provisions included in this bill, the freedom of thought, demonstration and organization would have been used to buy shoes for the feet of our barefoot children who went to elementary school, not for $40 trillion, or $40 million, of deadly and dangerous pepper spray from the public's taxes, but perhaps to overcome poverty. Support this proposal of the law. We also know that the AKP Group will not support it. Let no one forget that the wrongdoers will one day be subjected to the greatest atrocities. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit05spe0235par0047	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit05spe0236par0048	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit05spe0235par0049	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0235par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to Article 37 of the Interior Charter, the decision was not reached in sufficient number of votes in the vote of the proposal to be taken directly into consideration. Now, I'm going to re-vote the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions: those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. (x) Verbal question motions are not read in the General Assembly and are added to the report. 26-Izmir MP Rahmi Türeli (Türeli of Love), a verbal question motion for payments made from the Unemployment Insurance Fund (6/2034) and the answer of Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz (Cevdet Yılmaz) 27-Izmir MP Rahmi İzmir İşleli Çelelı, an oral request for national income calculations (6/2035) and Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the presentations section, I would like to call Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, Minister of Development, to the stand to answer the oral questions he wants to answer together. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0237par0062	Mr. President, I'm here to answer the verbal question motions directed by our esteemed deputies. On this occasion, I salute you all. Actually, there are 52 questions. Most of these have already been answered in writing. When we think of the balance of 60 minutes and 52 questions, I will try to answer 52 questions by summing up these answers as quickly as possible. First of all, I'd like to answer the number-one question directed by Ardahan MP Ensar Öğümul (6/80). Ardahan Province, Posof County raised a question about the bridge needed for the access road to Kaleönu village. Here, the project has been completed and opened as part of the SOCS. Posof district Çakırkoc village has also been resolved under the regulations concerning the sewage problem and since there is no sewage treatment facility in the village, there is no such thing as a ferrid septic treatment facility. (6/2079) I would like to say this, once again, when we look at the fundamental number-one question proposal, directed by Mr. Ensar Öğün, which includes a major issue of Van (e.g. Van), which includes preventing migration in Van (a.g. Van), deviant urbanization, earthquake-resistant housing, I'd like to say this. We've sent a very detailed written response to this, but I'd just like to stress that today, after the earthquake, Van is a city with an increased population, many infrastructure issues have been resolved and quickly recovered. There's a population above the earthquake. So I can safely say that we reversed the migration. As part of SDUAP, we do the infrastructure of municipalities. The DSI, again, is running his project on drinking water. We run EU-sponsored projects in Ercis City. Again, Van Ergil II. Welcome Watering Project, Ercish Pay Watering Project in progress. Our numerous road projects, our double road projects, are back in our Van region, complete or built. We're implementing SODES, our social support projects. In the past three years alone, we have implemented 222 projects with $31.4 million. We've also done special projects in response to the earthquake. Again, we support several development projects through our East Anatolian Development Agency, which includes the provinces of Van, Bitlis, Hakakari and Mush. We also apply vocational courses and community-fund work programs with the ISCUR channel. We also built tens of thousands of dwellings on the AFAD channel very quickly and presented them to the service of our Van people, our people. Again, 6/2833 is the main question, Mr. Reşat Right, directed by the slap MP. This, in fact, was given a written answer. Before I go into detail, all I can say is that we've got a slap in the ass, and we've got an immigration province as well as an migration. In 2011, it refers to a population of 608,299 people. Here, especially in the case of unemployment, we find that Turkey has a lower unemployment rate than its average, with TİK studies. And yet, in our Tokat province, we're still, very strongly implementing our active workforce programs, and thousands of people have been involved in it. We've also earmarked significant resources for public investments, in 2013 alone, and only when we look at projects that we can distinguish. Because some projects are global projects, and we can't separate them from the county. When we look at the projects we can separate, there's a total stockpile of $1.3 billion in the province of Tokat. The cumulative spending is 485 million and the 2013 grant is about 74 million. We run a lot of projects. As part of the incentive, however, our Tokat province is taking advantage of the fifth region's incentives, which also includes our support for our slap province by our Central Black Sea Development Agency (OKA). The main question of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1149) is a question of the needs of disabled citizens, such as orthesis, prosthetics and wheelchairs. First, I'd like to say that we're trying to meet the requirements of the social state by conducting services for disabled citizens from a right-axis perspective. In this regard, we provide extensive support for the maintenance of wheelchair needs of disabled citizens. However, campaigns can be organised by various NGOs. These are not negative issues, but they certainly show the sensitivity of NGOs in these matters. But I'd like to point out in particular that as a government, we're doing our part. We also provide these requirements under the SGK, the green card and the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund, as stated in the written answer, depending on the position of our contact. Also, there may be a difference or contribution to prices or over prices in orthotypes and prosthetics, but we've also arranged the exceptions by law. Business accidents, occupational diseases, military exercises and maneuvers, war disability, monthly areas under the fight against terrorism (TK) are the exceptions to duty disability. I can also say to Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's question under the law of disabled persons in the municipalities, in the main number 6/1986), in institutions and organizations: You know that in Articles No. 5378, in Articles 2/7, and in Articles 3/3, the declaration of the Law has been raised for the last eight years. There has been an additional year of fulfilling obligations in this regard. Of course, we expect the precision, precision of all our local governments. In addition, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/2653) has a fundamental question regarding the obligation to employ one elderly care worker for every 10 elderly persons in the nursing home according to the Nursing Home's Old Nursing Centre regulations. I can also say that as of January 2003, there are 167 private nursing homes capable of 9.840, where 6,876 are still under care. This provides about 855 maintenance staff for our elderly. When we measure it, it's 12.4 per cent, but we expect you to deliver it to our Ministry if there's any fertility, any abuse anywhere, any other application. On the other hand, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash (6/182) is the main motion for the implementation of HAK-İsti's new policies, which create jobs, develop entrepreneurial education and life-long learning. In this particular regard, I would like to point out that our government has put employment into the focus of all its policies, and we're really considering employment as an element of all our policies, both economic growth and active labour force programmes, other policies, regional policy, and social policy. We've announced four separate employment packages starting in 2008, we've brought various premium reductions and incentives, we've reduced burdens on employment, we've increased unemployment allowance, and we've made short labour allowances, we've made important arrangements for the employment of women, disabled and young people, and we've also made important arrangements for the employment of RD personnel. More detailed information can also be expressed in writing. We're actually seeing a success here, and it's understandable from the results. From the point where the crisis pixes in 2009, we see over 4 million jobs increase. The turnout to the labour force: we're detecting unemployment decreases as employment rates rise, and there's a unemployment reduction of 14% to 9%. In the global climate, unemployment increases in many countries, while unemployment increases, while unemployment increases, Turkey has achieved a huge success in this area. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, our deputy in Kahramanmarash, has a fundamental question regarding the purposeful use of the unemployment benefit Fund (6/1188). The main thing for us here, of course, is to use this fund in accordance with the law's purpose. And when you look at the law, just when people are out of work, give them resources. There's no law that says, on the other hand, do this, but on the other hand, essentially reduce unemployment, support active programs that are going to reduce unemployment, support investments, infrastructure that are going to reduce unemployment. And in this law, we have a law that says, well, we use our funds, and we see that our funds are actually increasing, and we see that our funds are growing, and we see that every year, too. The main thing here is to let people stay unemployed so that I can give them money. There shouldn't be any logic like this; the main thing is to see how we don't put people out of work, how do we find their way? Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1911) has a question that Mr. Kahramanmarash, our deputy, has led us to the main issue of minimum wage. Here, of course, we make these provisions in accordance with the provisions laid out in Articles 39 of the Constitution's 55th, 4857, and Article 39 of the Employment Law, and under the Asgarial Price Administration. When we look at the latest situation, there's an increase in the rate of 8.7 in 2013. Again, when we look at the minimum wage number, we see 4 million,972,590 insurance holders reporting to the Social Security Institution as of December 2012, from the bottom line of the original daily earnings, which is Article 510 of Article 4 of Law (a) on the basis of Article 31.35. It's, of course, the primary notification, it's not always possible to determine exactly what real salaries are. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1834) has a fundamental question: Why do the workers and officers' confederations and the poverty and poverty limit that TİİK has been explained don't match? We have given a comprehensive written answer to that. As a matter of fact, TİK calculates inflation rates using international concepts and methods. As an example of 2012, 444 products are compiling about 375,000 each month from 27,169 businesses and 4,176 dwellings, as part of 1,169 products. We also renew the basket every year according to the household budget survey. On the other hand, we're doing our poverty research again in international standards. Here, essentially, the concepts such as the standard definition of the international literature, the range of hunger, and the technical terms such as the limit of yoxulity, and the level of freedom, and the level of livelihood, are not the same, and sometimes they can be confused. These are the international standards that the TÜİK (TİK) calculates. So the results change naturally because the methodology, methodology, coverage and definitions change. But I would especially like to point out that ten years ago, when we calculated poverty, we were about 30 percent of the population with less than $4.3 per cent, with over 20 million in our population of 66 million in this sense, in our latest calculations, this is down to 2.8 per cent. We have a small number of poor people over two million in 76 million populations. Our goal, of course, is to eliminate this absolute poverty and, as all developed countries do, now fight only relative poverty and poverty based on an average. The main question of Heromarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/1762) is questions about our foreign ministry's contractal staff at the centre and abroad. The written answer has been given in detail. Our ministry on this issue is at a maximum level, along with ministries such as the Treasury and State Staff, making an effort to regulate these fees. That's what it says in the article. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu, the main question proposal of our deputy Kahramanmarash (6/1832) is on the agenda of the issue of visa abroad. In this regard, our government has agreed to a visa exemption agreement with several countries. We also have very intense negotiations with the European Union. The European Union, in fact, established the customs union in the 90s, and unfortunately, they were not properly sensitive in these matters, so today we continue to have problems with visas as well as with free trade agreements. Turkey has a very clear right to be here. Of course, it's not acceptable for you to go on visas to a community where you have a customs union, where you have full accession talks. Serious negotiations are being conducted to eliminate this, and studies are being carried out on re-enactment agreements. Hopefully, we'll get results in these issues in the coming period. We all have to work together. On the other hand, about individual complaints, our consulates are making initiatives with concerned countries. Again, the main question regarding the Syrian issue (6/2150), Mr. Denizahtin Karaahmetoglu, is that our Giresun MP has a question. There's a written answer here again. I just want to say in a nutshell that the Republic of Turkey is not the country that caused the problem here. It's the Syrian government that's causing the problem, fighting its own people, fighting its own people, turning weapons on its people instead of implementing a sense of universal standards, and bringing their people to face these great sufferings. In this regard, our country is exhibiting its historical stance. These moments are historical moments. Ten years and fifty years later, they will be returned to life again. Turkey is showing its primitive and human stance here.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0238par0092	Give me the right information, all the information you gave me is wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0237par0093	Our goal here is to establish a free and democratic system where the basic rights and freedoms of all Syrian citizens, regardless of ethnicity, religion and sects, are guaranteed on the basis of equality. Our policy is clear. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/775) has a primary question motion concerning Turkey importing fruits and vegetables. And I would like to stress in particular that we have implemented very effective policies with our Department of Agriculture on fruit and vegetables, and there have been significant developments. Turkey is one of the first places in the world in both the production and export of age fruit-substance. According to data, our country's amount of vegetable and fruit exports increased by 100 per cent in the last nine years from 1.6 million tons in 2002 to 3.2 million tons in 2011. Again, export value increased by 369 per cent in 2002 from $532m to $2.5 billion in 2011. These figures show that a very successful policy is being followed in our sectors. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, our Alderman of Kahramanmarash, has a question regarding the main number-one production of freshwater fish. Again, according to FAO data, we are the third fastest growing country in the world. That's a very positive development. In 2003, water products were first supported during our time, and during the past period, they were provided with very serious support. As a result, we have come to the fifth place in the production of water products from 25 European countries; I say as of 2010. We have risen to the 1st rank among EU countries in the production of trout. In addition, a study by GFCM-FAO says our country has reached a 25 per cent market in the European chip shop, the bass market. With this rapid development, we see this reflected in exports, and there are some really good numbers. Here again, 59 million fish were left by our Ministry of Agriculture from 2001 to 2011 to the total supply of 3,425 freshwater, including natural lakes, dam lakes, rivers and ponds across the country. The main question proposal for Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/954) raises a question about the production of nitrogen and phosphate minerals or chemical fertilizer. Dear lawmakers, the country's fertilizer production of 2 million 878 thousand in 2008 reached 3 million 749 thousand tonnes at the end of 2011, with a 30 per cent increase. Our imports of fertilizer were reduced by 25 per cent during 2009-2011, while our exports of fertilizer increased by 220,684 tonnes in 2009 to 543,242 tons in 2011 with an increase of 146 per cent. Fertilizer support was first paid directly to the farmer in 2005, with a total of $2 billion and $793m in fertilizer support in 2005-2011, with 15 per cent of our farmer's fertilizer costs covered with these benefits. Again, the main question of Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/1028) is about import meat and meat prices, and again about fish. Meat prices have been temporarily granted an import permit aimed at reducing consumers to appropriate levels of purchase power in order to balance rising prices in the domestic market. However, as the market develops in the desired direction, when the need is removed, imports are actually stopped, so there is no such problem at the moment. Again, our Fish Fish Association is performing a mission. You know, it's turned into the Meat and Milk Foundation, which, on the one hand, will deal with red meat and water products, and on the other hand, will deal with milk. Here we no longer see our Meat Fish Foundation as a commercial enterprise, but as an institution that has a market regulator role in the market, which maintains the balance between consumers and producers. Again, the main question proposal for Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/1183) is to bring up the issue of support for olive producers. While our country has changed over the years, it is ranked fourth in the world to produce table olives, olive oil, and olive oil. When we look at the support we provide in this regard, there are 30 cents/kilograms of oil from 2010, 50 cents/kilograms of payment for 2011. And for 2013 -- it hasn't come to life yet -- there's a 70p/kilogram study going on, and hopefully when the procedures are completed, it'll be done. So we provide a very serious support. You know, especially in the rules of the European Union, there are significant restrictive provisions in these matters, but Turkey has greatly strengthened its infrastructure in this area before becoming a member of the European Union. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, our Alderman of Kahramanmarash, has a motion to question the main number-one trafficking of nuts (6/1190). Here, when the food product, which has entered our country against the Law on Anti-Trafficking 5607, has been identified -- regardless of what product -- has been filed a criminal complaint against the republic's prosecutors. In this case, the country has not been detected in the 2010-2011 case of nut smuggling. Not only from Georgia, but from all neighbouring countries, anti-trafficking of all kinds of goods is effectively carried out by our Ministry of Customs and Trade at the border crossings to Turkey. On the other hand, in the main question motion (6/1180), again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, our Alderman of Kahramanmarash, brought up his work on cigarette smuggling. Again, effective studies are being carried out in the co-ordination of our relevant authorities. In an effort to increase the efficiency of the work, the 2011-2013 Anti-Smashing Action Plan against Tobacco and Tobacco Mamullers was published in the Official Gazette in 2010, and this action plan is being implemented effectively. Again, our Ministry of Customs and Trade deals effectively with methods such as X-ray scanning systems, baggage X-ray scanning systems, detector dogs, transit cigarettes and tobacco tracking systems. In connection with the seized products, the Law on Anti-Trafficking Law 5607 and the Organization for Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Number 4733 shall also be carried out under the Law on the Agency and its duties. Again, the number-one question motion for Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/1771) raises accidents in HES. AS HES construction increases, we see that there is indeed an increase in accidents. We also make every effort to deal with it in the most effective way. On the one hand, we've increased public control, on the other hand, of course, from contractors to employees, to construction supervisors, everyone has to be more sensitive about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I continue with our verbal question motions. Mr. Rahmi, when you looked at the main question motion for the Türeli of Love (6/2035), our congressman asked about our national income accounts for these production factors. We aim to update the subset on this issue with income by the end of 2013. We said we'd do it earlier in our written answer, but unfortunately, we can't do it at the exact moment we want to. In that sense, I'm updating our answer. By the end of 2013, we're trying to do these accounts as TİK. Again, there are questions about inflation calculations in the main question motion of our Kütahya MP, Mr. Alim Izwar (6/305). Here, of course, we sent a written reply with very detailed lists. As a matter of fact, inflation rates are run by the goods and services covered in baskets, and we put them in the crop and sent them to our valued congressman. The TUFE basket is determined based on the results of a continuous household budget survey with household households covered by products, and there is no problem with the non-result-resulting products that are frequently used and the constant prices are not covered. Again, the goods and services covered by baskets are evaluated each year as of December and are used in a current structure starting from the beginning of the next year. Inflation rates are calculated based on a realistic structure. However, as with any account, this account may have something to do with criticism. I always think it's good for us to argue about how to go further. Again, we gave a detailed reply to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/2793)'s original motion. This is again, in fact, the difference between the consolidation of workers and officers that I've tried to respond to before. As I've just stated, the method of accounting is different, the data source is different, the daily calorie needs account is different, the goods basket and prices are different, the way of calculating the actual household size is different, the way of calculating the non-food spending share for the access to the poverty limit is different, and naturally, because of all these differences, the results are different. Again, there's talk of pay indexes for officers. We see here that when we index net salaries, government officials' salaries... in 2003-2012, the cumulative inflation was 146.6%. In reality, there is a 46.6% increase in civil servants' salaries in these nine years. So we're finding that there's an increase in prosperity, about 50 percent, that there's a salary increase in inflation. There's only one section that's really cut down, valuable lawmakers, and that's high-level bureaucrats. Other than that, we see a real increase in salary in all segments. The number 6/2034 of Mr. Rahmi Love's Türeli, our İzmir MP, is being asked about unemployment grants. We've sent another detailed response here, but I'll tell you this: between 2002-12, 3 million 306,549 people applied for unemployment benefits, 2 million 604,670 people were entitled to the grant, and they were paid over 5 billion euros. Here, of course, there are also funds from the Unemployment Insurance Fund for investment and active labour market programmes. The amount of these resources is 10.8 billion. It's, of course, not just for GAP -- it's sometimes misunderstood -- for GAP, DAP, KOP, DOCAP, other regional programs and infrastructure programs. As a matter of fact, these were also used in our important investment projects, which provide a suitable investment environment. In the end, we see that we have a result. See, in June 2009, employment increased from 21 million to 947 thousand, to 25 million, 577 thousand in June 2012, to 3 million, 630,000 people. That means we've been able to implement these programs effectively. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğümün, our Ardahan MP, (6/2532) the main question motion has been addressed in development regarding the salary and pay differences of state officials in the primary areas. We sent a detailed reply. We have certain arrangements, but there can be further debates about them. At the moment, certain laws are subject to certain regulations. The main question motion for our Adana MP, Mr. Ali Halaman (6/1449) is on 4/C personnel working at TÜİK. In short, they have had significant improvements in their situation in recent years, and we are increasingly seeing this improvement in a better way. Again, Mr. Zuhal Topcu, the Ankara MP -- which we answered in writing on December 28, 2011 -- is intended for the employment of disabled personnel. We continue our work on this subject within the framework of the law. Again, the main question motion of our Ardahan MP, Ensar Öğüt (6/17): There was a question about the data preparation calendar. As announced in the data application calendar, on 25 April 2013, we published our health-related medical research. Our congressman asked about the date of this, and we've already published it. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2320) asked these villages if they were using SODES? Let me tell you something about SODES. In 2008-2012, we gave $674m to our Social Support Programme, and we supported 5,792 projects. We're also implementing projects in some districts, resorts, and villages. We organized 1,971 sports courses, and 117,862 students took advantage of them. We have established 3,337 cultural centers, neighborhood areas, playgrounds, sports centers, and in particular, 1,174,776 people have taken advantage of them in narrow-income areas. Again, nearly 2 million people participated in cultural arts and sports events. Hundreds of thousands of people were given sports clothes and supplies, limited resources. These are just some services that we did with SODES in 2008-2011. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/500) is asked about Ardahan investments in the main question motion. Again, a detailed reply was sent to this subject in writing. In this regard, we're making some really important investments in the province of Ardahan. Just by looking at his university, we can see how much support he has. A follow-up question motion is similar, and the main question motion (6/1640) is still asked about Ardahan investments. When you look here, we've provided support for 50 heads and higher livestock facilities under the DAP, about 3.6 million. Again, as part of the International Agriculture Development Fund (IFAD), we are implementing a project covering the provinces of Artvin, Kars and Ardahan. On the other hand, again, I just mentioned college. Look, our funding for Ardahan University in 2013 is $21,800,000, just for the university's one-year investment. In the past, again, there was a lack of natural gas and so forth. We've also earmarked $5 million in additional funding for him over the year. That's not included. In recent years, we've made significant investments again. Here, with our Serhat Development Agency, we support project supports, through ISKUR, the funds of our Ministry of Agriculture, through the KOSGEB channel, with all the different channels, we make efforts to develop and develop Ardahan. Again, there is the main question motion for Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri (6/2730) regarding the investments of Ankara province. We also make very important investments in Ankara. As of 2012, Ankara province investments combined with $12.2 billion -- 12.2 quadrillion in old money -- and about $3.6 billion in funding for these projects. In addition, when we take their projects within the various provinces, there is an allocation of funds over $7 billion, a total of projects, and an allocation over 1.1 billion. Real important projects are being conducted in Ankara province. We don't just look at Ankara as a capital, but as one of the key centers of our economy. In fact, in recent years, I've been closely monitoring organised industrial areas, business studies. We've established the Ankara Development Agency. And with our agency's network, we're providing various supports, and we're doing analysis because Ankara is also a huge economic power. We sent a list of Ankara province projects here in writing. As you can see, we can't read it one by one. We're doing a lot of projects. The main question motion of our Adana MP, Mr. Ali Halaman (6/1143) is to be asked about the investments in the province of Adana. In this regard, as part of the Ministry of Development's direct activities, we have only supported the Çukurova Development Agency for $36m in 2008-2011, and we have launched an investment of $98.5m by the end of 2011. These studies, of course, continued. These are the numbers as of the date we answered in writing. Also, we have prepared the Dukurova Regional Plan. We're working on a new one and a more qualified plan. We did the study on Nature Tourism in the Toros. We've prepared a Shoe Manufacturing Sectoral Research Report. We're investigating the immigration phenomenon in the Dukurova area. We're making the narcissist, the chemical sector, the energy, the logistics, the textile, the ready clothing, the incubation centers, again, with our various reports, our research. When you look at it, we've set aside a substantial amount of investments in our Adana region, and we'll continue to do so. On the other hand, we also apply our Social Support Programme, which we call SODES, in Adana. As part of SODES applications in 2011, we provided a 4 million-dollar support for 40 projects. It's a province that takes a lot of migration. We provide these supports in terms of enriching and improving your social life to the province of Adana. Let me tell you this: In a competition between these SODES projects, we had a project from Adana, which was the first one. Again, we've sent out a list of various project names. I don't want to count them one by one and take your time. Our Gaziantep MP, Mr. Mehmet Şeker (6/1953), is leading questions regarding the emblem and logo in the main question motion. We haven't made any significant expenses in these matters as the Ministry. A $19.711 payment, along with some other payments, is a total of 45,224 TL ministry. On the other hand, if I continue, Mr. Ismet Bünataman, we have been asked to be disabled in the first-ever oral motion of our Scholarship (6/3478) but I think we'll always say that the law is blocked. We placed 11 disabled personnel in our Ministry in March 2013, according to the results of the Poor Officer's Choice Exam. Two personnel have begun. They're starting the peyderpey, and others are still being assigned. As of now, we have three disabled staff available. (6/3483) The main number, again Mr. Ismet Bünataman, has a motion to ask about the appointment of our Minister-in-Chief. Let me tell you this: Mr. Mehmet Ceylan, our Deputy Minister, is a friend of ours who now has a very efficient working relationship with his education, with his experience in planning and planning the state, with a significant savings of mayoral leadership and two-term parliamentary parliamentary. We're also assigning assignments to the required areas. As minister, I can tell you here that you've taken a significant amount of our load. From international meetings to regional programmes, our Deputy Minister serves the Ministry on various issues. Again, Mr. Ismet Bünataman is being asked questions about the Ministry's staff in the number-one question motion, which is the main question of our Bursa MP (6/3159). In our ministry, a total of nine people have been appointed to exceptional staff, including one Chief of Staff, seven Ministry advisors and one Press Public Relations Advisor. The staff does not have personnel assigned to the office. Again, the Ministry of Development is being asked about the expenditures of Ismet Bünataman (6/3477) of the Ministry of Development on advertising and advertising activities related to the main question motion (6/3477). We can't spend any money on it in 2011-2013. Again, Mr. Ismet Büyükataman (6/3479) is the main question motion (6/3490), the main question motion (6/3490), and the main question motion (6/3492). To answer these in order, I can say to the main question motion (6/3479): Our rental from private individuals does not exist as the Ministry. (6/3490) In response to the main question motion: we did not renew the outside front in our ministry. We have other, disparaging, various other expenses, but we haven't done any external reconstruction. In response to the main question motion (6/3492), 20 vehicles were rented in our Ministry between 2011 and 2013. Again, our Ensar Öğüt MP, our Ardahan MP (6/3110) main question motion is to question projects launched to move to watery agriculture in the GAP region. We've got a lot of irrigation projects in the GAP area. Batman watering the left and right coast, Kinggirl-Dicle charm, Rocky, Kinggirl-Dicle I. and II. Hello, Suruç I. Merhale, Mardin-Ceylanpınar, Batman left coast, Kayacik Dam, again, the Cokali Dam, which is about to run out of plans at Adıyaman, the Bozova pump watering, again various works by the King's daughter-Dicle, the Mardin-Ceylanpınar plains watering, the Ceylanpe Dam, the Silvan Dam -- our second major irrigation dam, after the Adıyaman Dam, we have started it and worked rapidly -- again by TIEM -- and we are running more effective projects on mass irrigation, again -- and we are running a mass project of 2 million. Again, we're predicting two major measures so that mistakes don't be made in the past, so there's no salting, no wild irrigation: first of all, we're always using closed system projects in the field, we don't allow open systems; second of all, about farming education, again, our GAP Regional Administration and Agriculture Ministry, DSI, we're all implementing a new agricultural publishing model in our GAP region. We're doing a lot of research on organic agriculture, again, on livestock. Mr. Ensar Öğüt Τün, our Ardahan MP (6/3109) is the main question motion, which also refers to the unemployment fund's GAP. And I've just said, to other projects like the GAP or GAP that we've devoted to, not only the GAP, but maybe it's been symbolized in the press, but in essence, we've supported all regional programs and employment enhancement, investment development projects from these sources. Now, you know we don't use it in 2013 anymore. This was in question until 2012, and it's really been a success. Let's leave people unemployed and give them money. Instead of logic, let's give them more jobs. We've acted with logic. And we see that this logic has succeeded in recent years, over 4 million jobs across Turkey. In the GAP area, we see over 400,000 new jobs in the last five years. That's the kind of results we want. I suppose we'd all like that. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğüt, in Ardahan MP's main question motion (6/3107) there is a question like "Why does not the migration decline despite projects in the GAP?" or "Why doesn't the migration end?" As I just mentioned, we've had a very serious increase in employment, over 400,000. The unemployment rate, which was 17.4% -- 17.4% of unemployment in the GAP region in 2009 -- declined by 11.7 per cent in 2011. Once again, when we look at the rate of migration, the net migration rate of the GAP region, which was negative 7.6 per thousand in 2007, declined to minus 4.1 in 2011, so the migration is still continuing, but there is a serious decline in the rate of migration. Which means that our programs are actually successful. With the strengthening of peace, confidence in the coming period, with our incentive policies becoming more effective, hopefully, I sincerely believe that we will see the migration in contrast to this region. To this end, we run several irrigation projects, collection projects, other projects. You'll appreciate that we can't get into the details within this time limit. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğüt, the main question of our Ardahan MP (6/3331) is that income and institutional tax raise the issue of reduction in the region. In this regard, you know, we've set up six areas in our last incentive decree, and we've got some really important incentives in the 6th precinct, and we've already covered a significant portion of our eastern Anatolian provinces, including Ardahan, and we've been encouraging our 6th and most advanced provinces. In the income tax, we provide serious support for corporate tax, and, as I said, we've brought up some support that has never existed in the past during this period. Hopefully, these will become more effective. So far, when we look at the first three months, when we look at the eastern, Southeast provinces, or rather looking at the 6th districts, I'm talking about fixed capital investment in the first three months of 2013 -- I'm talking about incentive documents -- the private sector's fixed capital investment rate has increased by 199 per cent, about 200 per cent. Turkey's average has increased by 100 per cent, while our region's average has increased by 200 per cent. That, of course, will be reflected in the field in the coming period, and hopefully, not just with public investment, but with public investments, it's not possible to develop a region, it's meaningful if it's with the private sector. In the future, I sincerely believe that this will be much more accelerated and that our regions will become areas that are not burdening our country, but shouldering our country, that will become areas that contribute more to fulfilling our 2023 vision. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğüt. Ardahan MP (6/3120) has questions about our development agencies, SERKA, Serhat Development Agency. Here, our Serhat Development Agency conducted important work on its territory during the 2010-2013 period. He has devised a plan based on the axis of boosting the quality of life in the TRA2 Region, increasing efficiency and added value in agriculture and animalism, mobilisation of tourism potential, boosting competitiveness in businesses, and also implementing financial support programmes in order to implement them, while continuing their efforts to promote the region to attract the private sector. Agents aren't the institutions that have to do everything. We consider the agencies to be a bit of an information institution. Unfortunately, it's a bit public, only with grant programs, but for agencies, what we really think is a mission is that it analyzes its territory well, it generates information. We're in favor of an information-based development process. So the more analysis they do, the more work our agencies produce on the sectors of their area, their opportunities, their potential, the more they support the development process. From time to time, I say, let's make an example of ourselves. He who does not know his own soul will neither heal him nor improve him, but he who knows his own soul will rectify himself. It's the same with development. If you analyze a region well, if you know it well, you can improve it, improve it. We can't analyze the potential of all sides -- Turkey is a big country -- just by sitting in Ankara. There's got to be a mind in every part of us, and there's got to be structures around us that produce information. So that's the mission that we're really putting together in development agencies. Hopefully, in time, we will see the consequences better because Turkey is a country that has to develop quickly, and it has to do all of its regions, all of its development, inclusive development. We can't do that with the potential of a few provinces, with the energy of all our provinces, all of our regions, and we can bring 2023 to life. That's what we're really looking forward to from the development agencies. That's why I, frankly, care about the most qualified staff in the agencies. We've created a serious staff of specialists who understand the project, who speak languages, who can help investors, who can give perspective. Of course, that's not a specialty in a day. Maybe three years from now, five years from now, we'll see its fruit better in terms of expertise and knowledge. Our Ardahan MP, Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3119) is again concerned with SERKA. Here, again, our Serhat Development Agency is working on support programmes for the development of human capital. Let me also point out that some of the EU funds used to go back because we didn't have a good project. We've also given our development agencies this mission, build good projects, and draw these international funds to your region. We've said that they're doing really well, and our agencies are doing really well. Many of our agencies support the development process, not only with our funding, but also with international funds, by attracting the investor. Our Serhat Agency is also interested in EU projects in this direction. But, of course, its mission, as I said, is to produce information, produce analysis, create an information-based development strategy, and to act on all local actors and local dynamics as well. In that direction, we continue our efforts. Again, the main question motion of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3209) of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3209) brings up our relationship with countries such as Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In terms of trade, Turkey has free trade agreements with Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also use the TİKA channel to implement a large number of cultural projects in these areas. SERKA is related to its field, and our Serhat Agency is again holding meetings, broadcasting meetings, aimed at improving foreign trade, informing business environments with neighbouring countries. I'd like to underline that as a Minister of Development. Regional development policies cannot be dealt with independently of trade with neighbouring countries. Otherwise, it would be a very artificial development. When you look at it, it is international trade that brings Erzurum, Van, Tripoli, to these points in history. We must, of course, diversify our markets, especially our neighbouring countries, with the Caucasus, Asia, Middle East, and North Africa, taking into account the production structure that has slipped to Asia. We all know this is one of the most important dynamics of regional development. We were asked to trade with the countries of Black Sea Economic Co-operation in the main question motion of our Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/3118). I'll give you a number right now, which is where we came from. In 2002, we had $10.1 billion in trade volumes with these countries, so it went up to 60.3 billion in 2012, so it's up to six times. If you think that our exports have increased four times over this period, you'll see that there's an increased proportional share. In this global crisis environment, it is our policy that we are less impressed by the crisis in Europe than we are by the crisis in Europe. We diversified our export markets and reduced Turkey's risk. If we had not diversified our export markets, especially in neighbouring countries over the past decade, the crisis in Europe today would have affected us much more. Thankfully, this policy of ours is doing really well in this crisis. Turkey exports reached 152.5 billion dollars last year and continue to increase, despite a shortage of demand in the world. Again, the main question motion for Mr Ensar Öğüt. (6/3108) of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3108) is about the GAP region. When we look at matters in the GAP region, we make animal support, we develop the infrastructure of the OSBs as part of the new incentive system. Really, as I just said, our new incentive system is showing a very serious movement in a relatively peaceful environment. Hopefully, with this coming together, we'll see the private sector investments here in a much stronger way. Because, let's face it, in the context of terrorism, the public is making a persistent, stubborn investment, thank God. Whether there's an attack on our sites, if there's trouble, we're going back to our investments, but you can appreciate that where there's no peace, no matter how much you encourage private sector investments, they stay on paper; there's still progress, but it stays very, very low on potential. Now our new incentive policies will become much more effective in this peaceful environment, hopefully, and we'll see that the value of adding these regions to industry, to trade, to industry, is much higher because there's a potential that hasn't been used in a long time. From here, I'd like to call in some capital. Look, there's a general rule in economics: capital gets more revenue where it's scarce. Let these major capital companies come to our territories. I'm a bit of a pain in the ass about two things, actually big capital, one of which is research development spending, and the second of which is what they're investing in our relatively backward regions. On both counts, our large equity companies are failing, so to speak. Not with the public just doing these things. We don't expect charity from large capital companies; let them do some analysis, analyze opportunities. Really, there are a lot of projects that can be done profitablely in these areas. As I just said, the capital is very high because it's scarce. But for reasons such as a little image, a little extra effort, a little more than usual, I don't think there's enough investment in these areas. In the future, I expect large capital groups to invest more in the east, the southeast, the East Black Sea, certain parts of Central Anatolia. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğüt, our Ardahan MP (6/3370) main question motion is about Istanbul, about these fairgrounds. Here, these export targets are determined and are marked by the importance of fairs. No doubt it is important for our exporters to participate in international fairs for the development of export goals, and for the development of domestic fairs to become international fairs. In this scope, the EXPO 2020 nomination of Izmir (Izmir) is a clear indication of the importance our government has placed in this area. We support this at the level of government, at the highest level, and together, we carry out our efforts with great zeal. Again, it is our notification of the Support of Expo Participant Participants in 2009/5. We also support internationally-sponsored national residency fairs as part of the 1995/7 notification. On the other hand, various studies are being conducted through the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges. That's how I answered 52 questions, even briefly, by raising them for a minute. If we have MPs requesting further information, I would say that we are prepared to provide information in writing or other channels, and I would respectfully welcome your delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0239par0153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dedeoglu has entered the system. Do you have an explanation? You can make a brief statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0240par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've seen fit to raise a dollar a day to minimum wage and pension for 2013. The same thing in 2014, you're thinking about $1 a day? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0241par0159	I was there, sir, from the beginning.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0242par0160	Friends who ask questions have the right to explain their answers.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0241par0161	It was in there.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0242par0162	You don't have the statement today, sir. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have anything to say about Mr. Dedeoğlu? Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0243par0166	The net minimum wage was 184 liras in 2002, while it rose to 773 liras in January 2013. Nominal increase 320 percent, real increase 66 percent.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0244par0167	That's a lot of money, Mr. Secretary! Bravo!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0245par0169	Mr. Secretary, compare it to 2010-2011, what?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0243par0170	Here, of course... now that you know about our last increase, there's been an increase of over 8 percent. No more of that old inflation. Turkey is a stable country that has really stabilized prices, with financial stability, with price stability. When you think about these inflation rates, there's another increase in real inflation.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0246par0171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0247par0172	We've doubled the national income to three. You say, "Give it to me."
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0248par0173	What was the diesel in 2003, and what is the diesel now?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0249par0174	There's a 66 percent real increase.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0247par0175	Then why don't you say we've increased the national income by 60 percent? You're saying we've doubled the national income to three.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0250par0176	We've doubled it to three, it's not true.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0247par0177	If you're offering 60 percent, how is that a contradiction?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0251par0178	I wish you could give these real growths, and I wish you could give these real growths.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0247par0179	You're falling into a recession with yourself.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0252par0180	It's a three-story lie because it's 42 percent plus it's already at fixed prices.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0247par0181	Because that's a lie.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0253par0182	Well, then, you fell on the terrace with each other. So you're saying, "Arts, why didn't the minimum wage go up?" If it's 40 percent, then we've increased it.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0247par0183	Tell me if it's three floors plus or not.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0254par0184	Where did it go up?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0255par0185	Okay, thank you, sir. Mr. Secretary, please... you will answer to the others in writing. Thank you. Time's up.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0256par0188	Mr. Secretary, you don't know what you're talking about! If it's tripled, then give it to him!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0255par0189	Mr. Korkmaz... Thank you. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranked Postal Service Law Bill and the Development, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. Article 4 of the first chapter of the bill, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the 99th Amendment, dated 2/5/2013. Now, there are two motions on Article 5: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th amendment to the 5th article of the current 452 Orders of Postal Services Law shall be changed in the following manner. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Yusef Halaçoğlu Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal POS services covering the acceptance, collection, processing, delivery, and delivery of mail posts are performed by PTT and other service providers operating according to these Law provisions. (x) 452 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 99th Unification Charter, dated 02/05/2013. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS452) We request that Article 5 of the Postal Services Act be removed from the draft text. İlhan Demirözı Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Aykut Erdoğdu Sakine Öz Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0257par0227	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0258par0228	Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0255par0229	Mr. Akar, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0259par0231	Mr. President, we're dealing with another privatisation story. Of course, there's a new trend, and we started calling it emancipation, but with this liberalisation, we prepare to privatize institutions, and then we start selling them by tearing them apart. As you all know, the PTT had already been sold, and today we're putting together the law in order to prepare the rest of it for sale. Last week, we released the State Railways again; it's not too far; soon the sale will be on the agenda. Now, of course you're defending the liberal economy. When you defend the liberal economy, you're against the state being in front of a citizen as a business man or running an industrial organization, different institutions. You're trying to save these jobs by turning everything over to the private sector and privatizing it. Actually, if the Minister of Transport were here, I'd have something to say to him. The state has freed the Railways, soon to sell, freed the PTT, soon to send him away, has already left TELECOM, there is not much work left for the Minister of Transport, there is not much work left, it is already the third term of the Minister of Transport. It's thought to be an Izmir, but there's no bread in Izmir, so let's see what he does. In fact, he was a hardworking minister, and I'm very curious to know what he's going to do next. I wonder what will happen to her if she doesn't get bread from Izmir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0260par0233	The Department of Transport will always find a big project to do, don't worry.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0259par0234	You still don't understand, because you're not listening to what I'm saying. Now, with liberalisation and liberalisation, privatisation, you thought everything would be good for Turkey. In part of the speech of the State Railways, I explained how they didn't go well, how bad they were, how poor they made people, how they deprived them of organization. Now, again, you interpret it as being converted into a monopoly or a monopoly removal, and you support privatisation, liberalization, but in this very law, you're a little bit more supportive of converting it into a monopoly. PTT was already a monopoly, but with new additives, you've transformed PTT (PTT) into a more specific monopoly. In fact, the state has commissioned cartelization and monopoly on Article 167 of the Constitution. What's he saying? ▪ You need to avoid cartelization and monogamousization, he says. Now, is there a monopoly here? There is, and with this law, you're bringing in new additions to Turkey's monopoly. With privatisation, you're opening up another thesis you're defending to competition. So, is there competition in this law? No, there's no competition, there's total monopoly. And again, you say quality services will come along with privatisation. Is quality service coming? As we have seen in various examples, there is no quality service, as we have shown in earlier examples of privatisation and liberalisation. What kind of quality service? Because, for example, we're going to reduce the power outages of citizens with electric distribution companies. But in the data I've received from the Ministry of Energy, we see that the cuts of all power distribution companies that have been privatized have increased the number of cuts. That means the quality doesn't come in, and citizens are victims of a power outage. And we call it employment, is employment increasing? No, employment is not increasing, along with privatisation and liberalisation. The workers who were fired for Sugar Pil came today, 50 of their representatives came along with the unionists. About 1,200-1. There are 300 workers. Well, guys, we've been in this House for two years, but we haven't passed a law in favor of the worker, except for the capital. Today, we give the worker a six-month unemployment allowance, and then we leave him to his fate, leaving him to his family, his life, to his fate, and we call it life. So 1,300 people came from Candy Chicken today, and at this door, we were hungry at the door of the Assembly, and they were screaming, "We have no money for bread for our children." As a state, we need to make these arrangements, but we're just making arrangements to cover the budget deficit or transfer more funding to some capital groups. Can you tell me, Mr. Secretary, from this stand? You've just spoken... we've been following for two years, but I don't know about the previous periods - can you say that we've passed a law in favor of the citizen here in this House? Can you tell me 2/B? Can you tell me the policy? When we elaborate on these, can you tell us here what is the contribution of the Intibak law, the 2/B law, the Bedelli military law to the citizen? You can't. You say it, you say a lot of things like you always do, but I'm saying you'll see that it's empty when you get out on the street, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0261par0242	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0262par0243	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit06spe0261par0244	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0261par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 5 of the Law Bill 452, there was not enough decision-making to vote on the proposal of Samuel MP Haydar Akar and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I'm reading the other motion on Article 5: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th article of the Common Postal Service Act 452 shall be changed in the following way. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends POS services covering the acceptance, collection, processing, delivery, and delivery of mail posts are performed by PTT and other service providers operating according to these Law provisions. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0263par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0261par0017	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0264par0019	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, postal services were established in 1834 in the Ottomans for the first time in the modern way, and in 1939 the postal service was created literally, in today's sense. In times before that, the Ottoman state, you all know that without a telegram of 23 million square miles, without a plane, without a phone, had extended its news to the country in the best possible way, to the most extreme, remote corners, and the news from there had come to Istanbul in the same way, doing it best. In fact, you all know that, for example, Sultan Suleiman of the Law went to Vienna with an army of 200,000 people. All right, imagine you're going there with an army of 200,000 people, and there's 130,000 to 140,000 cavalry in this army, there's 140,000 cavalry, and there's people on it. If you think about how to satisfy the water needs of 130,000 horses, or how to satisfy the need for water, for food, for those 200,000 people, then you will understand the true size of the Ottoman state. Here, in the Ottoman Empire, the transport and telecommunications organization was established in such a methodical way, and the largest share of the state's great state was tied to them. Thus, it is evident that a number of institutions such as the telecommunications agency are essential to governments. So there are some institutions that shouldn't be privatized. But think of this privatized institution, our institution, which dates back to a very long time: in 1862, it was the first time that postage stamps were used. Again, a telegram was first used in 1854, which is not much of a time behind Europe; it was used in England in 1841, in 1844, in France, and in 1854, in the Ottoman Empire, and performed one of the most important tasks in the communication system. For example, in the communications of the army fighting on four fronts during the First World War, postal work, as we call it, has fulfilled the most important task. So, in a way, I think that the current postal service, which performs its tasks, however nostalgicly, is one of the important institutions that should not be privatized -- in my opinion. Even if you think about it in the liberal economy, there's a great deal of good that the postal service has somehow taken part in a different kind of disguise and transport -- in terms of its real place in its history -- if you consider it not a great burden to the government. Dear lawmakers, the fact that at a time when Turkish Telecommunications was on the agenda and privatised, the postal service was at least not privatised in any way is important in the first degree, in my view, in terms of historical commitment. With these words, I salute you all. And I wish you the best of decisions made about the agency.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0265par0023	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "ten times hard" in the article 3 of the 452 Order Numbered Postal Services Bill, which is currently in session, be changed to "100 times hard." D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 6 of the Postal Services Act be edited in the following manner. Article 6 - (1) The following services are subject to PTT's monopoly: A) The acceptance, collection, processing, processing, distribution, and delivery of telecommunications posts and credit cards and account statements that are written on or on or off letters abroad, regardless of their weight and volume. B) Admission, collection, processing, distribution and delivery of all kinds of notifications, including Article 7201 and other electronic environments, as long as the provisions of Tax Utilities Act 211/61 remain sealed for electronic notification. C) Postal services for Turkish Armed Forces in Peace. ) Printing and selling postage stamps, personal stamps, and memorial stamps, postcards, and first-day envelopes, showing the prices in the mail. (2) Even if the package is open to mail posts such as packages, parcels, mail, magazines, advertisements, advertisements, brochures, letters, or documents related to communication in this case, it is a violation of the mail monopoly to put signs and articles of communication on envelopes and belts. (3) Those who violate the postal monopoly are obliged to pay PTT ten times the amount of postal fee set by PTT for such violations. This compensation is registered at PTT. The posts detected within this range are forwarded by PTT to its recipient without delay. Other regulations concerning sanctions on mail monopoly violations are sealed." Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi İlhan Demiröz Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan İdris Yıldız Sakina Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 452 is the sixth of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Do you agree with the last motion read by the Commission? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0266par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0265par0060	Let's get him to read the motive. In EU legislation (Post directives I, II, III) mail has been removed in a monopoly. However, I. From the directive, net weight and fee for the postal monopoly has been defined. As a matter of fact, I. The directive determined that the border weight is below 350 grams and the price is at the lowest weight and is five times the descriptions of domestic postal posts in the fastest standard category. II. In the directive, the borders are 100 grams and tripled the minimum wage, 3. It's completely removed from the directive within a program. The first, the cargo/ courier companies, which have been active in 1982, have been able to work for 27 years without being subject to any grams or price restrictions. So the postal monopoly in Turkey was actually removed 27 years ago. Given the possibility of opening the way for privatisation with the law, any level of monopoly will be regressed from the current free competition environment. The postal monopoly in EU countries has been completely reset since 31/12/2012. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 6 of the Postal Services Act be edited in the following manner. Article 6- (1) The following services are subject to PTT's monopoly: A) The acceptance, collection, processing, processing, distribution, and delivery of telecommunications posts and credit cards and account statements that are written on or on or off letters abroad, regardless of their weight and volume. B) The adoption, collection, processing, distribution, and delivery of any notifications, including Article 7201 and other electronic media under the Law on Taxes 213, dated 4/1/1961, and the provisions of electronic notifications on electronic notifications. C) Postal services for Turkish Armed Forces in Peace. ) Printing and selling postage stamps, personal stamps, and memorial stamps, postcards, and first-day envelopes, showing the prices in the mail. (2) Even if the package is open to mail posts such as packages, parcels, mail, magazines, advertisements, advertisements, brochures, letters, or documents related to communication in this case, it is a violation of the mail monopoly to put signs and articles of communication on envelopes and belts. (3) Those who violate the postal monopoly are obliged to pay PTT ten times the amount of postal fee set by PTT for such violations. This compensation is registered at PTT. The posts detected within this range are forwarded by PTT to its recipient without delay. Other regulations concerning sanctions on mail monopoly violations are sealed." Erdal Aksunger (Izmir) and his friends Do you agree with the commission motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0267par0083	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0265par0084	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0268par0086	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers want to re-establish the PTT institution with the bill we're negotiating. However, in order to build a new structure, gross errors have been made, and the Constitution has been made. We have prepared a bill very carefully. Perhaps the government will say, but if they listen to me carefully, they will see how great mistakes they have made. This article defines the postal monopoly and expands the monopoly area in Law 5584. This expansion is under the provision of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications at the proposal of Information Technologies and Communications. So, the Ministry has the authority to take in a number of services provided by the postal monopoly. On the one hand, the monopoly is expanded, while this monopoly is given to a private law firm against the Constitution. PTT Inc is established on the 21st article of the bill. The PTT Act, established under Article 21 of the bill -- which describes the law in which the bill we are negotiating -- will be subject to special legal provisions other than the provisions of Law 6102. However, this company, whose entire capital belongs to the treasury, must be subject to the provisions of Act 233; in cases where the Turkish Trade Law has not been passed, it must be subject to provisions concerning the establishment of companies that cannot be judged on the issues related to its establishment. The Court of Law on Public Economic Oppositions 233 divides public economic initiatives into two groups: economic state institutions and public economic institutions. Economic state structures are set up to operate in an economic field according to commercial principles; they can also be established in the form of an anonymous company, if desired. Public economic initiatives are set up to present to citizens to produce the services of a monopoly. So, according to our legislation, PTT ASC, which was established to produce the monopoly, the mail monopoly, the service of the postal monopoly, the service of the postal monopoly, and the service of the service of the postal monopoly, the establishment of a private law firm is also being abandoned by the Constitution, while it should be established as a public economic institution, let alone a state-owned institution. This is clearly against the Constitution. In making such an arrangement, I find it highly objectionable to place an unconstitutional arrangement. Article 167 of our Constitution gives the state the task of preventing cartelisation and monopoly in the markets. It's also against matter. The services of a monopoly can be transferred to private companies through concession contracts. The contract between Information Technologies and Communication Association and PTT Inc is a contract of duty, not an agreement on the transfer of privilege. Because according to the provisions included in this bill, the postal monopoly is not owned by the Information Technologies and Communication Agency, but by PTT AŞ, which will operate according to special legal provisions. The fact that all of his capital belongs to the treasure doesn't mean he's a public economic institution or a public official. It's against regulations. Come on, let's take our motion, let's clear this up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0269par0095	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill be changed to 100 Levels, which is part of Article 6's third joke. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0270par0104	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0269par0105	Mr. Özensoy, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0271par0106	Mr. President, I have received your word on the motion we've made. I salute you all. Of course, the motions we've made have nothing to do with the sanctions of the PTT. I mean, what's ten times the price of a postage charge? Let's make it 100 times more for him. we said. The Minister probably didn't even look at what he wrote because as a result, it's not coming from the ruling party. Of course, when the law began to meet on Thursday, I said that PTT workers in Burma were on their way to Ankara on foot, especially the union representative. As of today, those friends arrived in Ankara on foot, walking 300 miles, swelling their soles, even edema at their feet. And I said at the time, they have two demands: One is that PTT is not Ash. I mean, it's because it's understood, of course, that it's going to be privatized. Mr. Minister and General Manager say it won't be privatized. But we've seen whatever Ash has been formed so far, it's been privatized. I mean, it's not like it's meant to be or anything. And to be given a share of the wear and tear. Look, let's do a survey on the street. What do you think of? Absolutely, it's probably the mailman first. I mean, the mailman's been in the songs, he's been in the movies. So the mailman is one of the most physically tired of people working, perhaps working among the people who are working. So why don't we just give the House the portion of these really worn-out people, and there's no way to figure that out. Of course, we don't give the employees their disposable share, but I told them on Thursday -- we're confiscating their $238 trillion. He distributes his 18 trillions to show off, here, 30 per cent to the IRS, and the government spends the rest to improve the PTT. Besides, when these improvements are being made, there are only wild expenses being made. Look, when I say wild, I'm going to give you samples, and I'm not saying anything. Unused mailboxes. Look, as you can see here in the picture, there are plastic mailboxes on the streets where you may not have noticed what happened. 15 grand each at $1,650. Look, there's some stuff coming out of those mailboxes right now that looks like garbage or paper or recycling boxes. Mr. General Manager, seriously, the postal services are being delivered to those streets as expected. Let him say, "I'll come out and apologize on the next item because I know it won't come out." Other than that, from hand terminals for 1,500 dollars -- these software in these hand terminals -- 12,000 of them were taken and the software was spent three or four times 200 or 300 dollars because it wasn't right, and that's how they were wasted. Again, Jihet recovery, tracking the distributors, listening devices removed. Even when they were available for $300,400 from the market, it cost $600, and it cost 13,000. Look, PTT, as I've been saying, he's stingy about improving the situation of his employees and the situation of those who have rights, but here he is, taking things from someone, his followers, etcetera, that don't work, and taking money from those employees and taking money from the chest. That's how I wanted to put it from here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0272par0118	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Subsequent 6 has been accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 In Article 7 of the First Postal Service Act, we propose that the statement of the 1st Amendment to the service providers will be replaced as............ the service providers.................................................................................... İlhan Demirözı Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Turgay Develi Doğan Dawn Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill be replaced as unsearchable and unreadable. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Alim Iklım Adnan Şişek Ugly Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 452 Line 7 of the Numbered Legislature We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0273par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0272par0148	Let's get him to read the reason: It is envisioned by the bill that postings be detained by law-designed authorities. This expression is not clear. A detailed description of who was appointed in charge and a clear description of the contents of the mail must be made. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the next motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill be replaced as unsearchable and unreadable. Adnan Safik Ugly (Hatay) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0274par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0272par0161	Mr. Ugly, here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0275par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the reason why we have proposed that the imposition of the interior cannot be researched or changed into unreadable is to strengthen its meaning through constitutional security. Congressmans, communication security is very important. I mean, there's a reputation for discussing an issue in our country and a healthy outcome in a country without communication security. Which idea man, which congressman, which bureaucrat, can make sure that when talking to someone on the phone, for example, communicating, expressing an opinion on a matter, they're not heard? Even the Prime Minister said, "I'm resting, I'm resting." There are no constitutional changes in Turkey today in an environment where investigations are being launched. There are no such things as what the government calls "responsibility." I mean, if you're trying to come up with an opinion about anything in this country, like, this solution process, the process of dissolution, if you're asking for an opinion, even if you're a congressman, you can't give you a healthy answer. It's one of the government's top duties, and it's the government's job to make it happen. Yes, there have been incidents like that in the past, but it's not just a matter of the government's time. Communication security has not only been damaged during this administration's time, but it is this period, unfortunately, when the most severe damage is the time when the tapes, these, even the edited audio tapes, are flying through the air. Mr. President, while I've had the opportunity last night, I'd like to share my thoughts on what's happening in Reyhanlı district of Hatay Province, which is my district. We've said over and over again that the government's wrong policies on Syria will eventually hit a wall somewhere, hang out somewhere. I'm here today to tell you, I assure you, this is a good day. If there are 30,000 Syrians among Reyhanlı, whose population is around 80,000, if there are no indication of what they are doing or what they are doing, this is what will happen if our citizens of Reyhan fall into a lot of trouble because of them. We are never opposed to being looked at by our government, our government, the people who are truly in need of religion, the children of the neighbouring country, the people who are in real defection; it is imperative, it is imperative. However, yesterday's incident was an insult to our flag, which may not be true -- let alone that -- but the response that the citizen suddenly believes in and reacts to, should be an important warning to the government and to you. We're saying it's bad, it could cause an explosion at any moment, it could have been yesterday's rumor, but the truth is, we've been flaged in Urbana, and our police have been martyred. We've said over and over again that they're an important part of those who fight the government under the name of the government, that this weapon will return to us tomorrow, and there it is. Hopefully, the government will come to its senses and begin to reconsider Syrian policy. Thank you very much, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0276par0170	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 In Article 7 of the First Postal Service Act, we propose that the statement of the 1st Amendment to the service providers will be replaced as............ the service providers.................................................................................... Turgay Develi (Adana) and his friends Do you agree with the commission motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0277par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0276par0180	Mr. Develi, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0278par0182	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the unions and workers who resist the slave law to avoid this law. We're overseeing the PTT (CIT) Commission on this liberalisation law that paves the way for privatisation of the PTT (PTT) initiative of public economics. I'd like to remind you of a few of the findings we've seen during our inspections, the review board, and the court that you're trying to change its law. Dear AK PARTY MPs, in particular, I want you to listen to this because tomorrow, in your election districts, all of this will be brought to you by workers. My fellow citizens, I will now tell you how the AK PARTY bureaucrats use PTT Irresistibly, in their moods, without any supervision, using the money of the treasure, the government's money, and doing nothing to account for it. Court inspectors have found that the accounts of the PTT (our General Manager) -- here in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 -- came to 2012 -- were not inspected by the head of the Department of Supplies, Accounting and Finance. Can you imagine, people working for 37,000 people, 5 billion dollars invested between 2008 and 2011 alone, and now the law is being made with the law that we're talking about, the president of the Department of Finance and Supplies hasn't been audited since four years ago. What does that mean? The funds of the Treasury, 75 million citizens, all of us budgeted by the PTT. Accounting, resources, and the administration of the Department of Supply have not been subject to any audits, the review board has not examined any documents. We asked at the CIT Commission, why is this so? We got the answer. We're going to inspect it in 2013. Well, now, the company's going to be sold, privatizing. What about the unsupervised accounts before this? Who's gonna pay for this? We're going to leave this government, this nation's money at the mercy of a general manager, board members? It's not just that. A very interesting accounting process was made in PTT. Despite the fact that he insisted and insisted on spending on this pen, it is not from that pen, but from another accounting transaction that cost $34m. See if it's fun. They spent this nation's money on pleasure. The money in a pen is $34 million. None of the other coins have been inspected or traced. Now, this company is being privatized under the name of liberalisation, trying to vaporize accounts that haven't been asked for four years in the past, in a sense. Does that fit your conscience?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0279par0188	Legal obligation is five years.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0278par0189	Legal obligation is five years. After five years, you pass control over to the private sector, just like you did in TEDAS, and you get rid of it, and you fool the nation. I'll be right back. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0280par0193	Thank you, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0281par0194	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0280par0195	Yes, I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0282par0197	No, no...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0283par0198	Yes, there is, Mr. President. If you're having second thoughts, do it electronically.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0284par0200	We'll vote on the electronic device, and I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I now submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 7 is accepted. There are four motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the notice from the article of the article 8 of the current Postal Services Bill from the text of the article. Mustafa Elitaş Ismail Tamer Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen Osman Jaffeci Smurf Ünal Recep Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill, which is considered to be changed to the subtitle of the article (1) in the second joke. Namik Havutça Haluk Eyidoğan Ali İhsan Kokturk Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Erdal Aksunger Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the first sentence of Article 8 of the 452 Numbered Postal Services Bill, which is discussed, there is no delay penalty for the missing or more. We propose and demand that the sentence be added. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Mehmet Günal Kemalettin Yilmaz Necati Özensoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 452 Line 8 of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0285par0232	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0284par0233	Read the reason, please. Collecting missing funds requires an extra workload and process. The collection process will be against the public if no optimal value is determined in the collection. In this regard, the optimal amount must be calculated and specified in the bill. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the first sentence of Article 8 of the 452 Numbered Postal Services Bill, which is discussed, there is no delay penalty for the missing or more. We propose and demand that the sentence be added. Kemalettin Yilmaz (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0286par0245	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0284par0246	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0287par0247	Kemalettin Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0284par0248	Kemalettin Yilmaz... Mr. Yilmaz, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0288par0251	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment proposal for Article 8 of the Postal Services Act 452. I salute your high council. We continue to experience another classic of the AKP government. In the name of autonomy, they continue to build their own secret AKP farms. In 1840, a national institution founded as the Postal Guard, which carried out great tasks in the Ottoman Empire and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, is being moved into the order of more capital and bosses. You're putting the great châtar PTT. It's a hundred and seventy-three years of history. So in the name of autonomy, you aim to establish PTT ASH. We've been building it for years. You've been making every part of PTT a go after subcontractors, subcontractors who don't know how to do business. PTT is now a government agency that works with dozens of subcontractors in each department from cleanup to security, distribution to cargo, and continues to get their own staff to do the job he's tendering when he's making money for the nation. When someone made millions of liras, you made your staff bankers, you made mailmans, you made delivery men. And while you are doing this work, you continue to disregard the postman, the distributor, the officer, who has worked for the institution for many years, and you almost undermine their rights. You tell the current staff to work if they come to work, if they don't work, they give you to an institution under contract, and you say, "Do what you want there." This is not an attitude that suits institutional culture or state morality. Because of what you've done with the country's economy, you've made the mailman a public servant in the public eye, giving out bad news, giving out notices, making a debt statement. Now that we're done with you, we'll get all the work done, we'll get all the work done according to our heads, if not, we'll get the subcontractor. You're trying to get the power that's missing to say, you know, autonomy. Dear MPs have been assigned to its clients, which are the national institutions of the Republic of Turkey which have been privatised. The privatisation of TEDAS is damaged in the sale of PETKIM. Turkey's TELEKOM has happened to its sold customers, thousands of citizens in distress, suffering from the torture of this institution. The country's telecommunications is in the hands of foreign capital, while the citizen is a common goose in the eyes of capital. From the Internet, you've made his phone an institution that is cruel to everyone. PTT will be put in the same position, an anonymous company will open the way for privatisation, and tomorrow there will be serious casualties from the citizen's cake. In every business from telegram to post, there will be serious casualties in services provided by PTT, which is not a public institution. In Article 22 of the Constitution, the article titled "freedom of information" given to citizens will also be seized on the constitutional rights of the citizen, due to services that should be provided by the state. The PTT's phone service, after all, was made a profit. Next, you are opening the way to privatise the remaining parts of PTT. In many countries around the world, oil, communication, postal services are nationally protected, even as some countries are renationalizing, there is no understanding of what this desire is for us. If you sell PTT Tomorrow to a foreign capital group close to your power -- no doubt about it -- but notice there's a song that says, "Look, the mailman's coming, the mailman's looking at him. Everybody's looking at him." Instead of this song, don't come, postman, don't come to my door. Don't bring me any letters, don't bring me any news. You'll have to sing the song. Dear lawmakers, in general, the privatisation of PTT (PTT), which serves with less and more qualified personnel, makes about 200 million dollars a year, should be immediately waived. Even if PTT is to be autonomous, the law shall be passed, which will restore autonomy, and must be continued as a public institution that modernises services and products, even adding the phone to the second one, as a mail, telegraph, telephone service. Honourable MPs, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0289par0259	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0290par0260	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0289par0261	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0291par0263	There is, Mr. President, there is.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0289par0264	Yes, there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill, which is considered to be changed to the subtitle of the article (1) in the second joke. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0292par0272	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0289par0273	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0293par0274	Mr. Turgay Develi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0289par0275	Mr. Develi, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0294par0277	Mr. President, these are the laws that the Justice and Development Party has to make, the sale of the State Railways, the sale of TEK, the sale of the SECA, the sale of the SECA, all of them. The EC PARTY, which is the political concubine of global finance, will either adopt these laws and submit Turkey to the service of global finance or be taken out of power that day. He doesn't have a choice, you have to, even if none of the MPs sitting here don't come from within these laws, he has no chance to say no.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0295par0278	How do you know?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0294par0279	Because you've been brought to power on this mission. When you're brought to power on this mission, bureaucrats who are encouraged by your lack of courage run companies, institutions as they know it. Another example is that PTT was auctioned in 2012 to receive various services, tenders were made; postal distribution tenders, cargo distribution tenders. Three months passed, five months passed, and when the companies he handed over, the tenders, failed to do the work, the work began to be done to the staff workers of PTT. So, friends, valued lawmakers, I want you to listen carefully to how our money is squandered, how it's been abused, how unqualifiedly you've been managed, and the board has instructed these companies to do criminal procedures by writing instructions to the district managers. Yeah, well, it's a tender, it's a job, it's a job, and when it's not done, the contractor has to be fined by contract. However wise it was with the PTT General Director and the Chairman of the Governing Body's signature that we were in this business to make a tender before the infrastructure was prepared. They asked that the sentence be cancelled. We asked you at the commission, if you weren't ready to make the tender, why did you take the tender? You bid, you hand over the job, why did the company take the job if the infrastructure wasn't up to it? It couldn't be done for three months, the right from the contract required those companies to pay a fine, why did you cancel it later? How much damage does the public have to do with PTT? How much money was paid to a company that didn't do business? Give them to us, explain them. We said in front of the Minister, at the top commission meeting. Mr. Secretary has instructed the General Manager to give it to him. I don't know those details either. So we waited with hope, wondering how the PTT General Manager, how the board of directors, how many mistakes they've made, how much money they've paid on top when they're supposed to be fined. The answer didn't have any numbers, guys. Again, he hid from a member of parliament, from a party group, from you valued lawmakers, how much the state has been damaged. Let me ask you again, how much money were these companies paid? How much of this nation's money was paid to contractors because of the mistakes made by government lawless bureaucrats who couldn't do their job well? Why do you refuse to explain it? Why? What's the reason? We're gonna tell these people the truth. If you have a heart, if you have no fault, explain these numbers, and we will learn together. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0296par0284	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the notice from the article of the article 8 of the current Postal Services Bill from the text of the article. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0297par0293	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0296par0294	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0298par0295	They're in, it's nothing.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0299par0296	He can't, you know the Commission must attend.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0298par0297	And so did the Commission.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0299par0298	The Commission can't participate, the Commission can't approve. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Our congressman who just spoke here doesn't know what he's saying at this time of night... because, I hope, I hope, I wish he'd take back what he said. What is a concubine of global capital?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0300par0301	She's a political concubine. Politicians don't have concubines, no other way. Yeah, that's what you're doing.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0301par0304	This is an expression that exceeds the bounds of discipline, an expression that exceeds the limits of discipline.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0300par0306	It's not rude. You're a political concubine. You do everything you're told.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0301par0307	No one here or there has the right to do this injustice, to be rude.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0300par0308	Don't do this!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0301par0309	Whose concubine are you?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0300par0310	I'm the Turkish nation's... You're the concubine of imperialism, political concubine... why are you selling these institutions? - I'm a servant of the Turkish nation, I've come out to be a servant of the Turkish nation, no one's concubine... Don't do this! Don't do this! Sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit Look, dear lawmakers, we'll digest any criticism, we'll digest it, but no one here has the right to accuse anyone differently. What's a concubine? It means you do everything you're told. The woman who serves the man is a woman. Shame on you! Politically speaking, concubineship means a woman who does what she's told to do.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0302par0318	What you're doing is wrong. It means buying and selling goods.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0300par0319	You can't think of anything but women.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0302par0320	Sit down, sit down! It means buying and selling goods.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0303par0322	Please, friends... please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0302par0323	For ten years, we have served this nation for 11 years, and we strive to serve this nation. What we're doing is obvious, and what we're doing is obvious. It's like people don't have minds, it's an AK PARTY government sold to global capital, but it's a Republican People's Party that's never done anything about the problems of this country, about people's problems, about the people's problems, and it's getting results every time.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0304par0324	I'll see you, I'll see you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0302par0325	That's why this country hasn't brought you to power in 60 years. You're just saying it, you're insulting it, you're slandering it, but people come in, they teach you a lesson every time in the trunk.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0304par0326	Answer the questions I asked.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0302par0327	You can answer that question in writing, but as long as you ask the question you're asking with decency and manners, if the Civil Code gives him authority, if the President permits him, the Minister will answer that question. Tell me, members of law, you don't know what law it is. If you have a conscience, if you have a heart, what is your heart size? Do you have the heart to come in here and talk? Come on, let's go out there and weigh the hearts. What do you say? [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's be careful how we speak at this time of night, let's be modest. We say we're open to criticism, we say we're open to any criticism, and we say that anyone can make these criticisms unless there's slander, unless there's slander, unless there's blasphemy in it. But everyone has to know where it's going to go, so that we can get up here and get our fellow MPs to listen quietly, to listen to the passion of the bench, to the lust of the word, to the point of the word. For him, it's about the law...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0305par0331	President, have you given him 15 minutes?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0306par0332	I don't understand, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0305par0333	You've given him 15 minutes?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0306par0334	He's got a suggestion. He can talk for five minutes, Mr. Cameli.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0307par0335	Yeah, that makes sense, he can see five minutes in 15 minutes. What shall we say? I can't say anything else. See, dear lawmakers, you tell them the laws we've made, you express them, you've done wrong here, you've done wrong here. You say, "You've done wrong here." The citizen is watching, reading the transcripts, you'll have a press conference tomorrow, you'll assess it, you'll complain about us. In your complaints to the public, if you understand people's language, if you can get into their hearts, people will support you in the elections a year from now, teaching the AK PARTI power in the election of local governments. He'll come in the 2015 parliamentary elections, and he'll teach you his lesson, but since you know nothing but slander...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0308par0337	He's not slandering, he's not slandering.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0307par0338	I'm sorry, this nation hasn't been in power in 60 years.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0308par0339	Drop the demagogy.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0307par0340	...in 2023, in 2053, and in 2071, the AK will bring PARTI and the AK PARTI mentality to power, and no one will be able to prevent it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0309par0343	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0310par0344	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0309par0345	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0310par0346	Mr. Elitaş has been harassing the Republican People's Party Group as he responds to Mr. Develi's statement, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0311par0347	I didn't answer, I spoke on behalf of the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0309par0348	Here you are, sir, in two minutes, please, without a new pick-me-up.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0310par0352	Mr. President, good lawmakers can be used to use words that go beyond the means of criticism from time to time. Of course, it's better not to use it, but it's a political criticism by Mr. Develi. He didn't use any words of insult. But that word can be interpreted differently, it can also be understood by Mr. Elitaş, but in that sense, Mr. Develi didn't mean anything by it. However, when Mr. Elitaş discussed this word and criticised it, he used far more severe criticism, much more severe sentences.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0312par0353	Like what?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0310par0354	I, then, correct Mr. Develi's sentence and point out to you: "Cari is clearly a bribe from your government to international capital. Do you object?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0313par0355	I do.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0310par0356	No, it can't be.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0313par0357	Mr. Hamzacebi... please, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0310par0358	You don't object, you don't speak because your vice president said that sentence. Yes, a vice-president of yours has described the current deficit of the EC PARTY governments for ten years as a bribe to international capital by the AK PARTY governments. So, according to your vice president's statement, you survive by bribing international capital.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0314par0359	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0310par0360	Yes, that's how I understood Mr. Develi's sentence. I don't understand what you mean by insulting me. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0315par0363	Understanding is so different, you're right, understanding is so different!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0316par0369	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit Article 8 to your votes...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0317par0371	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0316par0372	Yes, I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 8th article is accepted, there is enough to decide.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0317par0373	Is there?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0316par0374	There's a motion for a new substance violation, and I'm going to read it:
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0317par0375	Mr. President, is there really? We counted 97 people...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0316par0376	That's the information I was given.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0318par0377	He hasn't found 100, 100!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0316par0378	Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following 9th article be added after Article 8 of Postal Services Act 1/751, and that the existing substances be identified accordingly. "Objects not allowed to be sent via mail Article 9- (1) It is forbidden to mail the items shown below: A) It's dangerous materials like these that can endanger people, contaminate or corrupt postal materials, or flare up or explode because of their nature and property or packaging. B) Other drugs such as opium, morphine, cocaine, and other drugs, except for the official documents in which they were sent for medical or fenni purposes and that their senders were allowed to send such posts. C) Articles with insults or expositional addresses or forbidden nicknames, titles and phrases written on them. Articles that do not comply with general standards and customs, and that promote a violation of security and criminal activity, pictures, and writings. D) All kinds of substances that are prohibited from buying, selling, moving, or passing by the law, regulations, and regulations. Other than living animals that are alive and dried or preserved, and other insects that have been allowed to be sent by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism with silk beetles and other insects that have been prevented from becoming dangerous. f) The mail stamps, postal bonds, bills, paper money, or any valuable paper available to those holding it. g) Sending coins and processed or uncut platinum, gold, silver, precious stones and jewels, and such valuable items, with other postal posts from valuable boxes or boxes. İlhan Demirözı Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Doğan Şaş I'm going to ask the Commission now, and if the Commission joins in the motion with only 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause; and if the commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Now, I ask the Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0319par0400	You have to invite him.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0320par0401	There's no such thing as an invitation. Mr. President's going to invite everyone? He goes there. He's a member of the IRS.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0316par0402	Yes, you can.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0319par0403	So that's the way it is.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0320par0404	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a formal invitation, only if the Commission sits there.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0321par0405	There's no need, there's no need for an invitation.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0320par0406	Mr. President, we don't need an invitation, the commission goes there and sits down.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0322par0407	The commission...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0323par0408	They heard the motion. There's no need for an invitation, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0322par0410	You can't participate just because you don't have a majority.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0324par0411	Sir, there is no such procedure. Mr. President, let's not take another step.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0322par0412	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. Now there are three motions on Article 9: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 452 Orders of Postal Services Bill, which is held in the 7th Article of the 9th Amendment, is "warned three times in writing" to come after the declaration of "substantial and fundamentals." In the continuation of anti-controversial practices," we propose and propose the addition of the sentence of the declaration. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Cemalettin Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "PTT's rights and obligations to the authority shall be signed with the Institution. This contract is exclusive to stamp tax and tuition. " With its second and third sentences in its shape, its number (6) joke "... Or for national security, public order and general health reasons, we propose and propose the removal of the declaration and the article #8 from the text of the article. İlhan Demirözı Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Doğan Şaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 452 Orders 9 of the Numbered Legislature We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Commission, do you agree with the final motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0325par0435	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0322par0436	Read the reason, please. On the one hand, PTT is granted an Anonymous Company status, while on the other hand, signing a duty contract instead of a warrant. This means a concession to a company with an anonymous company status. At the same time, the risk of allowing authorization to be denied on very broad and open grounds, such as national security, public order and health. This is a violation of the principle of equality. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0326par0441	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0322par0442	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0327par0443	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0328par0444	Mr. President, do the electronics.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0322par0445	The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "PTT's rights and obligations to the authority shall be signed with the Institution. This contract is free of stamp tax and tuition." With its second and third sentences in its shape, its number (6) joke "... Or for national security, public order and general health reasons, we propose and propose the removal of the declaration and the article #8 from the text of the article. Idris Star (Army) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0329par0453	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0322par0454	Mr. Idris Star, Army. Mr. Star, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0330par0457	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 9th Amendment of the Ministerial Service Act. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0331par0458	Mr. President, from now on, I'm going to ask for enough to decide, but only if the clerks count as one.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0332par0459	Straighten the clock.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0330par0460	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out something first. The Justice and Development Party's Kızılcahamam camp made a statement Saturday evening regarding the MİT-PK talks. We all know the authority, duty, and responsibility of the MIT. Of course, they know what negotiations to make with the PKK, another institution, other circumstances, the field of duty, authority and responsibility, but I listened carefully and carefully to the statement made by the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister said that there were not only MIT-PKK talks during the period of this government, but also during the period of MIT-PKK talks during the late Ozal, during Erbakan, even during its late term, and even in its own testimony -- the 56th and 57th Government. Of course, I find it natural that the MIT is meeting with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and I find it within its fields of duty, authority and responsibility, but in this address, I have seen that Mr. Ecevit., the late Erbakan and Mr. Yıldırım Akbulut, Mr. Mesut Yilmaz. I'm amazed, as an example, that we're talking about the peace process, the process of resolution. Mr. Prime Minister, how important peace is to this country, how much it is to this country, and how much opposition party leader Mr. Kilicdaroglu and other politicians, we all say together, that we have declared a campaign in this country, but while the Prime Minister has spoken of the word "peace," his prime ministers, the late Mr. Ecevit. If we, under the roof of this House, under the House of Veterans, cannot talk peace together, if the Prime Minister, who represents this country, does not express it differently, I leave it to all of you to his discretion how we will make this peace. My dear friends, the need for the liberalisation of the postal sector and the organisation of the sector has come up in Turkey's context of the European Union integration process, and the European Union has asked Turkey to organise the sector according to European standards. I want to talk about what kind of phases the European Union wants us to go through and what problems the European Union's interior market has faced. The European Union aims to liberalise the mail sector and integrate the internal market in the mail service, ensure that all citizens at the European Union level are offered effective, reliable and quality postal services with appropriate regulatory structures and affordable pay for all citizens at the European Union level. However, the European Union Commission has targeted the privatisation of the postal sector in all member countries by 2009, but has been supported by many members of the European Parliament as well as by Italy, Spain, Greece, Poland, Hungary and many other member states in France, Belgium and Luxembourg to delay the liberalisation of the monopoly mail service providers. However, postal service providers in Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands and Britain, where liberalisation has begun or is being completed, have not paid much attention to the European Union countries' aim to conclude this work by 2009. Postal workers have also gone on a mass strike across Europe, saying their goal is to "protect universal postal service in Europe," among the fears that rapid privatisation would destroy public officials and result in considerable layoffs and provide a weaker service for the customer. In the end, the European Parliament's Transport Committee adopted a overwhelming majority of the delay in liberalising European mail by 2011. The ongoing debate on the council has led to polarisation between France and Germany.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0333par0467	Mr. Star, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0330par0468	Mr. President, there's something...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0333par0469	I gave you a minute and a half more than the opposite time.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0330par0470	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0333par0471	We did, sir, yes. It happened in the beginning. It's very... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0330par0473	Okay.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0333par0475	Thank you very much. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0334par0477	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0333par0478	Okay, I'll just call the number of decisions. Those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 452 Orders of Postal Services Bill (7) is warned three times in writing to come after the declaration of "substantial and fundamentals" in Article 9 (7) of Article 9 (7). In the continuation of anti-controversial practices," we propose and propose that the sentence be added. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0335par0487	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0333par0488	You did, Lightning, Samsun. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0336par0490	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the amendment motion that we've made regarding Article 9 of the Law on Postal Services, 452 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. Honourable lawmakers are authorized by Information Technologies and Communication Agency to provide postal service with matter or to establish and operate the infrastructure necessary for this. In the 7th article of the article, the authorization document organises how the service provider's activities will be cancelled by the institution if it violates the legislation. The amendment motion envisions first warnings of companies' illegal work and actions, and then further cancellation of the authorization, despite warnings. I hope you'll agree to this amendment proposal. Dear lawmakers, here now, the state thus markets its postal services so that one more load is thrown over, but in a sense, the state is putting all the burdens on the citizens while they're getting rid of the burdens of these institutions. That's the policy of the one who's completely left behind. While the state is marketing and liberalizing, it is devoid of the ability to become a social state. Yes, it seems to be a modern approach to creating competitive policies to the state as a justification for this law, but every law taken in that sense increases the cost of service and brings new burdens to the citizens, I'm afraid. Dear lawmakers, I was in Samsun last week, where I had the opportunity to meet with people from all walks of life, peasants, tradesmen, minimum wage, workers, civil servants and pensioners. Unfortunately, the peasant can't sell the produce at its cost, so he's giving up his farm. We have tradesmen who are out of business, the markets are still, who shut down their shop before they actually fail. The tradesman is no longer able to pay his debts to bail and banks. He's been unable to move for minimum wage, and he's at a loss for what he's going to do. The state of the pensioners is known to us all. The pensioners are unable to support themselves, but are also under the obligation to care for their son, a college graduate, married, unemployed, because of unemployment in our country. Look, you're making the law 2/B here, you're going to make money for the government, but the villagers that I'm seeing in Samsun, the 2/B land, we don't have the power to pay for it. They're screaming, "We don't have the power to pay for it." But here you're counting how much money you're going to get into the government's vault. You're making our nation a slave by handing out some of the money you've made from these parts to the citizens like alms. In the name of social aid, some of the alms you impose on the acquish of the European Union are making the welfare benefits of citizens more difficult and more difficult. Look, as you can see, I have a report to present to you now. This is a report from a public hospital to get a maintenance fee, dear friends. A citizen with many defined diseases in this report is, for example, a nuclear cataract, emotional tremoru, stomach malign neoplasia, urine incontinence, hearing loss and hip arthritis, with 97 per cent of the injuries, but unfortunately not severely disabled, according to the government's new criteria. Is that even possible? It turns out that 97% of our citizens are disabled, but due to the new criteria, unfortunately, he can't benefit from the maintenance fee due to his lack of care report. Dear friends, the AKP is here to drag our citizens around the hospital, as it does every time it does. Yes, you're 97 percent disabled, but you can't take advantage of your right to care. He makes fun of our citizens. If our citizen with 97 percent injuries can't benefit from child care benefits, then who will? This citizen will object to the report given, but this time, if they transfer him to Ankara, how will he provide the money to come from one side? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... on the other hand, he thinks about how to bring this patient to Ankara. I had a lot of things to say, but I'm so glad I'm out of time.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0337par0502	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of Postal Services Act, number 1/751, be removed from the draft text. İlhan Demirözük Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar İdris Star Erdal Aksunger Sakine Öz Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0338par0517	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0337par0518	Mr. Aksinger, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0339par0519	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I ask God's mercy to Abraham Yazpur, the very precious President of the Bursaspor that we have lost today. I'm just saying, I'm sorry for the head of the sports community and the company of Bursaspor. We've lost a very important friend. Now, as I said in particular about privatisation of the Postal Law, we're talking about a very important brand that is actually sitting at the very top of a very important sector in the world, one hundred and seventy-three years old. Brand values are rising in the world. I think one of the most important sectors is logistics, after the development of the digital sector, when all trade actually sits on the digital platform. As we've seen, after 2000, companies in the logistics industry around the world have grown 10 to 15 times, they've made huge revenues in the stock markets, and that's where they really come from in Turkey, too. Most of the companies that came in from the outside, most of the companies that they made the first demands -- maybe it's wrong to say in brands -- they bought two big brands, they brought them to very important places. Why am I saying this? The next process, on one occasion, is going to go as long as a five-person firm is willing to turn $5 billion on the Internet in ten years. That's not what I'm saying, it's the CEOs at the top of the world's leading, very important institutions. But what's the danger? However, the intermediary, the labor force, will gradually destroy all the services that need them, apparently. So it will destroy all the workers in this new labour-employment scheme. But in the meantime, there are emerging sectors. Logistics is one of them. We all know what they've done to get TELEKOM out of it. There, we've said it before. From that day on, since you've privatized it, it's become a company that's making $84 billion today. So, what happened? The rest of them, they scraped away the pulp, passed it on to different institutions of the state, the people who worked there. The company that bought TELEKOM, who claimed to invest 11 billion dollars, did nothing, and he sat on top of everything. Well, at the point that you've brought back today about PTT, you're saying that further services will also be cheap to do public service. That's not what happened in TELEKOM, and TelEKOM is selling the world's most expensive Internet today. You sold the IDO (Istanbul Sea Buses), he terrorized the place for a while, started carrying men across the street against $400. Then there was so much reaction that he had to go to the arrangement. By the way, the guy bought this place for 20 years for ten years, and what did he do? He's opened up businesses that can make 10 times as much income as you think. Brother, I'm a completely anti-privatization man. I'm saying this, though, that I'm starting some very important firms in the private sector. Why do I say it? In the future, it seems, the business is at stake. You can't build these institutions again. You sell it ten years, fifteen years. As you will not be able to establish these institutions again, you will not be able to solve the problems of employment in this country in a very serious way. Look, if you want to make PTT (PTT) efficient, let me just say a few words in common: they have so many logistics companies. They're at the doors, they're at the window, they're at marketing, they're at marketing. Worst-case scenario, they're transferring the handwriting that I believe is very valuable. You might think about it, you might as well sit down and consider it. And what I don't understand is why did they give it to BTK? I wonder if they couldn't find a smart man at another agency and told the people at BTK to come and organize it. There's a discrepancy here, why BTK, what does it have to do with BTK? I don't think it's even remotely relevant. Apparently, as of this process, PTT is going to be sold, on one occasion, far below the brand value, obviously, that's what it looks like. But it would be nice if you could try and make it a productive company. There are no such institutions all over Turkey, no such institutions in the world. 50 percent of companies like DHL, TNT, are already in the hands of the government, the companies you've known for years. Fifty percent of the world's giants are government. Look at what he's doing, try to apply him, guys. I think there's something seriously wrong here. I salute you all with such wrongs and with the hope that you will prevent the future from being wrong as soon as possible.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0340par0526	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 452 Orders of Postal Services Bill be replaced by 3/5 of the following in the 11th article of the 11th article. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 The Article 11 of the Prime Postal Service Act shall be changed to Article 11 of Article (1), (2) and (3) in the form of "the cost of administrative service" of "the executive fee," (1) in the first chapter of its "5 in a thousand," and we shall propose that it be replaced as "3 in a thousand." İlhan Demirözı Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Doğan Şaş İdris Yıldız Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the 452 Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0341par0552	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0340par0553	Read the reason, please. The government displays its understanding of non-restriction in privatisation in all legislature activities. 11. The issue contradicts even the logic of government privatisation. The power of the public is being destroyed and the pressure of power on the private sector is being increased by beyond privatisation of the postal services that should be done with the matter and by public hands. It will put pressure on the private sector, both in violation of public interest and in administrative fees. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 The Article 11 of the Prime Postal Service Act shall be changed to Article 11 of Article (1), (2) and (3) in the form of "the cost of administrative service" of "the executive fee," (1) in the first chapter of its "5 in a thousand," and we shall propose that it be replaced as "3 in a thousand." Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Do you agree with the motion, Mr. Commission? We can't participate, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0342par0565	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0340par0566	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0343par0568	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. This bill is the law on liquidating the institution and marketing the private sector on the basis of the restructuring of a hundred and seventy-three-year-old PTT (PTT). Look, when the Justice and Development Party decided to privatize an institution, I want to share with you how it acted. First, he doesn't invest in the institution he's considering privatizing, then he abandons the institution's physical state and service presentation to his own destiny. In fact, in the meantime, he's taking his own followers into the institution, causing the staff to be inflated. Later he turns around and says: "Look, this institution is a hump on the back of the state, this institution is cumbersome, its quality of service is inadequate, it is not competitive. " Thus, he manages to create public opinion with a perception that would reduce it to the incompetence of the public system. What should we do then? After that, he says: "Let's privatize this institution on the basis of increasing competition and efficiency. In 1995, you divided the PTT (PTT) and formed the Turkish TELEKOM Ash. In 2005, you sold this institution for a few years, in exchange for profit, and therefore made Turkey one of the most expensive countries in the world in the field of telephones and Internet. Your government has repeatedly repeated similar privatisations. In TECEL, in PETKIM, in Turkish TELECOM, I want to share what you've done: the rights of the workers in these privatisation institutions have been restricted. There have been firings on the grounds of redundancy. The employees were forced to retire. Long hours were brought in and an unsecured working environment was created. It also caused subcontractorship on the pretext of subsidizing the services cheaper. Now, without being bored, you're not calling it specialization, you're calling it emancipation, you're calling it healing, you're calling it correction. Look, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question: at what status do the staff of this PTT Institute that you're trying to create, can you answer me, can you inform the public? They are not bound by the Law of State Officers No. 657, they are not bound by the chartered staff of Law 399, they are not partially subject to Law 4857. So, what status do they apply to? On one hand, you say: "We remove obstacles in the fields of workers and workers, trade unions, and allow them to be organized." I ask you, Mr. Minister: What union do PTT employees have the right to organize in? Is it the government's union, the labor union, or will it remain uncertain? Look, there are hundreds of complaints at this point. Our fellow civil servants, citizens, are taking the KPSS exam. There is a situation after KPSS: If this law is passed in this PTT application, it is not possible for the staff to transfer to another institution, even if it has won the KPSS exam, at a point where you call it an administrative service contract, which is not on the basis of any law, which is contrary to the Constitution. But even though he has the right to transfer to another institution with a right earned by KPSS at the courthouse or at any institution, that right is not possible for you to create a new law. On the one hand, you're saying: "We're removing the pressure on the organization, let everyone join the union they want." We were with the Pakima workers last weekend. Pakya Turkey has a monopoly, and there is no other manufacturer. 14 employees were thrown out because they were union. Not government officials, not Ministry, not Department of Labor, not bureaucrats, not one of them looking for a settlement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you resent the removal of the union rights of 14 of our citizens? I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0344par0578	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following Article 11 of the 452 Orders Numbered Mail Service Bill be replaced by 3 percent in the 1st article of the 11th Amendment. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0345par0586	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0344par0587	Mr. Günal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0346par0588	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all at this hour of the night. I'm curious about one thing from the beginning, Mr. Secretary, but he can still speak for the government, Mr. General Manager, as long as I can remember. What couldn't Mr. Tural do with this current law, and you're making an anonymous company? Sir, I've looked at the motive here, and there's a lot of contemporary, blah, blah, blah, blah, so without the name of the company, couldn't PTT do the service? So there's a reason that, you see, there's no European Union left in the European Union? For God's sake, please tell us properly: "My brother, we're privatizing this too, we're doing it indirectly, we're doing it in the next phase." Say, "Save us, for God's sake." You mean the European Union. What country do you have, Mr. General Manager, Mr. Secretary? There are four countries. Argentina, which is not a member of the European Union, is a re-enlarged PTT service. So what are you trying to do? Isn't PTT serving now, friends, not PTT with the current law? Then how many years have you been holding him if he can't?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0347par0591	He's giving it better.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0346par0592	Yeah, how's he doing better? I'm telling you, look, tell me. You call it integration into the European Union, there are two countries of the European Union, and they're not exactly like us. I'm saying Argentina got it back, re-enlarged it. Tell me if you know, whoever gives you better... you're not gonna talk like that. I'm looking at it from here. Here, we have the number of countries that are members of the International Postal Union. How many of these do they do here as a private sector? There are more than 160 countries, as far as I know. In any of these, outside of these four countries, the postal services are not given by the private sector. So, now, let's not fool each other here, fellas. Here PTT's dealing with things that aren't about him. Well, leave it, you're saying we're gonna privatize it. Now, look, there's an oxymoron here, folks. In 2003, before Mr. General Manager, he made a sign called PTT Bank. Yeah, there's no permit, there's no permit, you can't do that. He said, "You've applied again." You came up with a formula, a formula, a formula for oppression, cruelty. What was that? Sir, don't let him be a banker, but keep his name as a bank. And then -- after a while, we forced the law here, we took matter -- it was like an agent for banks. Now, you're saying that we're going to privatize banks, and today the Prime Minister is saying that once in a while, Mr. Arinc is saying that he's going to bang the 57th government, but the missing information is, is false information. I'm not saying any more, but the next step might be heavy. Well, now you're taking all of this into the privatisation pool, and PTT banking on the other side... what a diet, what a sauerkraut! Is that a thing? He's here now, I'm looking here -- I'm curious, Minister, if friends can answer -- 6.3 in 2010; 7.5 million in 2011. It's from Western Union services, so it's a regular wire transfer. Now, banking is a separate business; this cargo, mail, telegraph service is another business, my friends. And I'm warning you, Mr. General Manager, because from 2008 to 2011, the Accounting and Finance Agency was not inspected, and I don't know if they were in 2012, but they didn't have inspections of all of the General Directorate's financial accounts. I'm asking one more question: the wire transfer system called Western Union is the world's largest method of laundering money -- the month before we passed the law -- you know, the most difficult to track on the financing of terrorism -- is a small-scale wire transfer from individual to individual. In the Gulf countries, they call it the air. It's the equivalent of the air we've got. Now, you're not gonna jump into anything, you don't have an employee, you don't have the talent, you don't have the man to do it. Now, with the law we've brought here, we're putting them in a freaky model. So it's not an officer, it's not a worker, it's not a contract pattern; it's connected in one way, it's connected in the other, it's encouraged and retired... So, if there is, bring us directly to the private sector, like you did in the Stock Exchange in Istanbul, Inc., and call us the private sector. Then you'll take responsibility, you'll pay the bill, my friends. So let's not show our ears from above. The services of the post are obvious, and in many countries around the world, they're still being carried out by public hand, except for four countries, and even though it's not an anonymous company, it should continue its traditional services by the hands of the state, he says.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0348par0597	Mr. Günal, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 11 is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill, which has been discussed, shall be replaced in the following way. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Cemalettin Lightning The ten per cent (five per cent) of the capital of a corporate person with a license document, or more, directly or indirectly, is subject to the institution's approval of the share of the share, which results from the adoption of a partner's share by a real or corporate person, and the adoption of a partner's share over 10 per cent of the corporate equity capital, and/or/or of a partner's share below the above, regardless of the above-designed share of the share of the company's partnership structure. "This sentence is also valid if it is granted the right to vote." "Even though there is no transfer of stock, the removal of concession facilities or privileges on existing shares is subject to approval regardless of the proportional limits predicted in the first joke." "The firm may ask for additional information and documents from real or corporate people who are in the stock exchange that it needs during review and evaluation for approval." Now that the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process the motions together. I'm going to make a separate promise or I'm going to read the reasons for the motions. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 12 of the Postal Services Act be removed from the text of the law. Aykut Erdoğdu Haluk Eyidoğan Turgay Develi The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Secret by Darayya Leader Property One Do you agree with the same motions as the last ones read, Mr. Commission? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0349par0627	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0348par0628	Let's get someone's alibi checked out. The purpose of the bill is subcontractorisation and privatisation. The fact that the main public service, the postal service, will be available will result in high costs in receiving services from the citizen in which he is in power distribution services. The same way it will bring great losses to the employee. A new privatisation in an environment where the worker already has limited rights will bring up the loss of the rights earned, as well as the business security issue. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. Mr. Akar, are you going to talk? Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0350par0635	Mr. President, valuable MPs, privatisation, liberalisation, we continue. In my earlier speech, I briefly tried to explain what was expected of privatisations. Here, what did we say? We called it a monopoly removal, boosting competition, quality service and employment, and in the meantime, I tried to briefly explain what happened to the employees at Candy Chick when I gave an example of employment. Of course, my city is a busy city, which is the industrial capital of Turkey, and there are thousands of workers working in heavy labor. Just now, again, our friend, the Alderman, gave us an example of Pakmaya here. Yes, Pakmaya is one of three companies in the world that produce three yeast plants in Turkey, dry and old yeasts. He exports to about 120 countries. Every time an organizational study is conducted in this Pakmaya, the employer puts his fellow workers at the door. That's what it was like ten years ago, and that's what happened 20 years ago, and that's what's happening today. For 20 years, this Parliament has not been able to remove these problems in front of the organization, and has not been able to remove them for ten years. The couple you made on September 12th couldn't even remove the union rights referendum because all the laws you've passed are in favor of capital and employer. One law, defending the right to work, guaranteeing their labor, did not pass through this council stand, through this House. Now he has put out six men, and four men in Izmir, and four others in another factory, because they are trying to organize. While the employer was doing these things, I asked the Labour Minister to grant me something, and while he was speaking from this bench again, he said he would grant me that request as well. Yes, the Minister of Labor sent an inspector to this company, my friends. The inspector he sent to this company met with the citizens appointed by the employer during his meeting there. Do you know what the employer does? If the father and son work in the same factory, he says to the father: "Do not let your son participate in the organizational work. I'll fire your son, including you. If a worker is a reference, the employer calls his nephew, his brother, and his relatives. I will cast out your brother, and I will cast out your nephew, and I will cast you out. Why? It's because he's doing an organizational study, asking for union rights. It doesn't end with this. There he gives bonuses, two gold coins, and coals to workers who support him, who support his employer, who have never been, never been, never been. Now, I'm going to ask the Minister of Labor -- he's not here, but he'll probably hear my voice -- once again, ask the inspector you sent him, for God's sake. Ask him if he's seen these workers who've been laid off, who've been lying at the door for a month, or the union representatives who've been working on the organizational work, or the friends the union has assigned there. I'm from here to the city hall. You know, the citizens who were fired from that job were staying in the bus stops that the Metropolitan Municipality in front of the factory had used for the buses, and the Metropolitan City City pulled that stop out of there. The employer shut down his parking lot. The Bigeli Metropolitan City took out the bus stop so that these citizens wouldn't get the rights. That's where Turkey comes in. Well, we privatize PTT, we privatize State Railways, we privatize TIPRASH, we privatize TELEKOM, I think we privatize ordinary-electric distribution companies. You sold countless things, privatized them. You've done $40 billion in privatisation, and you're bragging about it. Now I'm asking you: is there an investment that you can call $40 billion that we've done in the next term, and we're privatizing it? I'm afraid not. Now, what is the point of bringing the country in as a result? There's unemployment. You see, the unemployment rate in college graduates sets a European record. Besides, there's a high unemployment rate in people outside of college, but there's another problem in my town; there's a problem with people getting fired. After a certain age, when you're 40 or 45 years old, the private sector gets laid off because it can't get the efficiency, because it can't get the performance. He's got ten years to retire, 15 years to go. He's trying to get by on six months of unemployment insurance. And then no employer accepts 40-45-year-old people who are this old. These people can't bring bread to their homes, they can't use social support funds, they can't get services from hospitals. I've made a motion for a law on this, about people who've had their day, who are looking forward to it. I hope you'll support this proposal of law, we'll compensate for these people's victims. I offer you love and respect.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0351par0644	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment to the 12th article of the Common 452 Sorted Postal Services Act shall be changed in the following manner. You've brought lightning and friends [[1]] The ten per cent (five per cent) of the capital of a corporate person with a license document, or more, directly or indirectly, is subject to the institution's approval of the share of the share, which results from the adoption of a partner's share by a real or corporate person, and the adoption of a partner's share over 10 per cent of the corporate equity capital, and/or/or of a partner's share below the above, regardless of the above-designed share of the share of the company's partnership structure. This sentence also applies if it is granted the right to vote. Even if there is no transfer of stock, the removal of concession facilities or privileges on existing shares is subject to approval regardless of the proportional limits predicted in the first joke. The Court can ask for further information and documents from real or legal individuals who are part of the share transfer. Do you agree with the commission motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0352par0659	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0353par0660	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0351par0661	Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0354par0663	Mr. President, my time here was up before the esteemed MPs could say exactly what I wanted to say. So, I made a promise again about this substance. I hereby salute you all again. Now, what I wanted to say, dear lawmakers, was that what we wanted to say a while ago, is that if we were to make these laws, how our citizens were affected by these laws, how they were affected by the cost of life, whether they were reflected in our citizens, or whether they were taking the weights of life over them, we would have to look at them, but if we were to market all the services here, we would send them as a burden on the citizens, if we were to send them as a burden on the citizens. I mean, there is a flaw here. And every law that comes out of this marketing economy is a financial liability to the citizens. And the government, I'm afraid, is away from being a social state at that time. Look, we've got the 2/B Act here. We took it out to make money for the government. As I've just stated, citizens are in no condition to pay. Not everyone does walks and stuff for nothing. In that sense, I think we should consider their situation as we market these laws, as well as the citizens'. You know, the Privatisation Act was issued in 1987 during the late Ozal, but by 2002, the state's income was around $8 billion without privatisation until the AKP came to power. I'm guessing between 2002 and 2013, this privatisation revenue is close to $50 billion. This, I think, is a burden on the citizens, as a result of the income obtained by these privatisation laws, only by enforcing these laws. I'd also like to point out that Mr. Prime Minister in the first place, a few moments ago, Mr. Group Vice President, we received a lot of votes. So, we've been in power for ten years, and we're doing a great service for people. What's happening to the opposition, why is he objecting to us, making motions? There's an attitude, understanding. It's always coming up. While the Prime Minister is saying this, he has brutally criticised past governments for their wrongdoing, as well as the established republic's governments for their wrongdoing. But I would also like to remind Mr. Prime Minister and AKP MP, our friend, the deputy leader of the group, that we need to know that the governments, the governments who were established here, have all come with a lot of votes, so they have come to power. There is no other kind of power in democracies. Since -- in the mouth of Mr. Prime Minister -- they're wrong, they're incomplete, the country is behind, they can't do things, isn't that a possibility for the AKP? I mean, getting a lot of votes is enough to be power, but enough to do the right thing? This place is undisputed. I think we need to discuss this. I'd like to remind my AKP friends of that from here to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0355par0667	People know, he votes every time.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0354par0668	Excuse me?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0355par0669	These people argue, and they vote every time.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0354par0670	He discussed them and voted for them, sir. While they were in power here, when the government was in the government, they were argued, and eventually they get the right to rule, which is the government that gets a lot of votes, but if those in power had always done it right, if those in power had always done it right, the country wouldn't have been in this situation. That's what I'm trying to say. So take that into consideration. Take a look at yourself. So I'd like to say, listen to some more criticism from the opposition. That's all I had to say. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0674	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0357par0676	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0358par0677	It's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0678	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0357par0679	There are 55 people, Mr. President. If they call this one...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0358par0680	No, Mr. President, not after we put it to the vote.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0681	You're late. The motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes:
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0684	Mr. President, look, when the matter is discussed, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0360par0685	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0686	Not during the interview, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0687	Now, when you ask me to pick it up again...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0688	Those who agreed... I said, you said it after the vote was voted. If you want, we'll do it while we vote.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0689	Look, when you asked me, I thought there were 55 people here...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0690	Mr. Günal, just a moment.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0691	There were 55 of them.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0692	Just a moment, sir. Listen first. We see 55. We see 3 people.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0693	Did I say enough to make a decision?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0694	You didn't, you said after... those who agreed.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0695	Ask friends.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0696	Let's ask him, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0697	Mustafa Elitaş won't say, I will.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0698	You said after... those who agreed. Now I'm going to ask for the number of decisions in the matter's vote.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0700	I'll say, don't look at Mustafa Elitas. I say the decision is enough.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0701	I'm not looking at anyone. I'm doing my job here, I'm not looking at anyone.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0702	Look here, ask me if I asked you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0703	Sir... one second Mr. Günal, one second... after I said "I agree," you said "I agree" enough. But now, in the matter's vote, let's just call the number. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing to be ashamed of.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0704	All right, call 'em in. Don't be so judgmental. Don't look at Elitaş, look at us, look at us!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0705	Sir, I submit the 12th article to your votes, and I will seek the sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0706	How many are there, tell me! Tell me, how many are there? How many are there, tell me!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0707	Matter accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0709	Tell me, how many are there? Tell me!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0356par0710	There's a motion above Article 13 that I'm reading...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0359par0711	How many members are there, clerks?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0361par0712	There's 150 of them. None of your business! [[AK PARTY and MHP rows of noise]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Postal Services Act be removed from the text of the law. Aykut Erdoğdu Haluk Eyidoğan Turgay Develi
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0362par0720	Count again, count again. If there is, I'll give you my resignation.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0721	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0362par0722	Count it now, count it. I'll give you my resignation, count it! It was 55, it was 75. So what?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0723	There's no need to resign. People are counting here, and we said, "Okay." Sit down, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0362par0724	Shame, shame! Not like this.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0725	Please, Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0362par0726	Come on, then. Don't sit there, come and sit in line.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0728	Wait a second, guys...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0362par0729	Sit here and listen.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0730	Mr. Günal, if you please, just a moment...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0364par0731	Mr. President, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0732	Guys, calm down, calm down. (AK PARTY AND MHP RUMBLING) Please... please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0365par0733	You're disturbing the peace of the House, Mr. President. There's no need for that. You're the one who's stretching the coven. There's no need for that.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0734	It's got nothing to do with me. Everyone's looking here.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0366par0735	There are two clerks here, both of them standing right here.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0736	Commission, do you accept the motion, sir? We don't accept it, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0367par0739	We don't accept it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0740	Whose motion was it?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0368par0741	Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0742	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0369par0743	It's a shame! Two clerks sitting there, looking at it: there is.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0744	Don't do that, don't do that.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0369par0745	How many are there? And I counted 55, and I counted ten, and 75, and I put ten on it for you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0746	Don't do that. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0370par0747	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, from where we left off...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0369par0748	Shame! That's not how it works.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0363par0749	There's no shame in it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0371par0751	We're moving on. We're counting the benefits that privatisation has brought to this country. Now it's time for poverty. When I say poverty, I want to remind you that in one speech, the prime minister stated that he has increased the benefits of coal and pasta 16 times. So it's very easy to hear from the Prime Minister how many times the number of poor and helpless have increased during the 11 years of AKP power. But I'm not going to give you an example. I'd like to tell you about that trip we went on last week with 16 MPs to Urbana. 13 AKP lawmakers, 2 CHPs and 1 MP BYP, we organised a trip to Urban Ceylanpınar, or TEGYM land as the CIT Commission. On this trip, we went there to solve the problem of the nomads there and to understand their problems in their place. Now, dear friends, Şanliurfa, yes; when we look at Şanlıurfa, it's an area of people with great land and agriculture. However, nomads live on this TIGEM land, living in a land of 1,750,000 acres. There are about 23 villages. We've been to one of these 23 villages. My friends are here. In two and a half hours, we could reach the village in about a square mile of dust. When we reach the village, there is no mosque in this village. I started with him first because you took care of him the most.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0372par0756	Come on, build a mosque there.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0371par0757	No school, no home.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0372par0758	Let's do it in school.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0371par0759	There's no animal shelter, and there's no water, and there's no electricity. This isn't the village we went to. But in 70 percent of 23 villages, 80 percent of them are. The children beg, we want to be human. They say, "We want to read." They say, "We want to serve the government." They say. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Please don't interrupt me, listen, understand what Turkey has become. Here, in 23 villages, there are 660 households, 660 households identified, and 4,500 people live in these 660 houses. 4,500 people live on livestock on this TIGEM land. I want you to go and see it. You know, we helped out of the country. These are the things that we have done, and these are the things that we have done. Go, find those people, and help them. You promised in 2007 that we would give you land. And you said, "If the AKP votes in these elections -- that's what the citizen says, in these 23 villages with full votes -- we'll give you land. We went there in 2013 and we saw that these lands were not given. We've all seen it, and my friends are here. They can confirm me if I say it differently. That's the point where you bring Turkey, that's poverty. We were talking about unemployment. I just said: university unemployed people, and then the people who were fired, the hunger problem in Turkey, the problem of not getting along in Turkey. Guys, one of the biggest problems is the subcontractor problem. In your time of power, the subcontractor problem has reached extreme stages. Look, there are 37 thousand people working at PTT. - General Manager's gone - 8,000 subcontractors and 23,000 people working under contract. My town -- I said -- industrial city. People who worked in my town, people who worked in PETKIM, people who worked in TÜPRAŞ, lived at the level of prosperity, on the edge of hunger set by the government and the TİKİK, living a prosperous life in the past. In factories where their father's grandfather retired, his children now work as subcontractors for $774. You know, daddies, what are grandpas doing in my town? Fathers and grandfathers work in my town as taxi drivers at taxi stops. When I go and ask you, why do you work here? Don't think that the American is going to Hawaii like a German retiree, or they're going to a resort in Turkey for a comfortable month, and they're making a nice vacation. They work at taxi stops to take care of their children, to pay their rent, to take care of their grandchildren; see this, my friends. Yes, this nation is voting for you, voting for 52 percent, but the nation has forgotten its priorities and forgotten its priorities. When this nation remembers its priority, it will give you what you need, no doubt about it. This is a situation that we call the industrial capital of Turkey. What about the situation in other parts of Turkey, the unemployment rate... do you see the empty gas tanks in the tractors of agricultural people? Do you guys know how many acres there are from agriculture? I'm telling you, please look into this, find a solution to these people's problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0373par0769	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 14th article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft proposal and the ministry's proposal, which will be offered in the form of a proposal made by the Ministry, in the second article of Article 14 of the current 452 Postal Services Law Bill. Ahmet Aydın Ahmet Arslan Smurf Ünal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the current 452 Orders of Postal Services Act be changed in the following way. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu ▪ The postages for the blind are exempt from all postal fees. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that the 14th Article of the Postal Services Act be removed from the draft text. Aykut Erdoğdu Turgay Develi Haluk Eyidoğan Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0374par0795	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0373par0796	Who will speak, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0375par0797	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0373par0798	The reason, please. 1 (One) Weight ibare replaced by 4 kg in a 14th article I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the current 452 Orders of Postal Services Act be changed in the following way. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends ▪ The postages for the blind are exempt from all postal fees. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0376par0810	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0373par0811	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0377par0812	Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0373par0813	Mr. Özensoy, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0378par0815	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to the esteemed MPs. I salute you all. I'd like to thank Mr. General Manager for correcting some of the figures in our discussion on the 6th amendment. I mean, this attention, this concern, but of course, I didn't deny any of it, but there's a slight error in the numbers, and he gave it to me in writing. Let me start by saying thank you. But now, if there's something wrong with what I'm saying, if there's an excess, they'll fix it. Look, I gave it to you as a question motion, a written question motion, and I gave it to you on 17/10/2011. It's been a year and a half, but I still haven't heard back from this written question motion. In this motion, I've asked again about these mistakes, about overpaying, especially about renting a car. 1.100 vehicles have been rented for three years from the Özdicle Food Industry and Trade Agency, known for its closeness to power, and are not paid by 30/6/2011 as of 30/2011, with a total of more than $1 million, and even higher than that, on the tax debtor list. In the previous case, the subcontractor was paid between $65 a day and $79 a month, including PTT, fuel and driver. PTT personnel are currently using chartered fleet vehicles. Although the company's employee officer, chief, teller and managers and distributors are not doing their primary tasks in Law 657, they have been declared to be working outside of their title, causing the loss of labour force to run these vehicles, while the state's employees are driving between $2,800 and $3,500. According to this, did the PTT General Directorate provide collateral for Ford Autosan for the Selficle Food Industry and Trade Inc? So even though PTT didn't show it, that company made it look like collateral. When PTT personnel are being used as drivers for these vehicles and the fuel costs are being covered by PTT, why did they go to rent them through the Selficle Food Industry and Trade Agency? It's the PTT that pays. Why didn't PTT buy this fleet, even though the transmitter was paid enough to buy the fleet? Again, according to Article 457 of State Officers Act 657, no officer can be employed outside his class and below his rank in his class. With what legal basis, such distributors as officer, chief, teller, manager are employed as drivers? I've made a motion here to ask what's the profit of PTT, what's the advantage of Özdicle Foods and Trade Industry. I mean, I'm saying that there's a firm here that's seriously on the tax list, so it's corruption, but there's no answer. And I'm also telling you the amount of bids that have been given, obviously, so even though I've expressed the numbers here, I haven't received an answer to this question motion. Now, I'm going to repeat this motion here: when I asked this Özdicle (O.T.T.T. Commission) again as a question, it was stated that it was not on the list of faceless people, but I'm prepared to bring it and give it to PTT. In such a case, in the month before the election, in May 2011, all delivery vehicles across Turkey were brought to the area where Mr. Transport Minister was located, where the fleet was introduced -- a demonstration -- and then it was sent back to its fields with drivers, and there were accidents on the road, and they requested officers who were using those accidents. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0379par0823	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0380par0824	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0379par0825	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... Yeah, there's a disagreement, we'll vote with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft proposal and the ministry's proposal, which will be offered in the form of a proposal made by the Ministry, in the second article of Article 14 of the current 452 Postal Services Law Bill. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends The commission... We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Your Majesty...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0381par0838	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0379par0839	I'm reading the reason: This change was intended to determine the scope of the universal postal service, before the Ministry's proposal, to be taken away from the institution's proposal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose that Article 15 of the Postal Service Act (1) (a) be replaced in the form of 2... per cent......... one hundredth................................................................................................. İlhan Demirözük Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar İdris Star Sakine Öz Erdal Aksunger Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 15th article of the 452 Orders of Postal Service Law shall be changed to the 1st article of the 15th Amendment, and the addition of the 1st to the 1st amendment to the 1st article of the 1st one percent of the 1st Amendment. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Özcan Yeniçeri Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Do you agree with the commission motion? We don't agree, sir. The government...
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0382par0862	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0379par0863	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0383par0865	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, now, you're speaking loudly. You say. You'll sleep if we don't talk. I'll warn you for him. Now, first of all, you have to put forward a basic idea of what you need from the top to the bottom and what you want to do with PTT, because if your exit is wrong, your destination will also be wrong. How did you find it uncomfortable? First you sold the T (TTT), then you made additional additions to it, and then you took it to different dimensions and reduced it to different dimensions. Now, if that's the case, what's the point of keeping it in its own nature when it's possible to continue it in its own way, and what's the point of bringing it to another dimension, another legal identity with a new bill right now? And you need to ask the question. If, if it was so necessary, why have you waited 12 years? If it was necessary, necessary, event, profitability, rationality, all of which you wanted to do, then why didn't you do it before, and you waited until now; for 12 years you let it work in a rational, irrational, inefficient, inefficient way? That's the question, Mr. Secretary. Now, the power actually did not honor the opinion of employees and parties, other Unional and NGOs involved in bringing in this law, which has corporateised the PTT. That's democracy, there's democracy if there's participation, there's democracy if there's people working in management. If you haven't asked the union, if you haven't respected his opinions and opinions, there is no democracy; it's a democracy of words, so-called democracy. So I'd like to stress that you really need to act like democrats, not like this, but as industrial democracy, to bring the workers in, to work with respect to their views. The AKP does not give the employees a say in matters that concern their destiny, as is the case with everything else. The people who work with a law down the hill have been confronted, and this law is a law imposed on them as such. With this law, PTT will go, PTT will come under special legal provisions. That would raise a lot of social problems. This process will bring us to a position that will result in subcontractorization and natural privatisation. If the bill becomes legal, it will create an army of employees without job guarantees. No matter what anyone says, the workers will lose a great deal of their rights. The employees' future will be placed between the executives and most of the politicians' two lips. The term of staffed personnel will end, the term of contract personnel will begin. The employees will be encouraged to retire and all sorts of pressure to leave the institution will be brought into effect. Those who leave will not be replaced by the new company, but by those who fit AKP's needs. After all, employees will be transferred to a contractual employment system with no guarantees. The main feature of AKP power is that it cashes out every aspect of a citizen's life; you're very successful, I celebrate. According to the AKP mentality, all things are measured in money - including human -- in the nail. You have changed military service with the Bedellis, the HES, the above-ground waters, the clocks, and the subterranean waters, and the land used by the citizens by 2/B.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0384par0872	Hodja, you've also served as a high-priced soldier during the MHP period.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0383par0873	The AKP, which has cashed in on everything that comes to mind, has confronted us with an arrangement against citizens in favor of multinational corporations. This bill, which has made PTT (PTT) a company, also points to such a process. The AKP's ruling Republic has a huge appetite and lust for selling its institutions and institutions; this is another aspect of the work. Without calling it domestic, foreign, strategic, life-threatening, historical institutions are being sold for a few years' income. The PTT, which has served this nation for two centuries, has been privatized in a place where it can be rationalized by an autonomous structure. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now we're making it a more efficient, efficient and profitable institution. The historical institutions have been dispossessed one by one.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0385par0877	Turn up the president's voice, Mayor!
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0383par0878	That's why the structure of the institutions is being changed first.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0386par0879	Teacher, time is up. Give it to me in writing.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0383par0880	You owe me 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0386par0881	Okay, that's right. Mr. President, that's right, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0383par0882	After that, a process is launched that creates the substructure of selling to non-compulsive companies, saying that they can't compete with the private sector, that they're losing. But institutions thrive in the same way as communities do, and they flourish in the same way. Foundations don't have natures, they have dates. PTT is also involved in the AKP's historic and memoryless practices. Unhistoric is also unfortunate. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] You keep changing it, you keep transforming it, depending on what changes it or changes it. You're either Trotsky, like you're bringing in something, and you're always bringing in the opposite of what you brought in today tomorrow. I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0387par0889	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Postal Service Act (1) (a) be changed into 1.1% of the terms of the article (a). Haydar Akar and his friends Do you agree with the commission motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0388par0897	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit07spe0387par0898	I'm reading the reason: Two per cent of the company's net sales revenue from the company's mail service, which is specified in the net sales section of its service providers, "the income of the global postal service is going to be paid to the Ministry. The universal postal service revenue will be paid for the cost of the public's economic and social protection, for the cost of postal services provided under universal postal service, for free or for low prices. In Article 22 of Postal Law 5584, the following services were to be sent from the Ministry of Health to the same weights and letters sent by doctors from military schools, orphan boarding schools, and the school of Darşafaka, and five per thousand per cent of the postage of soldiers and gendarmes to Corporalia, which amounted to 100 grams of letters and letters of domestic name, cards, cards, family and relatives, to whom the family and relatives had spoken about, to the same weight, and to the ministry of the Ministry of Health, which was to be sent to the post by doctors and to inform of infectious diseases. In the Bill of Laws, the mail shipments, which will be subject to universal postal services, are taken up to two kilograms [20 kg] of parcels and shipments of paper and paper printed on paper and visually impaired writings, but it is expected to be taken from companies operating in the sector, leaving the institution's financing open to the regulatory process, as well as to which parts of the society are in need of economic and social protection. Companies operating in the sector work with an average of 10 per cent profit and even cost PTT box and cargo services at 86 per cent starting in 2009. The universal postal service revenue, which the service providers will pay at 2 per cent of the net sales rate they receive from postal services, leads companies who want to keep their profit to up their postal service prices by about 25 per cent. In other words, the global postal service revenue, which companies will pay 2 per cent of the net sales revenue they receive from postal services, results in consumer abuse, rising by about 25% of the postal service prices. In this respect, changing universal mail service revenue to "1 per cent" will ensure rational determination of those in need of protection, both for free or for low cost, as part of the universal mail service service, as well as for the economic abuse of consumers who use the mail service, and thus the loss of well-being. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-07sit08spe0387par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 452 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Under the decision taken, we will discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, Wednesday (May 8th 2013), at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (May 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
