tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 123°th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Pain MP Ekrem Çelebi, who wants to talk about Pain's problems. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Tomorrow, June 21, 2013, with our EC PARTY vice president and a group of vice presidents, together with an AK PARTI MP, hopefully, we will first move to our village of Mush, then to our province of Ağrı, then to join the Erzurum rally -- God willing -- on Friday. Of course, there's been a trip here, especially before. This trip was taken to the Southeast Anatolian region. This time, again, we're going to take this tour of the solution process to our provinces of Mud and Pain. In that sense, I salute you all again. I am certain that the fine men of Pain, and the beautiful men of Pain, and the people of Abishan, and the people of Kösedağ, and Aladağ, and the people of East-white, and the sons of Hamur, and the sons of Diyadin, and the braves of Stonedchay, and the sons of Tutak, and the men of Pain, who are so cold, and the men of Pain, shall press our deputies with very hot blood. In this sense, on Saturday, we invite our Patnos, especially our prisoner, our Hamur, our Centre for Pain, our Elezkirt, our Stonyt, our Diyadin, the people in our East-White Seat, to be with our deputies, to send my greetings and respects to our headquarters. Of course, especially with the education of our Prime Minister, I'm here to thank his counterparts. They've given us a lot of support in education. Previously, we, you know, in our Ağrı district, had one education faculty, but together with 2007, our University of Pain, Ibrahim Chechen University of Ağrı. However, our first goal, first of all, is to increase their many parts of the faculty at the Pain Center. And then on Saturday -- if God doesn't deliver grief -- we'll lay the foundation for Sultan Alparslan School in Patnos district of Ağrı İbrahim Chechn University. Again, this year, two years of high school in Elezkirt, which was thought to be completed in 2013 by one of our businessmen; and again in July 2013, we are thinking of opening our two-year high school in Diyadin, where we will lay the foundation of our two-year high schools; and also a two-year university in East-white, where a businessman will lay the foundation in 2013, if God does not give us a man, a sorrow, a two-year university. Dear lawmakers, what was done in our province, especially after the EC PARTY government took over, I'd like to present them to you here as well. In our city center of pain, before -- there were nearly 106 thousand populations of the first center -- all of which were drinking well water. After our Prime Minister's visit to the province of Ağrı, until 2045, one printer dam was built that could cover the drinking water of Ağrı. It is currently in operation. Again, we have one terminal completed in 2013, which we will launch within one or two months of Allah's permission. I especially want to address the precious Painful here: it was years ago, our Street of Papers, look, it couldn't be opened. In 2011, when Prime Minister Ağrı arrived at the city centre, we had a directive; for the first time, we had one street, which was nationalized by the hands of the state in a province. It's all over our street, it's being paved right now, and if God doesn't give us any grief, we'll have it in service within a month. Again, the urban transformation, which we, especially at the Ağrı headquarters -- again, according to our Prime Minister's instructions -- will be in Eastern White Sea in 2013. In 2013, we, especially Patnos, have over 4,000 acres of urban transformation in our Yenimahalle. And this one, if my Lord doesn't give me a mani, if he doesn't give me grief, in July -- and Patnos is in them -- we have the provinces that are going to be torn down on live air, and this one is Patnos. In particular, in the context of urban transformation, the Central Crimes Center, which has been handed over so far at the centre of Pain, has been assigned to 504 homes, 224/ for the poor, and one trading centre has been delivered and delivered to them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I was going to say something especially about our Eylekirt, but since I'm done talking... I thank you very much, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0004par0029	What did you do to Bayburt, Bayburt? You've always done it to Pain.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0005par0030	All the money that comes to the pain, you send it to Patnos.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0003par0031	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı who wants to speak about Mersin's problems. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0006par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise to you about the problems of our Mersin. I salute all lawmakers who have not watched Mersin be punished or slaughtered. Dear friends, we can collect Mersin's problems in three main topics: 1) The problems caused by AKP governments. 2) The problems that AKP governments cannot solve. 3) Problems with the understanding of democracy of AKP governments. Environmental problems are at the top of the problems caused by AKP governments. Mersin is like a city out of heaven. However, in your ten years of power, Mersin's winter air is among the dirtiest cities. You make people breathe poison in Mersin. You're trying to pour acid on Mersin by building a sulfuric acid factory for the boilerd ones, and you're building nuclear plants, thermal plants, cement factories for the best coves in the west. What in God's name is Mersin's crime? Does not one of the AKP's Mersin MPs stand up and object to any of this? As if that wasn't enough, you're making an illegal port against international agreements in a paradise cove like Greenova's. You didn't hear wrong. You're building that port illegally, even though there's an article in that harbor that says it can't be built by your Ministry. Does a government do business as a fugitive? Unfortunately, he does, which suits the AKP. And when we try to talk about it, you blame us without shame, because they're against the economy, they're against development. Instead, we want to create the model of a friendly economy with the environment in Mersin, without slaughtering the environment, and apply it to all of Turkey. We think Mersin should be the capital of the environmentally friendly economy. The second most important problem that hurts people is poverty and unemployment in Mersin, a place like Mersin. Unfortunately, Mersin was ranked at the top of your ranks in your rule of unemployment. The architect of this order is your incompetent, unpredictable, delusional foreign policy, so our trade with the Middle East is over. Depending on this, farmers, merchants and other manufacturers living in Mersin have become miserable. While the war was in Syria, it was brought to our country because of you. The people of Syria, whom they know as a brother, are now anxious, do not want to experience the new Reyhanian events. Secondly, I'm going to talk about the problems you promised to solve and the problems you didn't solve for Mersin. The people of Mersin were waiting for railway transport to be integrated into the modernisation of naval transport; because of you, the dream of becoming a logistical center has failed. But what did you do? Unmorally, you said to the businessmen who came to you, to the industrialists and to the people of Mersin, to change the mayor, then come to me. Our ports and customs in Mersin are unfortunately referred to by arms trafficking rather than by trade. Mersin expects investment to become a tourist zone and diversify his economy. You were going to make Mersin Dubai, what has Mersin become! You sold hope, and now you have no hope to sell it. And thirdly, I want to talk about problems that arise with the understanding of democracy of AKP governments. The bottom line of this problem is your practices, dear friends, which have turned to the infertility and authoritarian regime of your understanding of democracy. This painting, like all over the country, has been a problem in Mersin, unfortunately. Police suddenly stopped violence in Mersin during support meetings for the travel resistance. It's beautiful. We looked into the cause, and it turns out that because of the Mediterranean Games, it's to keep our image on the outside intact. Believe me, there have been no police in Mersin for ten days, thousands of people walking, no windows coming down, no frames coming down, no stones being thrown down. Everyone needs to learn from here. The police came in last night, they interfered again, things happened again. Look, I mean, there's some very important sociological lessons here, and everyone needs to take these sociological lessons. You also abused the Mediterranean Games. We have invested a lot in Mersin. You said, "We have invested a lot in Mersin. In return for the facilities that were built, you gave Tofik Sırrı Gür Stadium to make it a mall." I mean, you tried to get a 1 and a 5 and you tricked the public. There is no end of abuse; to show off, at 5:30 p.m. today, you take private planes from Ankara, and you take private planes from Istanbul. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, you try to lead the multitudes to Mersin, and show off with the money of the people.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0007par0048	Say thank you! There are Mediterranean Games in Mersin, say thank you!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0006par0049	Shamelessly... there is a statement from your minister: "Yes, we have blocked the tickets, but we are waiting for those who can't come to the opening to close." He mocked the public beyond the limits of discipline. I condemn him and your government from here.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0008par0051	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Off the agenda... [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Well, friends...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0009par0055	Today, as Congressman of Mersin, you should be content, happy.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0008par0056	Yes, please...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0010par0057	Did you see what was done?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0011par0058	Are you going to applaud the champions? Are you going to applaud the athletes?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0012par0059	What do you say? Go talk to him on the stand.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0013par0060	Third word off the agenda...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0014par0061	To be satisfied with the Mersin Mediterranean Games is to be happy! You have to encourage the thing about him.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0013par0062	Thank you... please... please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0015par0064	Why are you doing the mall?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0013par0065	The third unregistered statement belongs to Mr. Halil Aksoy, the Ağrı MP who wants to talk about problems in prisons. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0016par0067	Are you going to applaud the champions? Are you going to applaud the athletes? Will you go there?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0017par0068	You're making a mall out of the Tuvfiq Secret Gur Stadium! You put one in, you get five!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0018par0069	That's your thanks?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0019par0070	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0017par0071	What a shame!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0019par0072	I'm sorry, Mr. Aksoy. I'll reboot your time.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0020par0074	It's a shame about the young, isn't it? They're working out.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0021par0075	Ungrateful!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0022par0076	I'm returning it. I heard the line. You're the ungrateful one!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0023par0077	Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0024par0079	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems in prisons, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0023par0081	Dear friends, please... Mr. Aksoy, please come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0024par0083	Please, sir...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0023par0084	I'm rebooting your time.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0024par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0023par0087	You're right. What do I do?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0025par0088	Is that your manners? You don't mind if I call you a thief?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0026par0089	Tell me if you know anything.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0023par0090	Guys, I'm asking you. Please...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0025par0091	I know I do. Tofik Sýrýr Gür Stadium, you've gone after him!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0026par0092	Who took it? If you do, tell me.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0025par0093	You've made a run for it!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0027par0094	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, I'm asking you. Okay... thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy. I'm rebooting your time.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0028par0097	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems in prisons. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, it's not enough to talk for five minutes, hours, not five minutes, not to mention the problems in prisons and the rights violations. However, I'm going to talk about them as much as I can about the urgent and vital issues. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, have tried to bring up illegal practices in prisons on almost every platform, human rights violations. Because today, indeed, a painful scream from Turkey's prisons -- both in these prisons and in political prisons -- is rising. In many prisons, there are abuses against children, including the authority, Shakran, Antalya, and the administration's knowledge of them. Look, there are funerals coming out of prisons. He's in severe condition, and there are a lot of patients waiting to die, but he's still not taking a concrete step. Mr. Minister of Justice has stated several times that he will show sensitivity, but this statement, unfortunately, is still not a verb. Why is there still a strong resistance in this matter, and we are having difficulty understanding it? The problem can't be explained as an obstacle to bureaucracy, and it's not very ethical to take refuge behind that excuse. It's also a problem of conscience and mentality. Currently, there are 411 prisoners in prison who are sick, arrested and convicted. About 120 of them are seriously ill and expect urgent treatment. These patients could lose their lives at any moment. We don't necessarily say, "I'm saying these people in a nail." We don't say, "Excuse me." If he's under arrest, release him, subject him to judicial control, and if he's convicted, delay his sentence until he recovers. The law is good for that, so let's not dwell on it too long, it's not too hard. I don't think the state will lose anything of its power by delaying its sentence because a prisoner cannot be treated in prison because of his terminal illness. With parliament, power and opposition, it would be very good if he was more sensitive about it. Dear MPs, you know, I've told you before: I've spent almost a third of my life in prison. As a friend, I can tell you that I often visit prisons, I listen to your complaints, I get your demands, he's in tremendous distress. Again, recently we began receiving several complaints from all prisons, especially political prisoners and convicts. In almost all prisons -- some of them intense and systematic -- prisoners and prisoners are being treated badly by the administration. Again, many legally recognised rights were taken from them by the prison administration, in other words, condemned. In summary: As a result of arbitrary practices, naked search, book restrictions, no newspapers, magazines, and books, no longer being given letters, especially Kurdish letters -- blocking the right to speak in Kurdish on the phone, lack of access to the judge, lack of health and health of food, restricting sports rights, constraining open space and conversation rights with artificial grounds, continuing in all different ways, such as cell disciplinary fines, cell punishment, non-committing social activities, punishment of open opinion, lack of access to the judge, lack of access to the judge, lack of access to the rights to the judge, and restricting the rights of the right to engage in sports and conversation. Again, an important issue is especially the forgiveness of prisons after the exiles. In exiles, prisoners and prisoners are isolated from their families, so families are also punished. The motions for transfers against this are in no way taken into account. The exile of a family member and family member of Ağrı....to Tekirdağ....is not a very conscientious thing to do. Again, another complaint is that Turkey is the case of foreign national prisoners staying in prisons. They're completely isolated, you have to consider. The process of peace and resolution does not work alone when Mr. Ocalan (Muhammad) and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) take a friendly step. In this process, described as the second stage, the government and state must play the role. A package of democracy, which immediately includes urgent and mandatory legal changes, is also useful. In the short term, public confidence must be established publicly. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0029par0109	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Congressmans, I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0030par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Forums, one of the best institutions of direct democracy, are made very alive in all the parks of Istanbul. I say to them, 'Peace be upon you.' I want to warn them today that the intervention in the Travel Park should not be done to them. Today, statements from attorneys assigned by İstanbul Bar Association for detentions during the Gezi Park activities were included in some media organs. It clearly states that those detained were forced to watch the AKP rally, people were left hungry and thirsty, telephone rights were denied, and toilet needs were not allowed to be met. I also do not recognize the superiority of the law by some police. It is also noted that they have insulted, undermined, even defamed the identity of journalists. At the prime minister's group meeting, he successfully passed the democracy exam. Are these the police he called? Who ordered these cops to watch the AKP rally, or authorized it? Will the authorities accept these reports as a criminal complaint and launch the necessary investigation? Will patriotic police, who do not want to be AKP's police, be exposed to chips in recent days?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0031par0117	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0032par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. In 1984, police school opened in Bursa Yıldırım. In 2004, when the Council of Ministers was elected, our school continued its education as the Police College of Bursa. Our Police College, which gave up its first graduates in 2009, gave up its final graduates in 2013. What I'm trying to ask is, to our Home Secretary, why is our police college being shut down? Why is the government closing our Police College after the Institute for Research on Silk Beetlery, which has not been able to open the University of Bursa for two years? Are these institutions easier to shut down? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0033par0123	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0034par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Tokat Province, Reshadiye district Drivers and Automobileists are sending faxes saying that the truck, bus, taxi, taxi shop in the country and the area are in a very difficult situation and will close contact. They say there are truckers across the country that haven't been in contact for three months, and that most of the employees during the training period in particular have suffered damage. Furthermore, the high price of diesel, the high price of tires, the higher the VAT, the higher the OTV rates, increases the cost. In addition, there are major complaints about the fact that the SRC documents, which are commercial vehicle documents, are not given by the rooms. The shops specifically want these SRC documents handed to them by themselves. They also say that transport tenders made by the county national educational directorates were made without estimate of the costs and do not want to damage them during the next training period. I'm afraid the tradesmen have a lot of problems. We're going to have to do this kind of research, and we're going to make sure that the government...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0035par0133	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0036par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. The Imralı villain's instructions were held by the AKP's incentives, the first in Erbul, and the second in Diyarbakir, the North Kurdistan Conference on Unity and Solutions in Diyarbakir. This conference means Turkey's challenge to the state, the nation and the government, which is referred to as Southeast Kurdistan. The demands expressed at the conference are: The PKK must be removed from the terrorist organisation list. Kurdish official language. Ocalan, the mass murderer, be free. Let the Kurds be given the right to determine their own destiny, including autonomy, federation, independence. Let the prisoners of the ACK be released. Let Syria and Iraq be a united structure of Kurdistan. O government, O AKP, I think you understand what this means. The process, which you started under the name "Solm" and "Peace," has been found to be a process of disbanding Turkey. Your peace process is the creation of independent, unified Kurdistan. However, you have a duty to defend the integrity of Turkey. You don't complain about these demands. It's divisive and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you don't object to the destroyers. You're supporting them by keeping quiet in the face of separatist activities. Wake up or people will warn you!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0037par0142	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0038par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, every chance we get to see that the AKP has not learned from the events of the Trip and has not made the necessary conclusions. In recent times, Mr. Arinç is trying to decide when to stop and when to walk with an approach like that. I call them dictators who look like democrats. A government that doesn't understand travel events, travel resistance, leads our country into civil war. Look, this is a very dangerous game. It's our brotherhood that's going to ruin this game, but if the government analyzes it well, then it's settled. In addition, the public has the right to know what goes on in the cabinet in democratic countries. We have a right to know the reasons why Mr. Bulent Arinc, who is in the press today, has resigned and if he has resigned. I'd like them to explain as soon as possible.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0039par0148	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0040par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. For some time, there has been talks about a process of betrayal and dissolution called the government's process of solutions. This includes the inaction and withdrawal of the separatist and destructive terrorist organization. While the terrorist organisation is being told the lies it has been withdrawn from, it is understood that the government has made commitments to the PKK from parliament and from the Turkish nation. The withdrawal has been completed these days. Unfortunately, the media has not reported that the group has committed attacks and kidnappings in Diyarbakır, Bingley, Hakkari, Şırnak. In Bingol and Diyarbakir, where we went last week, it was expressed by the officials there that the terrorists had not moved from their place. It is said that the military's base zones have been taken over by the PKK. That geography is now referred to as northern Kurdistan. Apparently, it's not the terrorist organization that's retreating, it's the state. The AKP government will surely pay the price for withdrawing the state from that region.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0039par0153	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0041par0156	The size of a language depends on how many people are spoken. About 275 million people in the world speak Turkish. Language is one of the most important tools of bridge building, cultural transmission. Turkish schools abroad carry out this mission. So, we can't thank these schools and their teachers enough to open them. The closing ceremony of the 11th Turkish Olympics was a proud sign of the Turkish flag that moved to 140 countries. It was fascinating when children of all nations sang our song and added new flavors to our clean Turkish, such as mother's milk. We've seen once again what a saint's love, breath, and spirit are capable of. It was our dream, too. What happened to you, beautiful Turkistan, the ships lying in front of Sivastopol. We cried and fell in love. The geography in our hearts is too great. Now, beautiful Turkistan is happier, Azerbaijan no longer forgets me cruel. We're looking forward to a better tomorrow. Hopefully, the flag of Turkish and Turkish will never come down. A new world is now being built in our land.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0039par0159	Mr. Özdağ, thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0042par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has faced a new event recently following the events of the Travel Park and is still having difficulty being perceived by power. Mr. Health Minister's investigation and investigation into physicians who help people who are injured, in fact, I think he's hurt himself as well as us as as as as a physician. However, it appears that the ruling party has still failed to learn about it and continues to exert pressure on it. In particular, he poses a threat that it may be a crime to support such illegal activities to doctors and nurses who work in health care. Mr. Prime Minister's statement the other day was unfortunate, in view of his constitutionally democratic rights and actions to slow down unorganised work -- this negative behavior against his colleagues. It says that for physicians, there is no human love left in them. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0043par0165	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0044par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to rising protests all over Turkey following the Gezi Park events, officials held a protest last week at Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. After these events took place, officers gathered in front of the Metropolitan Municipality at the call of TÜMBEL-SEN (TÜMEL-SEN) wanted to make a statement on the matter, but unfortunately, they were attacked by a large group, followed by a threatening message by Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçek that if they did not sign under the statement of regret, the jobs will be annulled, and they will be removed from the state office. In addition, these officers have been transferred to other bodies, exiles and massacres in Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. I'd like to say that I have once again condemned this attitude against the mayor's democratic responses to officials from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I demand that he return from this false attitude and wrong action immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0045par0172	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0046par0175	Mr. President, on the thirst of the village of Oyraca, I studied at the village at the invitation of my countrymen. After the tunnel opened under HES studies, I learned that small streams had dried up in the village, three mill-turning water sources had dried up, and the fish pond had been affected. In January 2013, the protocol between the village chief, the subsidiary and the interested firm passed the governor's approval, and such as $300,000 was invested in the Special Administration. This money needs to be used within a year. Six months have passed, but no study has yet been done. I just wanted to get your attention, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0045par0176	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Sener...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0047par0179	Mr. President, on June 17th-18th, there was a massive flood in the districts of Fatsa, Korgan, Aybastı, Kabataş, Lakeköy, Çaktopınar, and one of our citizens lost their lives. I ask for God's mercy on our fellow man. There's been serious financial damage, village roads and roads in the area are closed. I was in Kabataş County yesterday, where our biggest damage is. The water treatment plant is completely destroyed, and the county can't be watered down. Our governorship and official institutions are keen on the healing of the wounds. I thank all my fellow citizens and all the institutions who have helped me.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0045par0180	Thank you, Mr. Sener. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. During our 24th Legislature, the President of Turkey's Grand National Assembly will be elected on 4 July 2011 and his mandate will expire on 4 July 2013. According to Article 10 of the Interior Charter, the second round of the Turkish Grand National Assembly candidates will be sentenced to the Presidential Court within five days to begin ten days before the President's term for the first round expires. Therefore, the presidential nominees are due on Monday (June 24, 2013), the tenth day before the President's term expires on Friday (June 28, 2013). It will be announced to the Presidential Court by 00. It's for your information. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to use the mosques in our country for political purposes and to determine the measures taken by investigating the negative impacts on the community, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter be opened under Articles 104, 105. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 4) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Artvin]] [[Gaziantep]] 21) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 23) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] Our people put mosques first in their spiritual values. The effect of mosques on the people is important. At the top of the most controversial issues in our country is the use of religion in politics. The use of religion to politics has a negative effect on society's commitment to religious values. Using sacred values as a political tool leads to a change in the perception of religion in society, destruction, and loss of trust. The use of religious values to politics can do great damage to a religious community relationship that cannot be compensated for. In particular, it has been written that religious sites have been used as propaganda tools in recent years and have been widely included in visual media. The consolidation of the "cam" meaning "reunification" is fundamentally contradicting Islam. For the reasons presented above and determined during the study, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research to determine the measures taken by investigating mosques' negative impacts on society in accordance with Articles 104, and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Investigation of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the TBM Subcommittee 104 and 105, in order to determine the dangers of the nuclear power plant planned to be established in Mersin Akkuyu, and to investigate the region and human health harms, find solutions and create policies. With all due respect. [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 4) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] [[Hatay]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Scholarship]] [[Niğde]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] [[İzmir]] 16) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Hatay]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 19) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] [[Sinop]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] 23) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] While many countries around the world have learned from recent nuclear accidents, the decision to shut down nuclear plants has been decided by the AKP government to establish the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant in Mersin. One of the most important examples of devastating, destructive consequences of nuclear accidents is the Chernobyl accident. Despite the loss of thousands of lives and many more of them have been crippled, problems continue after 25 years. In the Chernobyl region, it has been found that children have increased thyroid cancer by 200 percent, there are significant increases in other cancer rates, birth rates are rising, people's genetic structures are degraded. Furthermore, the land that was contaminated by this accident will not be farmed for hundreds of years. Those who claim to have learned important lessons from the Chernobyl accident and have made great progress in preventing nuclear accidents have decided to shut down nuclear plants after the recent Fukushima accident. Even when there were no accidents in nuclear plants, it is known that there was a radiation surge around the plant, and the air, water, caused soil pollution, has negative effects on living life. Scientific research has shown that the risk of blood cancer has increased 2.2 times higher in children living within five kilometers of the plant without any accidents or business mistakes in a nuclear plant. Another problem for nuclear plants is that there is no known way to destroy and destroy nuclear waste, and there is no worldwide method for safe disposal of these wastes. The cooling water is also another problem when nuclear power plants that are given to the sea destabilise the marine ecosystem. It increases sea water temperature by 2-6 degrees centigrade, causing the species of the sea to become extinct and the radiation that spreads to the sea into the food chain through the fish. Marine water to be used to cool down the planned nuclear plant in Akkuyu will cause environmental disasters in the Mediterranean ecosystem. It will cause acid rain in the region's atmosphere and agricultural areas, causing heavy metal pollution. The damage caused by waste salt and minerals from the vaporization will be inevitable. As a result, it is inevitable that a research commission will be established to determine the damage done to the region, human health and environment, as a result of the fact that no energy is worth human health. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Public Contractorship Agency (BK/DG) is an administrative and financial autonomy established by Public Contracts Act 4734 and by the Public Contracts Act 4735. An independent superiors associated with the Ministry of Finance are established. The KİK has been brought up in recent news of corruption that has also been reflected in media-release organs. Reports of what happened in the CIC, which came up with the police's operation, show the extent of corruption. Ankara Security Directorate Anti-Trafficking and Organised Crime Units launched an operation against KİK on 13 February 2012, following a report that public tenders have been mixed with corruption and have been reported in favour of company owners who are unable to receive the tender. 12 people have been arrested as a result of an operation against the KİK. In fact, developments in the CIC are not new. Turkey's Progress Report, which was drafted by the European Commission in 2011, also wanted to draw attention to what happened at the KİK. The fifth chapter of the report carries the title "People's Buyings." The 5th chapter begins with the words "The People's Buyings" with limited progress in terms of general principles. In the same chapter, the purchases of the General Directorate of the Turkish Coal Company (Tİ) were specifically excluded from the scope of the Public Contraction Law. The incident, mentioned, raises doubts about tenders in the coal distribution of local governments, which are often discussed in our country. The report highlighted that the abundance of such exceptions constitutes a violation of the EU acquish. Another criticism of the report is that public tender legislation continues to differ from the EU acquisitor in various ways. Because, according to the report, the purchases of companies operating in classical sectors and in water, energy, transport and mail sectors continue to be subject to the same public tender procedures. Due to lack of a consistent legal framework, public-private sector cooperation and concessions are not transparent. This is the main problem in the chapter mentioned by the European Commission. In the 5th chapter of the report, the real crucial part is complaints about public tenders. According to this, the number of complaints filed in 2009 reached 4,281 in 2010 with an increase of 45 per cent. In other words, operations and allegations of corruption at the KİK have taken place step by step. The European Commission's 2011 Progress Report on Turkey is often expected to make legal changes in public purchases, but it is possible to see that these hopes have failed, despite over 50 changes, with the failure of the Public Contraction Act, which has not been able to intercept corruption. The public is constantly debated that the government has not taken clear steps to ensure transparency in public procurement. We have seen the latest example of the project, which the Ministry of National Education has named after it, and about 10 billion-dollar tablet purchases of computers outside the scope of the Public Contraction Act. This arrangement, which would leave a question mark on the minds, has once again brought up public tenders, which are already the biggest problem with transparency. In this context, we respectfully submit to the opening of the Constitution's 99th and TBM Institution under Articles 104 and 105, in order to assess and correct the world's specimens, in order to get the experts' views, in order to determine the problems in public procurement, especially in the tender system, which are in the way of transparency. [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 3) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 4) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] 8) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] 12) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] 24) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Artvin]] [[Gaziantep]] Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal for the 19th Amendment. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Thursday 20/6/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. In 20/6/2013, Mugla MP Nurettin Demir and 22 lawmakers allowed the Turkish Parliament to continue its activities after the deaths of workers in the Milas district of Milas, Gulluk, Turkey's Grand National Assembly (976 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in the 20/6/2013 Thursday-day jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker, Nurettin Demir, is a member of parliament. Mr. Iron, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0048par0383	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the seven business accidents we lost our lives in on June 17th and to the Parliament's research motion for the investigation of rapidly increasing business accidents throughout Turkey. Therefore, I salute your high council and yours. Business accidents became a social problem in Turkey in 2002-2013, I'm afraid. Turkey is the first in Europe in mortal business accidents, the third in the world. According to ILO data, Turkey is ranked as the 80th in the world's business security ranking. At 0.81 per cent in Canada, the annual accident rate was 3.46 per cent in Turkey, with an annual accident rate of 12.45 per cent in Turkey. According to Social Security Agency data, there have been about 200 work accidents in Turkey in one day. Again, four people die in one day, and six people fail. In the past decade, the number of workers who died in 2002 has increased by twofold from business accidents in Turkey, while the number of workers in 2002 has reached 1,700. In March alone, 55 workers have died in business accidents in Turkey, as the Istanbul Council of Labour Health and Occupational Safety announced. 15 of the workers lost their lives in construction, 6 of the metal, 6 of the mining and 5 of the chemical sector. In İstanbul, 10 workers were killed in the accident of work in the month of İstanbul and 5, İzmir and Sakarya. On 17 June 2013, there was a serious business accident in Milas County, Milas Province, Turkey. Seven people have died of methane poisoning, including six of them who went to check to remove the bad smells from the promotional station in the Tepe-Akfen Group's storage unit. It's as if the animals in the slaughterhouse were cut between seconds, and they died one after another in minutes. I ask God's mercy to our brothers and sisters who lost their lives in the work killing, and I offer my condolences to their families and relatives. It is known that the company, which operates at the workplace, has acquired drinking water and treatment facilities under the concession agreement for 35 years. The operation of this business, which has not been categorized by Guluk Municipality, has been tolerated due to the discovery of seawater involvement in the system. Despite the written and verbal objections of the residents and members of the CHP's municipal council in this area, then Justice and Development Party Gullık Mayor Yavuz Demir has blocked his ear to warnings, warnings, and warnings. This facility, built at the Bank of Provinces, was later privatized and transferred to the Tepe-Akfen Group. Unfortunately, Turkey, which is out of public control, is the first and only example. Dear lawmakers, in some cases work accidents can happen, our fellow workers may get hurt, they may even lose their lives, but what needs to be done is to minimize them, because 98 percent of business accidents and 100 percent of occupational illness can be prevented. What needs to be done is to take precautions beforehand. In Turkey, business accidents are increasing rapidly. However, this incident in our town of Rose is not considered an occupational accident; it is clear that a business murder has been committed. First of all, our fellow workers have been activated without a mask, without any protective material. Despite the fact that there is a stable environment in which it is dangerous, there are no occupational safety measures, nor the decrees of Law 6331 regarding it have been followed. Our fellow workers have been sent to their deaths. Behind are the children without a father, the mothers who mourn. It's a shame, it's a sin. Human life shouldn't be so small, it shouldn't be so cheap. It's not right to expect them from a power that doesn't care about man, from a political understanding, because the current political power, rather than protecting a person, is an understanding that prefers to sacrifice people for capital rather than for money. The AKP's government despises its citizens, crushes it, tries to suppress its democratic rights with pressure and lightning, preventing its personal freedom. I'm afraid we've seen that very clearly in the travel events. We've seen clearly how the AKP government ignores the voice of our citizens, how it tries to suppress freedom of thought, how it crushes citizens, how it attacks them, how it blinds and hurts them, even how it kills them. On the other hand, the AKP is not afraid to spend millions of liras to express the demands of democracy, freedom and guaranteed work, and to intervene in police pepper spray, but also to increase the police's power in intervention. He makes threats, Mr. Prime Minister, leaving workers and workers' health and safety in the harsh conditions of the market, leaving workers and workers alone, without property, without protection. Although it's impossible to expect such a government and such a political understanding to be sensitive to worker accidents. The Ministry of Labor creates an unsupervised working environment in closing the offices that conduct business inspections, attracting inspectors to the centre. There are some questions that need to be asked about the painful events that took place in Shula. First of all, there are questions in the Mugla region as to why only Gullik's drinking water and decontamination plant were brought down to the private firm in 2006 by the AKP-based municipality. Why was this tender held at the time, despite the council members' votes? This storage area does not contain any chimneys or vents. Yet, how and by whom is it allowed to operate? How is a non-determination operation launched and maintained? Even though this work done by the firm is in the dangerous business class, why wasn't the Department of Labor and Social Security audited prior to this terrible accident? The work of workers is not in fact the same as the work and work that is stated in business. Why is it that workers who work under dangerous jobs are allowed to work even though they do not have vocational training certificates? Because the first dead citizen, our worker, is a screw-driver; the one coming up from behind is an electrician, and then, again, they're flat workers there. Why haven't our fellow workers received vocational training? Why hasn't the risk assessment been made so far? As the Republican People's Party, we will not give up on the murder of Gulluk. We will answer to those responsible. Congressmans, especially today -- June 20, 2013 -- exactly a year ago, we worked here until morning to get out the Health and Business Safety Act. On June 30th, we were going to issue regulations on these risky workplaces, and we were going to take measures to reduce business accidents again, but we see that the bag comes as a law, especially with TESK's pressure -- the TESK giving the IMF ads. So we see that business accidents are not going to go away, that we're going to be here again in the days to come, and we're going to talk about them again. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not just a law factory. Congressmans, I'd especially like to emphasize this issue. I expect you to support this research motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0049par0398	Thank you, Mr. Iron. The second speaker on the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Mr. Mahmut Kozar, Şanlıurfa MP. Mr. Runar, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0050par0401	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal to open the Republican People's Party's Assembly investigation. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Before I begin, I would like to ask God's blessing to seven of our workers who died in this business accident at the Gulaluk district waste treatment plant in the town of Milas. Of course, from all the deaths, as a citizen, as a human being, we suffer severely, but when death is at the point of a struggle for labour, a struggle for bread, a struggle for livelihood, of course, our hearts are breaking. What I'm asking from the Board of Business Investigation as a memo that my teacher has just mentioned, is that the hand of the nine workers is a car accident, where two of them are employed, and the other seven are all dead; for reasons, perhaps in the future, it's a matter of murder. When we look at the phenomenon, we have notes of the second worker waiting for him, the plant manager following him, and the other workers, who were assigned at the decontamination plant, going down to the grill room at certain intervals to clean up the mud; again, as of the day of this incident, the worker who was assigned to clean up the mud in this grill room, had to go down to the ground, but had not been heard from, but had not been heard from. Preliminary examinations indicate that these deaths were caused by high concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and methane gas. Of course, the most important thing that bothers all of us about these findings is that there is no ventilation system in this facility. And in the interview with the employees, there were several complaints about the summer houses in the area due to the extreme smell, so the facility's windows and doors have been closed for two or three days. Of course, forensic investigations are being conducted on the subject, as well as on the work ministry's ability to chair the Employment Board, as well as on the hand of the republic's attorney general. I think it's a common responsibility for all of us to be a follower of this issue, to be clear about the issues that have been neglected and have caused the deaths of these seven workers. This incident makes it clear to us how important the law on business health and safety that we have passed in Turkey is that the positive results on the implementation of this will seriously minimise the death reports of these accidents, as well as the number of these work accidents. As you all know, Turkey has never been a country with its own law of occupational health and safety. Business health, safety issues in Turkey, as you all know, were being carried out in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Business Law. However, the Law on Business Health and Safety, which we all passed as Parliament last year, on the one hand the ILO Convention No. 155, on the other hand the ILO Convention on Occupational Health Services 161, and a law in parallel with the European Union directives. This law was published in the Official Gazette, June 30, 2012, and as of December 30, 2012, as you all know, it went into effect. In this law, employers in particular have very important obligations in this sense. Of these obligations, no doubt the most important is risk assessment. It is one of the most important obligations for employees to receive admission examinations and periodically health care, considering the health and safety risks they will be exposed to at work. Again, the establishment of the Business Health and Safety Board at workplaces, where there are 50 and more employees and more workmen, and more than six months of continuous work, is considered to be a very important issue in this law. Dear friends, as you know, before the Occupational Health and Safety Act came into effect, a very important part of Turkey's employees and businesses were, unfortunately, not covered by occupational health and safety. The Law on Health and Safety had previously had to be a workplace with more than 50 and 50 staff members to be implemented, but with that law, all businesses, all businesses, regardless of the number of employees, were obliged to carry out those responsibilities under the Employment Health and Safety Act. If the issues related to this risk assessment had been implemented not in the last year, but in the years before that, perhaps today we would be able to form a very different sentence about this event. However, at the point of risk assessment, there is also the support of the Social Security Agency at the point of receiving occupational health and security services at the treatment plant in Milas, Mugla Province, where the recent accident took place. You know, in these new classifications, the law is clearly deregulated that the Social Security Agency will provide clear support, especially at the point of risk assessment and safety specialists in very dangerous workplaces, as well as at the very dangerous classifications. Is the business accident increasing in Turkey? When we look at data like this, compared to 2007 and 2012, yes, there is an increase in occupational health and accidents in Turkey, but when you look at it in total proportionally, you see that business accidents in Turkey have decreased proportionally. In Turkey, in the last five years, you will see that there has been a serious increase in employment in Turkey in parallel with Turkey's economic growth, and that there has been a significant increase in the number of businesses in Turkey. When you look at the number of business accidents in Turkey that fell to 100,000 workers in 2007, an average of 948 work accidents fell to 628. When you look at the number of workers in Turkey, you see that in 2007 there were about 8.5 million workers, as of 2011, the figure rose to 11.5 million. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of businesses in Turkey, there is an increase in Turkey's number of workers in parallel with economic growth, but there is a decrease when you look at the number of business accidents in proportions. But despite all that, Turkey, unfortunately, is still among the top countries in the world and Europe, in the number of business accidents, in the number of fatal business accidents. This Law on Occupational Health and Safety, which we have passed, with this being seriously implemented and audited, I would like to share in particular my belief that there will be considerable distances in Turkey. Of course, we may not be able to completely reset business accidents, but it's possible to minimize them, maybe completely reset their occupational illness. Legal arrangements must be made -- which has been made to be very important -- but on the other hand, we need to create awareness of business health and safety measures in society. Unfortunately, in society, we do not have a serious sense of security, both our employees and employers and as a society. No matter how accurate you make the laws, no matter how strongly you control them, it's also a fact that as a society, we don't have a sense of security about these issues, that we can't get very serious distance if we don't create a culture about it. In this sense, the Ministry of Labor, especially in the past year, has held very important training meetings from the day of the law; in 81 districts, there are important training meetings with employers and employees in organised industrial areas. I believe, on the one hand, that the training meetings, along with the implementation of this law, are going to be a very important step forward. With these feelings, I ask God's mercy again to the seven workers who have passed away, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0051par0417	Thank you, Mr. Runar. The third speaker on the Republican People's Party group proposal is Mehmet Erdogan, Müğla MP. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0052par0421	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the CHP group proposal. I salute your high council. I'd like to begin with seven of our fellow citizens who died in the Milas Rose dehydration plant, which was run by the private sector on June 17, 2013, with the blessing of God, and the condolences and patience of my fellow citizens. These conversations of ours, of course, will not bring back our dead citizens, but we're happy to be able to reduce our business accidents from now on. Business accidents, a bleeding wound to our country, and a sad fact of our work life. Well, we can talk about it with statistics, but to get to the bottom of it, in business accidents, 1,710 of our citizens lost their lives in 2011, thousands of our citizens were injured, and there was serious workforce loss and financial damage due to these accidents. Okay, so what are these accidents about? The answer is simple: recklessness and recklessness. When we add the third Turkish nation to the magic two words, everything is solved: fate. After that, we just sit around with our necks down. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one must know the truth. People write their own fates. In this regard, I would like to give you an example of the transport industry: there are at least accidents in the shipping industry; then sailing, most accidents are road transport. Why is that? In the aviation sector, the rules are more followed; in this sector, there is a serious control over harmonisation of civilian aviation rules and a very serious sanction as a result of this audit. The most important thing I want to get out of here is that the most important damage he's done since the AKP came to power is to neutralize control activities. The government's most important task is to establish rules and to monitor whether the rules are obeyed, and to apply serious and effective sanctions when those who do not follow them are identified. In this framework, the situation in our country is pathetic because the business accidents we're talking about are about registered employees. Unfortunately, in our current statistics, there are no business accidents involving off-the-book employees. When we look at the disaster that took place in Milas, we say: 1) There are reports that the operating waste water treatment plant was not done properly by the relevant rooms. It is also known, unfortunately, by the Bank of Provinces, who made the tender. However, all correspondence, all that has been done, despite what has been said, has yet to be taken a step towards resolving the shortcomings of the facility. It's clear there's not enough work safety training here. Seven people are dying, including the business manager. Everybody goes down to the plant because of an electrical pump malfunction there, and the second one doesn't come back, and when he doesn't, the others go down to the decontamination plant, and the manager finally passes out on the way down to the facility. And the facility itself has no opportunity, no capacity to interfere with the facility. The facility is being breached by an outside search and rescue team. Of course, the fact that the facility itself has no measure of protecting its own employees here is a major factor in the tragedy. I'm afraid there is some doubt as to whether or not there was sufficient medical attention to the facility manager, who was recovered from the facility, and if there was sufficient time and adequate medical attention. In light of this information, the measures necessary for the prevention of business accidents in Turkey must be determined in a healthy manner. Businesses must be seriously audited by authorities in some areas where the rules are not followed. There should be no apparent indication of who's in charge, causing any confusion in authority. As a result of the inspection, their shortcomings must be satisfied. The sanctions must be done seriously and effectively. If sanctions had been done seriously and effectively and taken in time, we would not have lost seven people in Milas. As a result of the inspection, the activities of businesses that do not meet the shortcomings set must be stopped. Here, the facility was reported by experts by reports of water from the sea, water from the sea, increasing methane production from the sea, and unfortunately no measures were taken. Of course, what we need to know is that human life is more important and more important than anything else. There is no doubt that accidents will be significantly reduced when the rules are followed. The education and awareness of the operators and employees in this regard is, of course, the most important part of the process. The loss of lives and property related to business accidents is not fate; education can be severely reduced by measures to be taken. Milas is a clear statement that these measures have not been taken. These are clearly stated in the expert reports that we have received a lot of information, the document, which has reached the court. Another feature of this facility, of course, is that it is the only wastewater treatment facility run by the private sector in Turkey. There has never been a very serious disaster in public-run businesses, because public institutions have more experience in operating, more savings, and more training of their staff in this regard. I mean, it shows us that when a measure is taken, it is possible to prevent these disasters. Again, in recent days, of course, not only do workers face problems related to working conditions, but power also employs our law enforcement forces under very bad circumstances, as a result of unwitting policies. In order to intervene in protests that have begun as a result of travel actions throughout our country, power has long run law enforcement forces. Because of hard work, our police have difficulty even meeting human needs. Many of our police officers have been assigned to Istanbul and other major cities on temporary missions and are working under heavy conditions. Due to the apparent weakness of governance, the morale and motivation of our law enforcement forces have been corrupted. In many of our provinces, especially Istanbul, the removal of the permits of our law enforcement forces has brought salt and pepper upon these problems. The AKP must quickly restore power to normality and put an end to the indefinitely pressure on our law enforcement forces. This is also very important for the peace of society. In Turkey, of course, the business accident in Milas is not the last, nor will it be the last. Of course, the necessary measures need to be taken here, but since we've learned from recent media reports that the latest Law on Occupational Safety is also on the agenda. The obligations to small businesses have been heavy in the actual latest Employment Safety Act. It is also important that some of the loads that have been placed on these small businesses are passed on to the public and no further steps back on business security are taken after the meeting of Mr. Prime Minister and TESK executives -- unfortunately, there will be a step back on this issue before the House closes. This error should not be imagined after this experience. We must take the necessary measures together to review these measures and avoid further accidents that will cost our people their lives. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0053par0435	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. The last speaker of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Recep. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0054par0439	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group proposal made by the Republican People's Party. First, I pray for God's mercy to all our citizens who died in this business accident that took place in Mugla. I ask for patience with their families, Jamil. Hopefully, we don't want our country to suffer this kind of pain again, this kind of business accident. Of course, all the measures that need to be taken due to business accidents are taken by our government, and all the work can be done at the point of minimizing these accidents, but no matter how much work is done, sometimes it is impossible to avoid them.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0055par0442	Mr. Special, isn't there a muğla MP?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0054par0443	Such deaths can be caused by the lack of education due to some of the workers' own wrong actions, verbs, wrong practices. Hopefully, at the point where none of this is happening, we're all at a hand-me-down point of resolution. Among the things we're going to be working on today, we have a law that is incomplete from yesterday. We hope to finish that law today, so we can't agree on a parliamentary investigation into the fact that this group's proposal by CHP is not going to happen again, unfortunately, but administrative measures, administrative decisions will always be taken. That's why we don't agree to this parliamentary inquiry motion, which is admissible to change the agenda of the House. We'd like to wrap up this week's work by discussing our agenda, today's proposals of the law. I give you all respect and love.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0056par0447	Thank you, Mr. Special. Talks on the Republican People's Party group proposal have been completed. I will submit the motion to your votes: All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, we move to the part of the agenda with the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture Forest and Village Commission and the Foreign Commission reports, where the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement is in line. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Charter and Budget Commission Report on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations, which are ranked in the fourth place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 473 rows. In yesterday's merger, Article 5 was adopted in the first part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. (x) 473 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 122nd Union Charter, dated 19/06/2013. Now, there are two motions on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. Article 1. In the context of the joke, we propose that the statement be changed as a statement. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Haluk Eyidoğan Muharrem Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th edition of the Law Bill on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Reşat Right Do you agree with the last motion read by the Commission?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0057par0487	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0056par0488	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0058par0489	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0056par0490	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0059par0492	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made as the National Party of Action on Article 6 of Law Bill 473. I salute the High Council. Of course, Bill 473 is a bill that must be passed by this time. It's being removed with its minus, its correct -- there may be some flaws. I believe there may be a good bill for our country and our nation. Besides, as you know, our Turkey is on the eve of a very important day. Of course, since 11 years ago, a political party has been in power alone since three years. When we look at it, we have to think together about the power alone and the 11-year-old power to solve many problems in our country. But it turns out that, unfortunately, in our country, we live together in a process where there is no internal and external security left, where the PKK separatist terrorist group is taking almost significant distances from shape, where NG formations have been increasing some problems in eastern and southeast areas. However, among other things, the problems of social layers, especially in our country, continue to endure, unfortunately. In the eleven-year period of power, they needed to be resolved along with many of their problems, and in our country, poverty, poverty, unemployment would almost be reduced to levels that would be said to be extinct or reduced. See, one of them is our shop owner. The tradesmen and the artists' rooms, the presidents, are faxing over all of us. When we look at faxes drawn, we see that the tradesman is in very heavy trouble; we see that our pensioners are facing a lot of problems again; that they can't get along; that our officer, our worker, our farmer, is almost failing in the struggle to survive. Members of lawmakers, tradesmen and artists have sent troops to us, to all of us, to you, to send some articles. However, the tradesmen are facing bankruptcy as well. Since our trade brothers and sisters can't pay their debts, they close their shops, their businesses, their families, and come to the point where they have no food or work. See, in the past few months, insurance, BUG-KUR, finances, tradesmen's bail debts have been structured, but these configurations have not helped the tradesman because he couldn't find a job, because he couldn't pay his normal premiums, and they've also drawn the flag of bankruptcy. They're facing heavy default interest. The tradesmen and artists are in debt, executions and bankruptcy are almost at the door, I'm afraid. And we're bound to sound the call and scream of the tradesmen's rooms. People call out, they say we can't pay the debts. Debts of $35,000 are now up to $43,000 in terms of default interest. Perhaps in the coming period of time these debts will increase and these people will become even more victims. The community's pole, dynamics, and the middle section of what we call the tradesmen have closed down their shops before they can settle down, and, unfortunately, the vicious cycle continues to grow day after day. Adding large supermarkets and supermarkets that are opened within the city, the tradesman has no way of dealing with them. From time to time, we've been talking and giving research proposals, especially from here, about hypermarkets, supermarkets, the emergency extraction of retail law, and we're trying to bring that up again. But even though it's on the agenda we've brought in, unfortunately, it's not heard by the government, so the tradesman's scream is not heard, the artist's scream is not heard. But when one hypermarket opens, when one supermarket opens, it's about 60/70 artists, or at least 70 artists, all of our other tradesmen are faced with shutting down their shops. People are screaming from a heavy situation like this, but these strange, middle-arm people, we call them, are trying to stand up to the point where they say, "Don't let those checks be branded unresponsibly on the back of their checks, so that we don't get unemployed." Because the number of merchants is not such a small number, we have about 2.5 or 3 million tradesmen. Along with them, it corresponds to about 10 million people with their families. In this case, while I'm trying to bring this up during this motion, I particularly request that the sound of our entire tradesman's voice be heard. Also, other than that, see, for example, our shop owner from Reshadiye County, especially our driver and car dealer, are facing the same problems. They're waiting for their problems to be resolved. I believe our House hears their voices, too, but I'm afraid it doesn't. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party says it's busy with other agendas, and I salute the House.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0060par0506	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. Article 1. In the context of the joke, we propose that the statement be changed as a statement. Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0061par0513	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0060par0514	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0062par0515	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0060par0516	Mr. Muherrem Illum, Erzincan MP. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0063par0519	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, the law keeps coming back in a row, but -- it's a little slow -- it seems like it's never been seen when there's a lot of important things in society that need to be discussed right now. So, last week, the workers' deaths happened again. We've just submitted a motion, and as usual, our friend in charge of giving short answers to the motions came forward, and he said, "It's okay, we've already done it." He said, "We've already done it." That's how Congress works! The important thing here is to decide what we need to do to truly make peace in Turkey. That's what you have to work for, actually. Our agenda, of course, is to keep peace in Turkey, as usual, as is now the case of travel. Before we begin the travel events, there is this: last week, you know, Mr. Prime Minister held talks on the travel events, where he held talks with the non-yellow union, the DİSK's Secretary General Arzu Çerkeçeoğlu. Here's what Ms. Arzu says: Mr. Prime Minister, weeks have passed, people are out on the street, four people are dead, mothers are out on the street, so many people are saying things to you day and night, shouldn't we talk about it? This, now, is a sociological, social event. It's not just an architectural issue. Of course, we all know what our Prime Minister is saying there, he's foamed and the Prime Minister has left the hall or been abandoned. So, that's the sociological issue that should be discussed, because what you've been trying to do in Turkey for 11 years, in fact, the mayor of Istanbul has explained to us that in our ten-year period of power, those who share with us one way or another will not share with us in the next decade. Because over the past ten years, there's been a process of liquidation and a definition of freedom, law, justice, that's what we've been doing. And even though they can't digest us in one way or another, let's say that the liberals, in one way or another, have somehow become partners in this process, but it's the next period of construction. The building season won't be what they want it to be. So those commoners won't be with us. Those who walked with us yesterday, one way or another, will be divided this time by forces against us tomorrow. Because Turkey and the future that will be built will not be a future that they will accept and a period of time. Our job is much harder for him. So he's already shown the target, and your mayor is the mayor of Istanbul, the mayor of a major province. Of course, when you started in 2002, you said we switched shirts. However, what I saw, the changing shirt, not the shirts you bought from Mahmutpaşa, was more expensive. We've been bringing it up here all the time, so this pressure you've been doing in all sorts of other jobs, whether it's in the institutions, and then, you know, the latest laws, the pressures you've been putting in the referendum on September 12th, that's where it all came to this. The most recent alcohol law you've brought with you in training is 4+4, the help you've done in society, especially in social welfare foundations, even when you've done so, especially when you've done so, you've done so, especially when you've done so, by taking you to the village, the bias you've shown in the services taken to the villages, and if you don't vote, there will definitely not be any service for you. The pressures you've made by him, the things you've done in the hiring, the things you've done in KPS, even the most honest KPSS, the corruption you've done, the tricks you've done in the last, the most recent, but if you don't vote. But we're still not discussing it here. What we're arguing about is that we're trying to bring laws on who we can benefit from. And as long as we bring them in, society, unfortunately, will not accept. Of course, society now saw that the pressure would not go away for much longer, that there would eventually be an explosion, but you don't intend to, you don't want to read it. You tried to turn it into a body show with the people you collected and the people you brought with you. But the people who run the country weren't supposed to do that, they were supposed to make a peace statement. In his letters to Babu, he said, ▪ Alone, All alone, Woke up in his own voice, He stops and talks without rest. Mussolini talks too much Taranta Babu, He talks a lot. So, we, now, have to make peace in the community. You need to show the Prime Minister's wrongs, not to object to everything we say here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0064par0541	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations that are being discussed are the 7th annual Bill of the Law. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "in case" of his joke be changed to "real." Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Özgündüz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7 of the Law Bill on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Do you agree with the last motion read by the Commission?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0065par0560	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0064par0561	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0066par0562	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0064par0563	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, Aldeli MP. Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0067par0566	Mr. President, I have been promised the motion of the National Movement Party. The situation where Turkey is now... of course the country is tense, the country is troubled, and the MPs are expected to prevent further tension in this country. My dear friend, Mr. Mahir Ünal, deputy leader of the AKP Group, is giving advice on this matter, and he is rightly saying: Let's not. True, but I want you to give these same advice to your Prime Minister. Because that's where the country gets nervous, Prime Minister. I mean, I'm telling you, Mr. Prime Minister, take a ten-day stand, please, it's not that hard, Mr. Prime Minister, please don't talk... When you look at this and the cause of this tension, we can't find anything that makes much sense. After all, it doesn't make sense when you look at it from the point of view of its damage. And Mr. Secretary of Economics is here, and I think he's having the most difficult three weeks of his ministry. Indeed, the Finance Minister, who is trying to bring the two ends of the budget together, is trying to return from one part of the country's damage to the country, which has been driving both hands to prevent economic woes from entering the European recession, and has stepped on the brakes with his foot to the end. It's very difficult. I really wish the Minister all the ease in the world. I don't know if the bankers have forwarded it to Mr. Secretary, but what they're telling us is that there's a very serious money outlet from banks, so there's a foreign money outlet in Turkey, and there's a money outlet from banks in the country. Do you know who did this? It was the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, take your money to his people in the country and deposit it in government banks. Can he make a call like that? What kind of economic management is that? What kind of prime minister would that be? So those private banks are African banks? These private banks are the banks founded by law. What do you think these banks are going to do in the face of suddenly public withdrawal? I'm not giving it to him. He's going to say it. What happens when he doesn't? How do you keep certain balances in this country? How are you going to stop the people who can't withdraw their money? To a minister who's trying to keep the economy alive in front of such an unstable, meaningless, absurd government, I wish God's blessings. Look, I mentioned it yesterday. The shopkeeper was crying blood, and now the blood has stopped crying, and he's sitting on the side, watching himself, waiting for the end. With these trials, the nation began to worry about a serious future. All expenses for consumption have been cut off. The vacationers have completely canceled their vacation reservations; we have tourist friends, they make phone calls, the hotel in the south has a 30-35 per cent cancellation rate. So on the one hand, we're going to increase our exports. You're going to make efforts to open the way for ridiculous events that will destroy tourism revenues that are very important in Turkish exports. We need a friend from the Justice and Development Party who can honestly answer that, yes, friend, that's why we did this tension, that's why I explained it yesterday, if it's a political mind, it's not my idea. So if one political maneuver is to put something else on Turkey's agenda and hide the decisions from the convention in Diyarbakir the day before, it's a very expensive cost; it's an even more expensive cost to hide the Oil Act. Nothing worth the cost. But something meaningless is happening in this country, and the Prime Minister is pushing away those who try to warn him about it. I don't know how true, not how much -- the Deputy Prime Minister, though, denied it, and then I read it -- but it's even been said that the Prime Minister and Bkent Arinc, who have served in this cabinet for many years, have been estranged because of it. Is it all worth it or not?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0068par0570	Don't imagine!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0067par0571	It's not my dream, I read what's written. The dreamers wrote it, tell them.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0068par0572	That's what your heart desires!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0067par0573	Then I read Arinc's statement, and he says it's not true. But it's not worth any of this. So stubborn, it'll end badly. Just so you know. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0069par0577	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins Act 7th Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose that his joke be changed as a statement. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0070par0584	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0069par0585	Government?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0071par0586	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0069par0587	Mr. Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0072par0589	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on the motion we made for Article 7 of the Bill on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. I salute the lawmakers who care more about human life than money. Why did I say hello? Because when people died for freedom and democracy in the fields, blinding, bleeding their brains, breaking their bones, breaking their testicles, you chose to talk about money here today. 90 generations of young, old aunts, uncles taught all of us great lessons in the field. Do we understand this lesson well? Look, I'm telling you carefully, did we all understand this lesson well? Young people say, if you don't understand, we'll tell you again, as long as you're willing to understand. If you don't understand, let's tell you again. What do people say when they come out to the streets all over Turkey? They're calling it government resignation. Now, my dear friends, you have come to the point of saying that the government will hear these cries and do exactly what it is necessary, without shame, without shame, the People's Party of the Republic has not had enough opposition. You have come to the point of saying, "You have come to the point," and yesterday your deputy leader of the group from this stand has spoken these exact words.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0073par0593	No, Kemal Bey said the same thing.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0072par0594	Now, you mustn't ignore the people's desire for freedom and democracy. Well, these people, these young people, the people who chose us, the people who sent us here as deputies, they said, "You guys didn't do it."
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0074par0595	Is he talking to you?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0072par0596	They told us all.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0074par0597	No, he said you, you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0072par0598	To all of us. I'm about to transfer that psychological situation from here, so if you'll excuse me, let's not use the psychology of reflection. These people didn't act the way we wanted them to, they said, and they went out into the street. Now, when the real one comes, the deputy takes a step back. It's the real deal. They're on the real streets. He said to you: 'I have chosen you. I trusted the AKP as 49 per cent of the voters -- 40 per cent of the voters -- and I made you a government, but you didn't manage this country the way I wanted you to. You didn't have enough opposition. I went out on the street, he says. Now, if we understand this, if we learn our lesson well, we can do something. But if we don't understand it, if we don't understand it, then I have a few interests for those who are stubborn. Psychiatry has what we call a projection state. I mean, there's nothing wrong with me. All of the blame is on the CHP. Or I don't have anything on me. All of the blame is on the MHP. It's a psychiatric projection, which is a question of reflection, and it's an emergency study of psychiatry. If people think that way, they must make an urgent psychiatric evaluation. Yesterday, it was said from this bench again: "The crown has become an actor, it's dangerous. " Thank you very much for seeing this, Mr. Vice President of the group, it's a very accurate statement. It takes a lot of common sense to see that the base is an actor. If the base has become an actor, we have to give up this projection immediately, and if the public tells you that you have failed, let it go. If it says that you have failed, you have to let it go immediately, you can't treat us, let it go. If it says so, we must let it go immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0075par0602	In the trunk, in the trunk...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0072par0603	So you need to hear these screams. The people have said no more. Part of society -- look, I'm talking about a second psychiatric situation -- is a problem in psychiatry, which requires immediate treatment. In my next speech, I will continue my psychiatric evaluations.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0076par0607	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "uninterrupted" in his joke be changed to "uninterrupted." Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Özgündüz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th edition of the Bill on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0077par0626	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0076par0627	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0078par0628	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0076par0629	Mr. Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0079par0632	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. For the economy, the essential is stability. The government has expressed it over and over again. Unfortunately, the recent Travel events are heading towards an irreversible path with the AKP's provocations in itself. In an unstable environment, economic testing is pointless, so let's rephrase that. Dear MPs, the Prime Minister made a speech at 2:30 a.m. to the population's resources and threats gathered by Melih Gökçek, who became mayor of Ankara, not just the AKP. In his speech, you complained about the interest lobby, and you were five times richer in our time, and now what happened? As if Erdogan had not ruled this country by himself for 11 years, the institutions, economists and ministers who had defined Turkey's economic policies had stepped up as if it had not been dependent on Erdoğan, and complained to the public about the interest lobby he had been feeding and growing for 11 years. We need to get to know this person well, and we've given up whether or not he cares about the government, and we're dealing with a politician who's willing to do whatever it takes to achieve the goal. It sends out all the messages that will stir the country abroad, and most of the time, it gets messy on plane trips. The institutions, the NGOs, they make a harsh statement, they shut up. When the waters calm down, the Prime Minister raises his voice again, starts threatening. In the events of travel, millions of people are scattered around, breathing abroad. To Him belong the good deeds, and to Him belong the evil deeds. He never makes a mistake, but it's always someone else's; he never takes responsibility. Mr. Prime Minister, were you unaware of the government's interest policy? Who transferred these funds to this interest lobby? Who are these private or corporate people you call the interest lobby? So far, it's been good, what can't you share and what can't be shared? Let the people know the answers to these questions. That's the money you're pouring into the lobby because it's the public's money, the hairless orphan's right that you always put in your mouth. We cut off the trunks. You said, "You cut those hoses to other altars and to your followers." I don't know all that. If you say so, then you don't even know yourself. Either you deliberately let the country get robbed, or you ignored it, or you're afraid you don't have the courage or the insight to understand what's going on. Mr. Erdogan, when things were going well, you even owned the stars in the sky, you started everything by yourself. You made it a habit to thank, to slander, to slander, to deny work, let alone thank you for all the work that was done to you. As they say, one who doesn't know how to thank the servant is incapable of thanking the Creator. My dear people, know this person well now. He asked you for a vote to serve, and you supported him, but after 11 years, he became a tower of elephant teeth, built entirely on pride and anger, no nation in his language, no sincere companion on the road with him. The AKP has moved ahead of its principles, Erdogan's desires and desires. He says, if there's one, I'll do it.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0080par0638	Come to Samsun on Saturday. Come to Samsun on Saturday, come to Samsun.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0079par0639	Citizens of the AKP want to take your party with them when Erdogan leaves. Take possession of your party, not Erdogan, but your principles, not Erdogan's crutches.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0081par0640	Yeah, who's the crutches? You're talking dirty!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0079par0641	If he's turned on three crescents at a rally, he's either really pathetic or he's given up on you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0081par0642	Who's on whose crutches? Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0082par0643	It's not nice to call MPs crutches.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0079par0644	His party has been properly warned from within, but he hasn't learned or learnt from it. They cut the rope of the man who's falling off the cliff to save the rest. Otherwise, they're in danger of dragging others into the abyss. End this age of pride and arrogance and division.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0083par0645	We're waiting for Samsun this weekend.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0079par0646	Dear lawmakers, the Turkish economy is on a very fragile line. Instead of producing an economy, it wouldn't have been any different from where a consumer economy would be going, with a sense of interest, proportionate, selling, savvy. A Prime Minister who doesn't see the street, who doesn't listen to the street, who owns the house, who excludes the citizens of the street, probably only in our country. Economic developments cannot be discussed in a complex, unsettled environment, without stability and peace, with international environments and countries that we export to, in an environment that has ruined their relationship with the EU. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0083par0649	On Saturday, we wait for Samsun.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0084par0650	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "uninterrupted" in his joke be changed to "uninterrupted." The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0085par0657	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0084par0658	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0086par0659	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0084par0660	The Horseman, the Mersin MP. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0663	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, I have received our pledge on the 8th Amendment of Bill of Law 473. I'm picking up where we left off. I've been trying to explain to you a psychological state of travel events, a psychiatric condition, that everyone will get what they get. When I just finished the speech, Mr. Group Vice President said: "You're a doctor, and what doctor are you?" I'm a pediatrician. I got a psychiatric internship, and I successfully taught psychiatric classes, but I wonder if Mr. Prime Minister has ever studied gynecology in his training, speaking like a gynecologist? Has he studied anthropology, speaks like an anthropologist? Did he take a nuclear energy course, he talks like a nuclear engineer? I wonder if he took gastronomy class, talking like a gastronome. Did he get a fashion education, talk like a fashion designer? After all, you'll have these removed by the time you get to the astronaut. However, I don't know the definition of a situation that says, "I do so much." I don't know in medicine, it may not have been mentioned in medicine yet, but thanks to you, this will soon be named. So, friends, I've been telling you what we've been dealing with in the event of travel events, psychiatric destruction created by the resistance of travel, or some psychiatric situation.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0088par0667	Did you check the provocateurs?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0668	Congressmans, don't shout from there, I really don't understand. If you're a civilized...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0089par0670	Guys, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0671	If you want a relationship, come back when I'm done talking, we'll have a cup of tea, and I'll tell you about it. You can't really tell from there.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0090par0672	Understandable, understandable.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0673	Now, I'm continuing with the psychiatric definitions. No matter what anyone says, I do what I do. I'm the one who knows the whole thing, and I'm the one who knows everything. I'm the megalomaniac in medicine, and this megalomaniacic situation needs to be evaluated and treated immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0091par0674	Did you look in the mirror, in the mirror?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0675	Yeah, why are you jumping so fast, you're on top of yourself? So if you're offended, there's no need to shout, I've got friends, I'll send them over to evaluate you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0091par0676	I held a mirror.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0677	When under a bit of stress, the attack is called "aggression" in psychiatry, and this aggression must be evaluated immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0092par0678	Teacher, you're describing yourself.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0679	Stop projecting or I'll doubt you too. In medicine, we call it narcissism. Narcissism must be evaluated urgently, requires medical attention, requires treatment.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0093par0681	People love it, people!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0682	I understand you're being taken over, but when you bring in the transcripts and carefully examine them, you'll understand that I'm making a general assessment.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0093par0683	See Samsun on Saturday.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0684	If a person denies what he says soon and says the opposite, we call it a separation of personality in medicine, or..... splitting. This is a very dangerous situation. People with dissolution of personality and whose influence has been given need to be treated immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0094par0685	Do you know who he fits in with?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0087par0686	Now, a human being is plotting against me, and everyone's digging my hole. Both national and international forces are trying to move me. If he says so, it's paranoia. Paranoia is a dangerous situation, and it needs to be treated immediately. If a person says that I am extremely tired. If he closes his eyes when he talks, in the name of this, we call medicine "exhausting syndrome" or "exhausting syndrome," and that's a really dangerous situation and should be treated immediately. Now, these situations are for people, friends; they can be. Some have a stomach ache, some have a headache, some have a leg ache, and some have a broken soul. The ones who have a sore foot go to orthopedics, the ones who have headaches go to neurology, the ones who feel that way, the ones in their soul, the ones who feel that way, they go to a shrink. Now, that's why... especially when these people are at some point in management, their health is our business, because every step of the way with these problems could be a real problem. So we should all -- including me -- if we see problems like this in ourselves, we should go to the doctor. But let me tell you, psychiatric patients claim they don't have these problems, they deny it. Then come, I'll take you to a doctor. He says, and he helps. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0095par0691	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0096par0692	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0095par0693	Wait a second, guys...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0097par0694	Change your head, get out of your head!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0098par0695	Why are you taking it on? I didn't say anything to you. I said it myself.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0095par0696	One moment, please, one second... guys, one second...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0099par0697	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, if you promise to mention my name in two minutes...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0095par0698	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0099par0701	Dear friends, today we made a deal with our group presidents. So, without creating a tension environment, I'd like to run the House today and take out the following laws, but since it's been opened up in our fields of expertise and expertise, I'm not finished as a sociology and applied psychology major, I'm not finished with my Physics degree, so let me underline that -- I know a lot of psychology. Now, I'll tell you one quick thing, I'm not gonna pick on anybody.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0100par0703	Aytug Hodja is a physician.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0099par0704	Veli Agha, please... Now, we, with our five senses, perceive the outside world. As we perceive the outside world, we filter out what we see, hear, touch, taste from our own perception filters, our values, our beliefs, our perspective, we create a perception, a meaning. This perception and meaning belong to us, it's personal. From the moment you start talking, you start talking about your own perception, your own meaning. So what someone else means about you doesn't mean you're real, it means he's expressing his thoughts. So instead of seeing it as a tease, we just saw a congressman who shared his own perspective, his own perception of reality with us. So what he means about us, our political opinion, our party, is not our reality, but his own perception of the world. So I don't see it as a tease, and I felt the need to express it through a residency. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0708	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0102par0709	Mr. President, didn't he ask for a pick-on?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0710	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0102par0711	He gave a speech saying there was no bullying. On what basis did you promise?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0712	Everyone...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0103par0713	Mr. President, you've been misled by the group's deputy president.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0714	One moment, my dear friend... On the stand of this House...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0104par0716	I'm asking you, sir, based on what clause you promised.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0105par0717	Mr. President, he's deceiving you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0718	I swear, it's yours, it's not yours.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0105par0719	Retribution! Congratulate him, Mr. President, he's deceiving the Speaker!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0720	It's customary for me to make a promise when a group of vice presidents tells me something. So, there's nothing to be disturbed about.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0105par0721	He's fooling us all in person, sir!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0106par0722	You used to give it away.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0728	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. We provide and propose that the description of the joke be changed to the location. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Haluk Eyidoğan Sakina Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th Amendment bill on the current Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz D. Ali Torlak Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0107par0744	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0745	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0108par0746	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0101par0747	Durmiş Ali Torlak, İstanbul MP. Mr. Torlak, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0109par0750	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding our motion in Article 9 of the law. I hereby salute your high council. Of course, when it comes to the economy and the Minister, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to address some naval difficulties. Mr. President, I regret to inform you that the crisis that began in the world in 2008 as a brother of yours who had given nearly thirty years has affected our Turkey very seriously, and Turkey has faced a very serious challenge in the industry when you think about the side industry and the workers' interests, especially in the shipyards. Look, if you think that 40,000 people only work in the Tuzla shipyard area, and that 40,000 people, if you consider that one working person is giving bread to seven people outside, there are about 100-150,000 people who are out of work. I've said this over and over again from this bench, but we couldn't explain our problems as the National Movement Party. The Justice and Development Party has done serious work in the naval field. One of the most important things, Mr. Secretary, is that he has set up new shipyards. As a member of the National Movement Party, I am a friend of yours who wants 400 shipyards, 500 shipyards in Istanbul, Turkey, not 40 shipyards in this country. But Mr. Secretary gave up several shipyards in Yalova, and only in the Black Sea. Only the shipyard gave us the location. Today it is given in Tripoli, it is given in Samsun, it is given in Yalova, it is given in Ereğli. They have made serious investments in these shipyards, but when they came to the point where they could not get a job, there were major problems with the banks. And when you say banks, you have to remember that until 2008, banks that didn't come out of the armators' offices, from the shipyards of shipyards, never, never came into the offices or the shipyards after 2008. I'd like it to happen, if our government, Mr. Minister, had followed this: that by 2008, the naval sector had made a lot of money -- and considering that the two sectors in Turkey today have made money as a sector, one of them is banking, one is construction -- if the banks had kept up 10 percent of the money they made in the naval sector, it wouldn't have gone on since 2008, Mr. Minister. See, now that we've got our armators, they've opened their ships from unemployment to unemployment, they've put a man on top of it, they've kept their ships waiting by making it. Therefore, the armator has a great deal of problems. When we think that the armator has a problem, it's first reflected in the shipyard, and then from the shipyard to the side-industrials. There's a lot of ways to fix these problems. One of them, I'm very proud to say, is a ship that we recently bought from abroad, from the Ministry of Energy. The Ministry says we got it for $130 million. I've met with my friends, and this is a very serious ship, a very special ship, but I'd like to put it to you in very specific terms and say, I've expressed to them, Mr. Minister - that Turkey is capable of doing the same thing now, Mr. Secretary. All we're missing is that banks don't like us, they don't like the shipping industry; they were looking at it yesterday, they're not looking at it today. If you get a job, if you get a job abroad, if you bring it here, your biggest problem is a bank guarantee letter, you need to figure it out. If you don't solve this, we'll build as many ships as you want. Say, "We'll build the best system." Minister, I say only 10 percent of what they've earned, 10 percent of what they've gained, if they're transferred back into this sector, this crisis in the sector will be over, and people will still eat the bread, 150,000 people, 200,000 people, as they used to. You need to monitor this very seriously, Mr. Secretary. We're out of armators, most of our shipyards have been delayed. Our newly built shipyard friends are in great debt because they see the industry as good and serious; today the banks go to them, take their homes, take their businesses, humiliate the worker, humiliate themselves. So, I think it would be helpful to reconsider, and I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0110par0761	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. We provide and propose that the description of the joke be changed to the location. Sakine Öz (Manisa) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0111par0768	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0110par0769	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0112par0770	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0110par0771	Mr. Sakine Öz, Congressman of Manisa. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0113par0774	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute everyone in our country who defends justice and democracy to the end, especially the Travel Resistance. Dear lawmakers, we witness the resistance of Travel Park moving from social media to squares every day with a new, original idea. The democratic, peaceful, legitimate, and righteous aspects of our social response are revealed despite all the obstructions of power. We, like the first day, will continue to cross the walls of fear by the worn-out government, which interferes with our way of life, our beliefs, our basic national and cultural values, our private lives, who try to dress up in one kind of clothing, race the number of births, divide our common habitats with sects, and sacrifice our common habitats to the fancy words of urban transformation. Government officials, however, prove that with their charisma, their wrong judgment, their direction that they made and then failed to keep their promise, their law enforcement and the public's messages were not considered at all. For the sake of the local election, the prime minister labels all those who do not vote for him with unspeakable lies; as the number of righteous people grows, he can't restrain his anger as he is alone in the world, resorts to paranoid comments and lies. The AKP's intellectuals cannot establish a language and politics to carry their leaders, but they stage a forced theatre at desperate rallies. The AKP ship, which walks on lies, gas, and rants, recedes as it gets water. However, our party's proposals for the construction of a new political order in favour of labour and humanity, the amendments to the Constitution and Election Code, the end of police violence, the establishment of legal infrastructure necessary for the creation of independent media in parliament are denied, law proposals are denied, without question, the AKP staff has been taken down. The AKP is trying to increase tension, to separate our losses, to label anyone as a terrorist while praising the real criminals, to lead to the judiciary, to limit individual preferences and freedoms, to pursue a witch hunt in society, and to turn all their accounts back into local elections. In 2002, when he was 1 in 2002, he accused the newly wealthy of being five. Today, he declared the American think tank he was attached to as a scapegoat. He counted the pepper spray that the police applauded and squeezed, his natural rights. He gave the infirmary pepper spray that wasn't even seen in the war, and it went down in history as a black mark. He tagged the people who were taken to the hospital. He turned his back on the beatings taken into custody by young people on police buses. A headscarf has been mobilized on charges of violence against our citizen. In Kazlışmemü, our little girl's hand was applauded by the Minister of the Family when the letter was set on fire, not by a drunken, disorderly husband, but by God-fearing, pious husband. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You didn't say a word about the AKP ranks, the enemy citizen description of an MP and the chief of the riot squad. In respect of innocent environmental demands, the Prime Minister has forced environmental massacres and urban transformation schemes through the House over the past two months. Dear lawmakers, the Prime Minister is running out of political deadlines. It has no function but to create temporary polarizations in society. The fields echo with the call of a new political, democratic, fair and free society. The Prime Minister is pushing to save the day while he should be receiving this message to keep the state in fascist hands. This simple account will not fail and fail because the CHP, which has dedicated its political history and future to peace, justice, democracy, will continue to show the end of this government more decisively in the polls than ever. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0114par0783	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. We propose and supply that the joke be changed as a statement. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Suleiman Çelebi Haluk Eyidöğan Güldün Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Amendment bill on the current Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0115par0800	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0114par0801	Government?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0116par0802	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0117par0803	Motive...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0114par0804	I'm having it read. The bill speaks of the need to adapt to the EU acquish, to fill the legal gap in the field of systems, payment services and electronic monetary boards, but also to define the healthy development of the areas, to define the main concepts, to determine rights and obligations and investments. The EU directives and the bill of law on these grounds are being drafted, as part of Turkey's National Programme in 2008, as part of the Free movement of Capital and the drafting of the Payment Systems Act as part of Fiscal Services Fasiliars. The EU, however, is no longer paying much attention to Turkey, which is the basis for the arrangements, and unfortunately there is no progress in the talks on the chapters mentioned. Therefore, the bill should be prepared, not by EU directives, but by considering Turkey's needs. In addition, when the payment agencies were identified, they were all collected under one item. However, he has been involved in many studies and reports of money laundering through payment agencies in many different ways. The regulations must be adopted in a way that does not lead to money laundering and contains detailed provisions. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "hale" in his joke be changed to" state of mind. " From the heart (Tekirdağ) and his friends Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0118par0814	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0114par0815	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0119par0816	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0114par0817	From the heart, Tekirdağ MP. Mr. Hosier, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0120par0820	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 10th Amendment of the Bill of the Law on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Money is important, but, of course, it's just a tool; it's a means to make a person live in better, more human, better conditions. Dear MPs, we are witnessing one of the most important social and social events in the history of the Republic of Turkey. The reaction and resistance to the cutting down of trees at Salat Park has become a social uprising, a social opposition movement due to police force, spread throughout the country, and the Prime Minister's banner, outnumbered, demeaning attitude. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to underline this universal truth once again: protest is a constitutional right in every society where democracy is functional. Unfortunately, though, although its source was taken from the Constitution, its most democratic rights -- the Travel Park protesters have been subjected to an unproportionate amount of police violence. That won't be enough, now the detentions have begun. I ask you, where in the world is a prime minister to call people who don't vote for him a "chapulcu", and to the citizens who are protesting him say "terrorist" to the citizens who are protesting...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0121par0825	Not the ones who didn't vote, the ones who threw stones.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0120par0826	...that if you don't live like yourself, say that the government will collapse, that my power will go away; that's the legacy of custody, that's the coup lover. Let's say that this is the real Turkey, the real nation in the rally area. This is the real nation. Dear lawmakers, let's go 11 years before this; you're not MPs, we're not, and if these were told to you, what would you say, what would you say, what would you say? Would you say too much, or would you prefer to shut up, as you did today, outside of Mr. Ertugrul Günay? The Prime Minister himself says that they can't see such a Prime Minister anywhere in the world. The power of the Travel Park protesters is truly unprecedented. That's right, we can't find a prime minister like that in the world. Four of our citizens lost their lives as a result of police violence, the disproportionate power of travel park protestors. Ethem Sarısülük was 26 years old, and was a worker in Ostim. Mehmet Ayvallıtaş was 19. Abdullah was generous, only 22 years old. Mustafa Sarı was a young lieutenant, only 30 years old. Again, many of our citizens are fighting for their lives right now. At Ankara Numune Hospital, a 2nd-year-old student at Hacettepe University, Dilan Dursun, 20, is in Istanbul, 14-year-old Berkin Elvan, in Eskişehir, 19-year-old Ali İsmail Korkmaz is currently fighting for his life. We have dozens of citizens who have lost sight and hearing, thousands of wounded. For God's sake, this hatred, this hatred, who, what? Is it worth the lives of four of our citizens? In such an environment, unfortunately, the esteemed MPs, the Prime Minister of our country, and you ruling MPs, whatever they may be, may God have mercy on our dead citizens for once. Wouldn't he say, "I wish these losses hadn't happened"?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0122par0829	How many times have we said that?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0120par0830	Won't he share his pain? The Prime Minister, who has shown mercy to his fellow citizens, has been informed that the American soldiers in Iraq... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to be able to return to their homes in good health.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0122par0834	You never listened to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0123par0835	Thank you, Your Honor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 473 Orders of Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins bill 11. Article 1. We propose and supply to change the reference to the joke. Müslim Sarı Süleyman Çelebi Turgut Dibek Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0124par0846	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0123par0847	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0125par0848	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0123par0849	Mr. Candan Yüceer, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0126par0852	Dear MPs, who came after the police in Istanbul, Adana, Izmir. Who are these civil militias who attacked our Istanbul province building as soldiers? I'll ask you again from here. I don't know if I've missed it, but you've been following it, Mr. Prime Minister, and I haven't heard a single word of criticism about these people. Why do you ignore doctors who have stethoscopes on their necks, hypocratic oaths, lawyers who have the Constitution, and lawyers who say, "Don't interfere with my freedoms, my decisions." You take our young people into custody, the people's voice, the people's conscience, and why do you ignore these people with their lines and spiked clubs? Why don't you say a word about these people? Who cuts the power and releases these rowed men, these men, on citizens in the squares? Have the people who attacked our Istanbul county building been identified? Who are they? Look, despite intense police violence, in spite of these people, protesters have tried and protected their peaceful stance throughout their entire demonstration. Despite statements from a columnist who also served as a MP from his party -- come on, you don't believe him, we admit, but -- despite the imam of the mosque mentioned, despite his denials, activists drink in the mosque over and over again. For the assault on a woman with a headscarf -- the young people protesting -- they carried out this attack on her. I'd like to ask you something: Does a statesman really use such expressions on these tense days, in this way, as if he wanted to provoke decent people of his religion? Really, a serious statesman, I think, should be, in our opinion, investigating these events rather than instigating people, and if there is any truth in them, they should be arrested and brought to justice as soon as possible. Because, it turns out, someone who's had a drink like that in the mosque, or who's done something like that, or who's actually done something like that, or who's lost human values or who's lost their humanity. What needs to be done is for these people to be held fast, to be put before the judge, to be punished for their crimes, that's what needs to be done. In the demonstrations, where Ethem Sarısülük, who had been shot and killed in Kızılay, was brutally sprayed with pepper gas for his funeral in Kızılay, killing germs from those medicated waters, I don't know why they had drugs -- I don't know why they had drugs -- they got bored, they got involved. It's not enough that he wasn't allowed to come to the funeral house. As a result of the family's insistence on resuscitation, the family finally got permission and the funeral could come to his house. It's a shame, it's a sin! Respect people's pain, their funeral. Let men worship where they believe, where they will, and let them bury their own body in their own faith, and live as they themselves. Who's the prime minister who's afraid of his citizen's funeral? Throughout his history, there have been many provocations in this country, and people have been burned alive, without saying, "Sivavata, child" or "woman" or "woman." Many of our 34 citizens were killed at the age of children. The Prime Minister says in his last group speech: "There are those who are targeting our unit. " Right, there is, there is, it is itself. These people, who have witnessed many provocations, have suffered great pain and loss for many years, will continue to live as brothers and sisters, without honoring your provocative remarks, with the Sunni of Alevi, with the Kurd, with the Turk, with the Çerkeklu and Laz. Your arrogance and hatred will not be sufficient against the brothers.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0127par0860	I can see who's got the anger.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0126par0861	You don't say it, but I'll put it this way, our ancestors said it so beautifully, that pride comes before the fall.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0128par0862	You have the arrogance.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0127par0863	Why are you shouting?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0126par0864	I'll say it from here. It's from us.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0127par0865	Can't you talk without yelling?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0126par0866	Humane, peaceful, fearless people who call freedom, democracy, brotherhood, not against anyone's faith, clothing, way of life, his thinking. They say they have different lifestyles in this country. I have decisions in this country. Don't forget that everyone is the Prime Minister of all of us. The protestors you're so afraid of, they're not trying to overthrow your government here. He's not questioning your political legitimacy. On the contrary, it's not just the majority of democracy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They want to remind you that it's majority, that it's about securing everyone's rights, it's about protecting everyone's rights, it's about reminding those of you who haven't had their share of democracy.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0129par0870	Thank you, Your Honor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Compensation and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations 12th Amendment. Article 1. We provide and propose that the reference of the joke be changed to the name of the document. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Bill on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services, and Electronic Money Corporations is 12 years old. Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose the addition of the bell below as a f curve to the joke. Mehmet Şandir S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal f) Services to mediate other collections and payment payments. Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0130par0888	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0129par0889	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0131par0890	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0129par0891	Mr. Günal, this is Antalya MP.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0132par0892	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a promise on our proposal. Mr. Secretary will remember, when we were talking upstairs, we said it wasn't just the payments, so we had to do a study and Mr. Secretary's gone again. So I made a very specific promise that when he was here, we talked in the evening...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0133par0895	Now there's been a shift change.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0132par0896	I'll talk to him again when he gets here. I've just come to talk to Mr. Babacan, Mr. Secretary, again, now that he's here, let's talk about something else, let's not talk about it when he gets here. I called to ask what we talked about last night, Mr. Minister. He said, "Let's see. Our friends are here, and I looked here, and I looked, and there's no proposal from the AKP Group, so I'm going to ask the President, and I'm telling our spokesman, because I've told him that there are a lot of instalment payments and other collections besides what we're doing today. Of course, Mr. Yilmaz was -- Mr. Eroglu was in the evening -- not directly involved. Now, he'll ask the friends, they'll ask him. I think the part about the interest lobby is when Mr. Babacan gets here, I'd better ask him. Now we're talking behind his back again. Dear friends, something has to be done here to consider other collections, which is why we told our friends. In fact, what I'm saying may not be enough, but they were technically required to work, because only the electricity we see today can pay off a number of institutions, other than the water bill, and these collection institutions can pay off colleges. This can't just be a bill, it can be some instalments, they can get along. That's why we made this motion so that the organization of these institutions would not be excluded tomorrow. Now, I, of course, would ask our Deputy Prime Minister, but the men of the interest lobby... we asked the banks here yesterday, maybe he wouldn't answer. I mean, our bureaucrat friends are here. The Competitiveness Association has punishments, there are some questions yesterday because the banks themselves agreed, and they're stuck in the air. I don't know, if our bureaucrat friends are ready... at least we don't know if the seizure is permanent or temporary, Mr. Ünal. Will he come again, Mr. Babacan? According to him...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0134par0899	When the Minister arrives, you'll bring it up again.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0132par0900	I mean, now that I've made a promise to him again, we'll be talking in the dark.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0135par0901	Send me the CD.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0132par0902	The other question is, I'm holding back my rights, then, in the following articles... There's nothing wrong with asking Mr. Yilmaz because now he's going to learn from our friends, as he has no business dealing with them. So, Mr. Secretary has to answer the questions we're asking here last night and today, but I particularly think that our friends on the matter will be able to communicate technically to the Minister, if necessary, to arrange the scope of this clause according to him, otherwise a number of organizations will not be covered tomorrow, or some of their payments will not be made in this framework. Technically, I think it should be reconsidered. That's what the motion was for. If the Minister comes, I'll ask him my questions in other matters. My respects.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0136par0906	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Compensation and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations 12th Amendment. Article 1. We provide and propose that the reference of the joke be changed to the name of the document. Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0137par0913	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0136par0914	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0138par0915	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0136par0916	Mr. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0139par0918	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Dear friends, this bill we're talking about, you know, is about adapting to the acquish of the European Union. However, the political criteria of the European Union, you know, are referred to as the Copenhagen Criteria. First of all, I think the most important issue our country is currently facing is the basic human rights violations and the issue of judicial independence that is recognised in the European Convention on Human Rights. It's been twenty days, I know that your government, or rather, government, is reasonable people in the government -- personally, by personal decision of the Prime Minister himself, disband them, silence them, suppress them, send them home on a legitimate, peaceful, reasonable protest that has spread throughout the country's agenda. Mr. Prime Minister says: What would the security forces do? The whole world uses gas in Europe. Dear friends, according to a European Court of Human Rights ruling, this intervention must be certainly proportionate and measured in cases when security forces must intervene by force. In a series of decisions, the ECHR decided that pepper spray was not proportional to closed environments, to closed places, including hospitals, but to violate basic human rights. I was in Taxi for about ten days. I was there this afternoon, until dawn. Dear friends, even in war, even in war, treatment centers, hospitals are untouchable, they are untouchable. Two gas bombs were dropped in the infirmary built inside the Travel Park. There was an oxygen tank next to a doctor. God forbid the explosion in an oxygen tank could have caused a disaster. Gas bombs were dropped on the patients. The last time I was there, I was at the Court Hotel, after the order of Gezi Park to evacuate the Prime Minister before the Istanbul rally. We were there with the wounded, women, foreign journalists, foreign politicians who had taken refuge in the Court Hotel. The police had blockaded both sides and sprayed the area on people who wanted to go out with TOMA -- they don't want to go to the boat park, notice, there's no violence against the police, they just want to get out, they want to spread out. Our congressman, our Vice President Sezgin Tanrıkulu MP, has shown his identity, but the water has been specifically targeted and bored. So indeed, this Parliament must first claim the status of its members, the honor of its members. This is the police state, which means today it's for us, tomorrow it's for you. That's not appropriate. You must first refuse a police officer, a police officer there, to spray the MPs with his initiative, sir, water squeeze. Sir, there's disproportionate power. Well, if there's disproportionate power, do it, so the problem is there, you don't do it. Dear friends, look, I'll give you an example: on Saturday, our average citizen, deaf and dumb, a disabled citizen, Mahmut Ayyyıldıl, is in possession of his report, walking around Mecidieköy with his child, the police injured him with a rubber bullet, this disabled citizen of ours fell on the ground, went away, copped it. Here's the report, if you'd like, I can present it to the government authorities. What does the report say? Referred from the outside centre, the patient is deaf and dumb. Medical history received through relatives. There's evidence that he was injured by a rubber bullet from a police fire about two hours ago. On the left cheek, five centimeters above the mandibula anglu, two centimeters in diameter, disorganized edges, bleeding, open wound. So what is this now? This, sir, is not a citizen who is violent with police, throwing stones at police, gassing police, but a citizen of ours, Mecidiyeköy. Look, this is persecution. I mean, honestly, it's persecution. So, whoever believes in God, who believes in God, will not be cruel. The cruel man has a problem with his faith. Let him believe in religion and Islam, whichever religion he believes in, and if a man believes in God, he will not wrong the man created by God. We're against it. So, please warn Mr. Prime Minister to give up this persecution against his own people, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0140par0926	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins bill 13th Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that the phrase "except its supplier" in his joke be changed to "different from its provider." Ali Özgundüz Haluk Eyidoğan Bkent Kuşoğlu Turgut Dibek Süleyman Çelebi Müslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th Amendment of the Law Bill on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations be changed in the following way. Ali Öz Mehmet Şandir Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid Ali Halaman Article 13- (1) Under this law; A) banks under the 5411 Law, C) Money transfer agencies, d) Payment agencies, He's the payment provider. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0141par0951	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0140par0952	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0142par0953	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0143par0954	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0140par0955	Reason: Money transfer agencies and paying companies must be dealt with separately. Since there are completely different categories, it would be more appropriate for them to be subject to different provisions. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins bill 13th Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that the statement be replaced as different from the provider, except for its provider in the joke. Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0144par0963	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0140par0964	Government?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0145par0965	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0140par0966	Mr. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0146par0969	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, yes, my speech was incomplete, so I felt the need to renegotiate. Dear friends, in all these cases, five of our citizens have lost their lives, including one Lieutenant Mustafa Sarı. I wish God's mercy to all our citizens who have lost their lives, my condolences to their relatives. If the Prime Minister had called on the members of the Travel Platform on this matter, and called on the families of those who lost their lives, to offer their condolences, what do you want? After all, people have lost relatives. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, that's right, it's not just about three or five trees anymore, you know. Because then, when it was a matter of three or five trees, if you'd come to the point where you are now, I'd ask the people of Istanbul, I'd do whatever the people of Istanbul want. At first, if the police hadn't stepped on the young girls' tent at dawn, if the police hadn't dragged them out of their hair, if they hadn't set fire to their tent, the matter of three or five trees would have been settled, but right now there's blood in the middle, right now there are killers. Unless these killers are punished, the people who gave these orders, the governors, the police chiefs, unless they are removed from office, unless obstacles to freedom of expression are removed in front of the meetings and demonstrations, the people's legitimate demands, the legitimate demands, the government's resignation. As long as they ignore the demands of the government, this will continue. Let me be clear about this, so this isn't over. Sir, now you're on a witch hunt. Five years ago, you're going to go out and hunt people who attended meetings and demonstration walks from their homes. The last thing you did was label the market a terrorist organization. Be wary of Allah, and his Market against all things will, of course, be against fascism, against dictatorship, so it is wrong to think otherwise. (HPP) What says here now is what the market says: we sleep in the love of the country, the love of the republic, the prison is ours. What's going to happen? They sleep in three or five months. Not with this, you know. Look, I'll gas you with the police, I'll catch you, I'll arrest you, I'll arrest you; whatever you do, no matter what you do, you have to fix yourself. Dear friends, in all these cases, a total of 7,959 people were injured, five people were killed, 12 people lost their eyes. Twenty-two-year-old girl, she's got dreams, she's gonna get married, she's gonna make a life, she's lost her eye. So it's worth it? I mean, for what purpose? No, it will be what I say it will be. You're there for people, you're here for people. Here I represent 50 percent. 50% voted for you to serve people. It's another matter. I mean, why are you splitting society in the middle 50 percent? And the other 50% are related to it. Don't you know, you know, who votes for other parties? You don't have any relatives of your own? So 50 percent, the other 50 percent, these are split in the middle, not two hostile fronts. The other 50% are relatives, relatives, somehow. This is no way to run a country, dear friends. So you are the government, and the people have given you a temporary mandate to serve the people. Tomorrow, the AKP will leave, someone else will come, CHP will come, and we'll continue. In fact, there are a lot of reasonable, sane people in the AKP Group that I actually know. So, the problem here is that it's about the government, rather than the government, it's about the Prime Minister's understanding of taking it alone. You know how you used to say, "Baas regime" or something, totalitarian, repressive, silencer, put people in jail? Here, right now, the AKP is trying to run the country with a Baas-type understanding. You can't take them away, dear friends. Know that, listen to people. This is a threshold, which means that the Prime Minister has already left, and you can move on with another leader, a more reasonable, sane leader, or you can stretch out the country, and there will be more conflicts, and there will be conflicts, injuries, deaths, Mr. Prime Minister himself is responsible, and you must remember that he is responsible for that. Open up, see Article 77 of the Turkish Penal Code. From now on, if you commit acts of murder and wound against a part of society, it's a crime against humanity, no statute of limitations, and when the time comes, we'll ask for it. I salute you all with love, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0147par0979	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Sequential Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations Act 14. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that the phrase "intensities" of his joke be changed to "conditions." Süleyman Çelebi Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 14th Article (c) and (c) benchmarks of the Law Bill on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid Ali Halaman (c) The withdrawal of the shares in cash and at least 51 per cent of the shares in the numerals (c) "It is the first joke (e) of the 12th Article of the Law (e) and (f) that there is at least one million Turkish liras and at least five million Turkish liras for other payment companies" Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0148par0998	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0147par0999	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0149par1000	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0147par1001	Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0150par1004	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. I'd like to welcome the Minister. I was just starting to talk, Minister. You're gone. I kept my word so that it wouldn't be unfair to Mr. Yilmaz. After all, we spoke behind your back yesterday, so that it might not be unfair to you, but when we came here today, I made a promise to tell you to your face. We talked about this proposal upstairs, and I told our friends about the bill payments, but I'll just say it's about the cash withdrawal of those shares. We said at least 51 percent, and our friends were going to work on a ratio, but the AKP group has no motion on this issue. In case there's any trouble tomorrow, I've submitted the motion to remind you, I don't know, to your attention. Because in public companies, we've made this motion that if there's anyone in these banks who does it, if they're open to the public, they might not do it this time. Our friends have been critical upstairs, so I'll give you one more time. Yesterday -- I said I was unfair to you -- and I asked you upstairs, actually, but when you were interviewing him during the Commission, you didn't really answer him. This interest lobby debate has been going on for days, Mr. Secretary. I also showed our friends what I showed you here yesterday in September in the morning paper, during the budget. There was something in the daily Sabah that said to make you pay the people wrong. There was a subtitle with Mr. Simsek, who was here yesterday -- our Vice President -- that put too much money under the table because he didn't drop the interest. And there was something that said, "The Lobbyists are going to be angry." There was a subtitle with him. I didn't bring it now, I shared it with my friends yesterday. I mean, in this case, we're wondering if there really is an interest lobby. Mr. Prime Minister blames the banks, but he confesses from the other side -- he says that those of us who came in our era and said that we've doubled it to five in ten years are against us today. Now, in that case, does the Prime Minister not confess to feeding and raising this interest lobby himself? He said in his own speech: "We are five times richer in our day. This is the first one. Second, we're complaining about banks. I told you yesterday, eight of the top 10 tax-paying companies are bank-valued friends. Mr. Prime Minister is angry, saying: "Dear citizens, you go to the public bank....... E, half is a public bank, and half is an interest record holder, and they're in between the top 10 companies with what they get from interest and banking revenues. And I'm asking you now as Minister of Economics: isn't that abuse of the judge situation? Mr. Prime Minister's statement, "Don't go to that bank, go to this bank." Is it against competition law or not? Our friends are here, and the president of the BDK is here. If someone else said that, if they discredited this bank, go to this bank, don't deposit it to him. Is it okay with competitive law? I mean, if there's a criminal, we have no objection. Look, whatever it is, Mr. Prime Minister, whoever's doing this against this country, if he's a financial threat to this government, if he's lobbying financially, if he wants to upset our markets, it's your job to find out who's responsible, and it's our job to take care of him. But, if we talk and leave it at that... we want to create a phobia, we want to create another one, but there's no answer, there's no telling what it is, there's no telling who it is. Well, we're looking at banks, all of which are among the most profitable. We're looking at the newspapers, and they once blamed you, too, from the archives, called the fiscal lobby. So, how's this going to work when the straw's all mixed up? When the interest goes down, when it goes up, who wins, somebody's got to come and tell it. We're saying it, but it's not listening to what we're saying. It's not good for those who have the funds, but it's good for those who have them -- if they have them -- for those who have them -- for those who have them -- for those who have them -- for those who have them -- for those who have them -- for those who have them. But there's a confusion here. Besides, the Competition Agency still hasn't issued a valid decision on these banks, Mr. Secretary. There are three public banks in this. I'm talking about the fines imposed on this deal: 140-plus million, 90 million, one 40 million. Public banks have fines to pay, and they're still in the air. Since we've seen you here, we've had a few more questions -- a few more questions -- but let's ask them with your wisdom here, and maybe you'll get a chance to answer later, make a promise, and let's not blame you, too. Mr. Yilmaz just arrived. If you enlighten us in these matters, we can prevent such confusion in public and make it easier for Mr. Prime Minister to do his duty, I offer my regards.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0151par1013	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Sequential Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations Act 14. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that the phrase "intensities" of his joke be changed to "conditions." Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0152par1020	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0151par1021	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0153par1022	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0151par1023	Mr. Turgut Dibek of the 40s. Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0154par1026	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to our motion on the 14th Amendment. First of all, I salute you, dear friends. We've actually got some very important issues in the country's busy agenda. Some of this may be forgotten, or second-guessed, I want to say one of them myself. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary, when Mehmet Simsek was here, I asked him. Dear friends, on Turkish Airlines, I believe today has been the 37th day, and there has been a strike for 37 days. It's an important issue, actually, but at this point, it seems to be completely off the agenda, especially by the government. So, when we look at the beginning of the strike, why did the workers go on strike, why did the Turkish Airlines workers go on strike, maybe our society, you, the public didn't get that much, they didn't understand. But I asked Mr. Simsek yesterday, whether he was our Minister of Transport, and there was an explanation for our Minister of Labour -- our Labour Minister, they clearly took sides with the employer, so they had to be neutral. Mr. Minister, I mean, of course, if we look at the Turkish Airlines stock price, although the majority seems to be private, in a sense, in that golden-sharing way, it's the government, or in a sense, it follows, it determines. But clearly to the employer, don't worry, do what you think, we're right behind you. We don't crush you -- and there's a fashion term -- we don't feed you right now. They've been spoken in terms of words, and they've stopped talking. How did it get cut? One-sided cut. The employer said that at the end of the 60-day meeting: I interrupt these talks unilaterally. And right now, in a sense, he forced workers, Turkish Airlines employees to strike. Now, as we look at it, we have these rights in our Constitution, which, in Article 54 of the Constitution, is a fundamental right to Grev's rights, and they can use that right to strike to get employees' rights. Likewise, the meeting and demonstration rights in Article 34 and we've seen these rights in recent days, but they're on paper. So there are these rights, but you can't use them, if I let you use them. In Turkey, unfortunately, we've reached a point. From time to time, voice of power, you, the ministers say Turkey has become a highly respected, respected country. Dear friends, if we've become a truly respectable, respectable country, there are 176,000 people working on the airline in Turkey, and when we add all the privacy, 14,000 of them are unionists, not even 10 percent of them are secure. Now, there's an understanding that can't stand 10 percent of that 176,000. They're finally forced to strike, the employer says we're removing the rights of people who demand their legal rights when they're being forced to strike, what we call earned rights, what we call acquitive rights. I looked at the 22nd term contract, and there are some rights there, so they're going to strike, and they say: "We sat down in the 22nd period, we talked, you gave us these rights, you gave us these rights before." What are they? Here are the rights for overtime, severance pay, other rights, working hours. Now, in the 23rd term, the contract says one-sided employer: I remove them, so I raise your weekly working hours from thirty to thirty-six. I reduce your time on long flights, I reduce you from thirty-six hours to twenty-four hours, I withdraw the rights I have given you. Now, the workers say, "Why are you taking back our rights?" Let this go on. It has been removed one-sided. Now, the other issue -- since it's short term -- should be seen here -- is that I think the law, dear friends, does not give the employer the right to hire new workers, employees, during this strike period of time. Just as the workers on strike have no other means of employment, the employer should not have taken another employee, but since then Mr. Bululi Yıldırım -- I mentioned it yesterday -- Mr. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said: "We are with the Turkish Airways administration." Don't worry, it will be done whatever it takes. The workers who went on strike were replaced by temporary workers. Of course, each of us wants the service to fail, and so do we, so all our citizens do, but the rights of those workers must be protected. So, what just happened? The strike was completely in the air. You take care of yourself. You can strike as many times as you want, it doesn't matter to us, it doesn't do any harm. It's reached a point like this, in this dense agenda of the country. I'm running out of time, so I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, please take this on your agenda. As a government, set up a bridge between employers and workers between the union and re-open communication channels for the end of this strike. We're asking you to do this because these people, they're doing their best, and they have a huge contribution to Turkey at the point where Turkish Airlines arrived today, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0155par1036	Mr. Dibek, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 14th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. In his joke, we propose and provide that his statement be changed to,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Eyidoğan Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0156par1047	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0155par1048	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0157par1049	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0155par1050	Mr. Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP. Mr. Yellowhead, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0158par1053	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the bill of law on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins. I hereby salute you with my deepest love and respect. Now, Mr. AKP Government and Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan have looked at the crisis and public actions in Turkey in the ten-year period, until the recent Gezi events, and I'd like to see how he's been able to read and succeed or manage the crisis. For example, did he conduct the process correctly in the process of differentiating or openings, particularly Romanian expansion, and starting with the first Kurdish expansion in the southeast, or, in other words, PKK expansion? In the process there, if you remember, the right management and crisis have never been able to manage and fail. There, suddenly, people were hoping, and even the judge went to the edge of the border, where he managed the process in a very unsuccessful way with a different view. Again, in this process, if we look quickly at the Baghdad, Iraq relations, the Iraqi relations, as well as the Baghdad relations in the process, the crisis has not been handled well, and the crisis between the Baghdad government and Turkey is still not resolved. Even when a minister went to Iraq, there was no landing of his plane. Once again, when we look at the process of a crisis involving Israel, the Prime Minister and the government have not managed this crisis properly. In particular, he was unable to intervene in the process of oil exploration in southern Cyprus, and although he spoke very harshly during that process, he could not successfully conduct the process with our ships and surround it with threats, and he could not continue the search for oil against Israel by international companies and he could not protect Turkey's rights. Again, about Israel, the ship being shipped in that process and the process of attacking the ship by Israel and the killing of the citizens there, again, the government, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was unable to manage the issue. Very valuable MPs, I'm going again. When we came to our relations with Syria, although there was also a very threatening process that began with the crash of a plane and within the aircraft process, the process that began with Syria came here today, but it was also threatening, but it did not work out again. If we continue again, after this process, 34 of our citizens in Uludere were unable to manage the crisis of the bombing of our planes, still find out how they were looking for a solution in this process, and the court, after all, sent the civil court back to the military court, and again failed to carry out the shooting process of our citizens there. Again, the failures of Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his government to manage crisis processes continue to continue. As with the failures in Syrian policy, he has not yet managed the blast process at the Syrian border crossing, and has yet to share the outcome for Turkish public and Syria. Again, according to official records from Reyhan, this process, which resulted in the deaths of 52 of my citizens and was carried out in the bombing process by Turkey, was not well managed by Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the government in Turkey. So Recep Tayyip Erdogan continued his failures in crisis management and under Turkish rule. Again, looking back from this process, Recep Tayyip Erdogan was unable to direct the reading of the Travel Park and the movement that began with the Travel Park. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, in my next speech on this subject, I will continue this crisis management. I thank you very much, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0159par1067	Mr. Yellowhead, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations Act 16th. Article 1. We propose and supply that the joke be changed to the finder's note in the joke. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Sarıbaş Süleyman Çelebi I'm having the next motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th Amendment bill on the current Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0160par1085	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0159par1086	Government?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0161par1087	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0162par1088	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0159par1089	Mr. Korkmaz of Isparta, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0163par1091	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to share with you a problem related to the Sincan-Ankara-Kayash suburban line and about 400-500,000 Ankara residents who have been referred to the National Movement Party by our citizens. About two and a half years ago, the Sincan-Ankara-Kayash suburb line was removed from the service by the government of the State Railways to be rebuilt under the name BASKENTRAY. During this time, the tender has been tendered and the Public Contraction Agency has cancelled the tender. This line, which our densely small-income people use, has been shut down by the administration, and our people living in these areas have been victimised. Rightfully, our citizens ask: Why has the government's railroad administration shut down the line without a tender? Why didn't the contractor deliver the field to the firm after the tender was completed while the line was running? Why hasn't the line been redesigned since the Public Contractor's Office cancelled the tender? Why did the Transport Ministry dump this line when this line was supposed to be run on a cheap and one-way social-government basis? When will this popular persecution end? As the National Movement Party, I would like to say once again that we are waiting for the answers and that we will be followers of this question. Dear lawmakers, is there anything in all our criticism that we can take advantage of? How can we benefit? I see with regret that you understand and listen with a condescending attitude, such as the words of the opposition. Of course, the role of the opposition is to criticize the government, to oversee the government politically. If he doesn't do that, he's not doing his job. But, dear friends, what a person, a party, us, and you, all say is true and everything is wrong. The virtue of democracy is to choose the truth in what is said, in what is said, to keep the truth pure behind the truth. Look, some economists are pointing fingers at important truths. They say that Turkey should set up a new development strategy, set up a new industrial strategy, because as of today, your industry policy, which you present to the public and adorned with fancy words, is nothing more than to build the industry. The policy you're conducting leads the industrialist to build, grow, and then build, build residences instead of building. You leave no choice but to enter the construction site. Our ungrowing industry, alien, enforcer, monopoly industry, loses its competitiveness first, then its existence. Again, they say that the exports of Turkey are still in the textile sector. There is no way you can deal with China and the Far East, which is cheap and insecure in this area. The end of this road seems dark. You're talking about an important automotive export. But automotive exports are more importers; you're moving the money out more than you're buying. However, let's encourage strangers to produce them. You're in a mood. Turkey has surrendered to the enormous power of foreign companies in almost every area. You don't have a meaningful competitive policy. Shouldn't your competitive strength become deep as you go outside? It doesn't work that way, Turkey is becoming more and more monopolist and oligopolist. Our banking system, which will encourage production, has become increasingly commercial in your time, and has withdrawn from investment banking. Guys, that's not wrong. You must heed these words, such warnings, whether you like them or not. You know that, and you know very well, it's not wrong. Then at least heed our strict warnings, and heed our strict warnings. These are the views of the market's technicians who do this and work in these sectors. To the extent that you consider these views, our nation, our country will benefit, or else, in the case of your nose, you will suffer, not just you, but a whole nation. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0164par1101	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations Act 16th. Article 1. We propose and supply that the joke be changed to the finder's note in the joke. Ali Sarıbaş (Chanakkale) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0165par1108	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0164par1109	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0166par1110	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0164par1111	Mr. Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0167par1114	Thank you, Mr. President. In the sequel of my last speech, I said: The government can govern the state, the government, politics, but it has never managed the state, and I especially want to emphasize this -- as I said -- has not succeeded in any crisis, and has failed the Turkish state in Turkey and in the world. Now, we've lost a lot of citizens in the previous processes that began with Travel Park. There can never be a government or power in his country, despite the people, against the will of the people, against the will of the people, against the will and the will of the people, that says that I must stand before him. For him, the solution in democracy, in democratic countries, is that the government listens to the voice of the people. For him, along with Travel Park, in the process... last year I gave a written question motion to the Interior Ministry in November 2012. I asked this question in my motion: Why would the Ankara police and Turkish police force prefer the Police General Directorate to buy so much gas, another pepper gas bomb? Why is he stockpiling for ten years? Has there been a feeling of mobilization in our country? I continued my questions, "Is there a measure against this? " Now, again, the answer I received, however, was that the price of this was $50, and otherwise there was no answer to a different written answer. But I'm coming in today to ask you the facts of why the government, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, tried to establish a police state. I'm really starting to agree. Again, given that it's being discussed at the bottom of the subcommittee, and you've also brought up the authority to import heavy weapons to the Police Department, which is what we're seeing more clearly in the face of this problem that I gave a year ago. Sir, with three or five marauders searching the green area, without understanding that the tents were burned in the morning and in public and despite the public, I will not be a politician. There was no other purpose for him to attack in the sense of a police, in the sense of a dictator. If we want Turkey and the world's democratic system to work, it is not right for all people to use the state's police force, police department or weapons at such a time, especially in the face of these events that have begun with the private life, life, the deposits, the Travel Park. I'm just trying to get to the bottom of this: do we need the EU Ministry, Mr. Secretary? Will this Ministry be shut down? What does the Sovereign Donation do? What has he done so far? Is there a step forward that he's achieved? How many employees work in the EU ministry, how much are they paid? How much does the ministry cost the government a year? Because as we look at the last year as the Ministry of the European Union opened, we see that no success has been achieved in Europe. Who's been in and out of the Istanbul Stock Exchange in the last month? In exchange for foreign currency, the people coming out of the Istanbul Stock Exchange have turned into foreign currency? Who are they? US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger says: "In our own country we destroy traitors, but in other countries we make those who betray their people heroes in their country. When we look at the history of countries, we see that those who rule their country are either written in the history books as heroes or traitors. Heroes who serve their country and people, build them, save them, do them; traitors who harm their country and people, who sell their country to foreign and domestic collaborators, who pursue their country's resources, who burn them down. When we look at our history, we know that in the six hundred years of Ottoman times 38 kings, hundreds of government rulers, are famous for their heroism. We also know those who work together with empirical countries who have sold their country, who are after their country. In our 90-year-old republic, 25 prime ministers have passed hundreds of bureaucrats. History will write down who are heroes and who are traitors. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0168par1126	We're making history!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0167par1127	You read a lot!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0169par1128	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Sequential Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins bill 17th Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "declared" in his joke be changed to "placed." Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Veli Ağbaba Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Compensation and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins Bill 17th Article 1. We propose that the phrase "if it doesn't operate for more than six months, the six-month period is up" will be changed to "the three-month period is up if it doesn't function for more than three months." İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Leader Do you agree with the last motion read by the Commission?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0170par1145	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0169par1146	Government?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0171par1147	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0169par1148	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0172par1150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've made a commitment to the relevant motion, but since our National Defence Minister is here, I'm going to share with the General Assembly the information of a human drama, a legal massacre in Bingol, and I'm going to ask the Minister to make a statement about it here. Honorable MPs are registered to the population of the village of Hazarşah in Solhan district of Bingley Province, Turkey. A. In 2011, a 14-year-old girl was sexually abused and raped by eight expert sergeants. We didn't have any information about the details of the incident until today, but two days ago, we were aware of it because it was leaked to the press and because the family showed some sensitivity to it. Six of the attending sergeants involved in this rape were arrested first, but were later released with an appeal. I mean, there's an inhuman rape claim on a 14-year-old girl, and all the people involved in this case have not been suspended at the moment, nor have they faced any sanctions due to the legal process. We're dealing with such a legal scandal, such a moral depletion, such a killing of humanity, an end-and-death situation. Bingol public opinion, the people of Bingol, are in a full-blown state of influence on the issue. For three days, the people have been walking on it, and they are determined not to leave the street without concrete steps about it, nor to shout out their loudest voices. Mr. Secretary knows very well that for the past three months, we've been interviewing him to prevent police stations in the village where this girl is registered. They want to build a police station in the middle of the Caspian village. We, the world view of the people there, the religious feelings, the lifestyles, the culture of these people, the objections of these people, to the Minister. Until today, there's been a senseless insistence that this outpost was built in the middle of the village, and it's still not abandoned. Now we learn that the soldiers at the police station you built in that village, the children of Bingol, the children of the Caspian village, are walking amongst us with all sorts of inhumanities. There was a similar incident a month ago. We've submitted a question motion; so far, not a single procedure has been made. An expert sergeant tortures a seven-year-old child with lymphoma cancer in the middle of the street, with physical battery. Against that, there's physical abuse and torture on the mother who opposes it, but this sergeant is still in charge, still no arrest warrants, no different process. Look, this is where we shared this judicial mechanism in Bingol. A high school student was sentenced to life in prison with false indictments only because he came to our election office during the election. In Bingol, university students were sentenced to decades of punishments because of their halaying. Since the water was not flowing for ten days in Bingöl, investigations have been filed against those who participated in the protest. Our Deputy Mayor of Karliova, with a severe illness report, was sent to prison, despite all severe medical reports. This judgment is now incumbent on protecting the people who raped the Bingol children, and the government does not carry out its responsibility in this matter. The Minister of National Defence must immediately announce that these rapists have been dismissed, and the Minister of Justice must declare immediately that he has followed this process, that he has been tasked with eliminating this legal scandal. Tomorrow, along with our co-Chair and MP delegation, we will have a mass reaction again in Bingol. By the time this problem is resolved, the public will be on the street and will expect a solution from the government. By the way, just now, they called again from Bingol. You're investigating the participants in the water protest... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I have a word with you for a minute?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0173par1158	I can't open it again, there's no half a minute. Here you go, I'm not interrupting.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0172par1160	Then let's take our word on the next motion.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0173par1161	Suit yourself, as you wish.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0172par1162	Yeah, we're gonna say something for a minute. So now...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0174par1163	Open, open...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0175par1164	It's open, Mr. Idris, it's open.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0176par1165	Okay, it's open.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0177par1166	Yes, indictments are being filed against those who participated in the water protest. They just called me again. Let the AK PARTY take notes here. Citizens have not been watered for three days due to a dispute between the city of Bingol and the municipality of Youth -- both from the AK PARTl -- in which thousands of people live. Now, when these people are out on the street tomorrow, there will be indictments against them again. These will be tried to be disciplined by the prison, and the rapists will roam the streets of Bingol. We expect the government to make a statement about all these matters, and the EC PARTY will hear the voice of the people of Bingol. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0176par1168	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0178par1169	Mr. Secretary won't say anything? The Minister has been asked to explain.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0179par1170	Minister of the Interior, Minister of the Interior... belongs to the Ministry of Interior.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0176par1171	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Sequential Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Coins bill 17th Article 1. We propose and supply that the joke be changed to the location. Veli Agha (Malatia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0180par1177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0176par1178	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0181par1179	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0176par1180	Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I've been doing politics for 20 years. I joined student activities, joined student activities after September 12th. Starting as a student, I've served hundreds of rallies, hundreds of actions, both as activists and as rally managers.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0183par1185	Mashallah!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1186	Dear friends, as I first went out on the street, on my way to Salam, on my way to the square of a city, like hundreds of thousands of people, unfortunately -- thanks to you -- I came out on a helmet as a deputy trying to do the legislature, like thousands of people.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0184par1188	Isn't that against the Civil Code, wearing a helmet?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0185par1189	The legislature isn't there, the legislature is here.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1190	Again, as a congressman, friends...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0185par1191	The legislature won't be there.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1192	You should be ashamed of that.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0186par1193	Give it to him, let him wear it.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1194	Again, as a congressman, I went out with that gas mask first. After that, it wasn't enough, it wasn't enough with the gasses, but then I bought a pair of glasses, a pair of sunglasses.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0187par1195	It's not enough, it's not enough.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1196	These are all props. What accessories? The accessories of a congressman, a member of parliament who's trying to take control of democracy. What is this, Recep Special? It's a helmet. What's this? These glasses. Look, dear friends, it wasn't enough, this mask wasn't enough, so I took this from you guys.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0188par1199	Put it on.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1200	Look, it's about 250 lira worth of a mask, dear friends. And that wasn't enough...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0188par1202	Show it to the Minister, and the Minister will see it.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1203	Let the Minister see it. Dear friends, this mask is worth $250.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0189par1205	How much did you buy them for?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1206	With what? These examples of your democracies with gas bombs and flares...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0189par1207	Where did you get those?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1208	Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, could this have anything to do with democracy? Look, in what part of the world does an MP come out to the Saloon Square wearing a helmet? What square in the world does a Redbeard come up with a gas mask?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0189par1209	Don't go!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1210	What kind of democracy is that?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0190par1211	They've never been used.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1212	Why? Because you have nothing to do with democracy, precious MPs.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0190par1213	Mr. Veli, they haven't been used.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1214	Dear friends, why did these actions begin? These actions began to protect valuable MPs, trees. They first laid in front of the ladle, primarily Republican People's Party MPs, and then fought in tents. What have you done with this act that began as the world's most peaceful act? You burned it, you destroyed it, you fired it, you kicked it, and you beat it, and in the morning you tried civil war with young people -- we don't know what proportions are if we call them proportions -- you attacked with fire, and you rehearsed civil war with the young people who did the most peaceful act of Turkey. The group of 30 to 40 grew bigger with your gas, with your TOMA, with your rubber bullets, millions. Not just my taxi, but all of Turkey has flowed into the squares, everyone is united. The people who voted for the AKP and the ones who didn't vote for the AKP and the people who didn't vote for the CHP, the CHP, the BDP, and you -- all joined together and cried out at once; they said, "God be damned, fascism." As you guys drove away, the more they bombed, the more they fused, the more they cried out. All of Turkey cried out, in all the squares, in Malatya, in the Kızılay, in the division: they cried out shoulder to shoulder against Fascism. Dear friends, all of this, unfortunately, has made us the number one news in the world, as in many cases. Look at what happened in 22 days, could it be in a country that has something to do with democracy? You tried to violently silence peaceful acts, these constitutional rights. You've used hundreds of TOMAs, over 130,000 gas bombs, and I'm afraid my eyes are still burning, dear friends. My eyes are still burning from this gas. Look, there are gas bombs in the envai genre. It's still -- maybe it's affecting our friends -- my eyes are burning. The one with the chemical in it...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0191par1216	We're looking at a new campaign.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1217	You put chemicals in the water and attacked people with TOMA ▪, especially our deputies. Dear friends, it wasn't enough, not just the people in the square, but the people in the hotels, the houses, the restaurants, the cafes, and you did something that wasn't even done in the war...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0192par1219	A cafe? That's a shame.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1220	I'm afraid you've attacked the infirmarys and hospitals with gas bombs.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0192par1221	It's not a gas bomb, it's pepper spray, it's pepper spray!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0182par1222	You attack, you attack, you attack with great hatred, you strike with great hatred, you attack, precious friends, you attack as if you were attacking the enemy. You attacked him from time to time, forgetting he voted for you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll go on with the other stuff. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0193par1226	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Please get them out of there.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0194par1228	Have him pick them up, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0195par1229	I'll bring them again, Recep Special. I'll bring them back to you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0196par1230	Give him that bomb, put it in his mouth, so he doesn't talk.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0195par1231	I'm peaceful, I'm not throwing them away, I'm not from the AKP!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0197par1232	You finally need to turn on a flag.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0198par1233	Yes, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 18 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Sequential Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "extra" in his joke be changed to "existent." Veli Ağbaba Süleyman Çelebi Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bkent Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0199par1243	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0198par1244	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0200par1245	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0198par1246	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0201par1247	Mr. Veli Agha.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0198par1248	Veli Agha, Malatya. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0202par1251	Sir, we've seen the supplies. Is that a thing, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1252	Mr. President will find out, and you'll find out.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0202par1253	Sir, would you advise him to act in accordance with the Civil Code?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0204par1254	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1255	Friends to be obeyed by the Civil Code. Dear friends, I'm afraid this is an accessory to the MP thanks to you. Look, it's the congressman's accessory.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0205par1257	That's not the congressman's accessory.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1258	It's just that you've been so lopsided, so extreme... do you know why all of this is happening? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, why did you bore them? Why am I wearing this?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0206par1259	Mr. President, he can't wear this.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1260	We wear them for future stones, plastic bullets, future gas bombs and pepper spray. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I congratulate you on your success! You know, you guys have done such important things that you've all done together that would make Hitler jealous of Hitler, which Hitler didn't even think of, and I congratulate you!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0207par1262	Take off the mask!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1263	Hitler was building small gas chambers, and you turned the whole country into a gas chamber. Kenan was proud of the universe, and now there's another one who's proud of you, and that's Hitler!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0208par1265	Who, who?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1266	Dear friends, the Minister of National Education said: "We have achieved in five days what the opposition has not done for years.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0209par1267	Mr. Veli, your mask has fallen off!
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1268	I'll tell you what you've accomplished: 7.822 people were injured, 4 people were killed, 59 people were injured, 100 people were head traumatized, 4 people in Istanbul 1, 1, 6 people in Eskişehir are still in danger, 11 people have lost their eyes, 1 person's spleen has been taken away, and you have threatened hotels that opened their doors to young people, wounded in action. In the end, the Minister threatened the banks: "Don't throw stones out the window," he said. He threatened me, frankly, Mr. Secretary, and I'm congratulating him.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0210par1269	He's not a threat, he said it was a case.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0211par1270	Mr. Veli, the AKP's mask has fallen.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0203par1271	And you couldn't afford it, so you brushed it. You handcuffed the doctors who treated the people who were injured -- let anyone who was a doctor -- from behind -- and you investigated the doctors. While all this was going on, Mr. President said, "Message has been received." Mr. Arinc has admitted that excessive force has been used. The United States of America has three counts of police violence. The international press has stood up. Social media, that troublemaker, the social media that's trouble, has been shaken. Human rights organizations condemned Turkey, Europe condemned you. Dear MPs, once again I congratulate the AKP, you have not only united the opposition in Turkey but also Europe! Look, you combined conservatives, socialists, liberals, Greens, Christian Democrats in Europe, and they all condemned you. I'm afraid you don't understand that either. What did you do? You blamed everyone. You criticised the European Union, the United States, which you greeted yesterday, and we don't know you. Dear friends, you've done one thing, which is impossible to accept. Dear friends, I am a good Malatyasporian and a good Galatasaray. I'm in the mood for yellow and red. Of all the fans in the world, you have publicly declared the most sensitive, sensitive, most sympathetic, most witty, most supportive team, the Market, the most shameless terrorist. (HPP) That's the market where the esteemed MPs were, before you were there in that Van earthquake. He had a market when he sent poor children to school, when he put a blanket over the children of the street, when he fed a bowl of soup to the elderly. You made that Market a terrorist. I congratulate you! You have not only united Europe, America, precious MPs, but you, the liberals who said yes until yesterday, and even Swoboda, who defended you against our President yesterday, I congratulate you, I congratulate you, I congratulate you! You who have done such important things to Turkey this period, dear friends, that until yesterday, those who did not know you -- I tell you in truth -- people who thought you were sensitive to basic rights and rights, human rights -- have now seen your true face, and you've been hiding it for years and years, and your oppressive, dictator face, which you've been so successful in not showing up. In other words, the AKP's cover has been blown. Dear friends, the mask has fallen, and what did everyone, the whole of Turkey, the whole world, who understands democracy, human rights? The king is naked. He said, friends, the king is naked. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0212par1277	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0213par1278	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement regarding the expression used by the didictator.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0212par1279	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0213par1282	Dear President, Congressmans, human history is a process of changing the chaos of the street into order and moving to Parliament. No mind is out of the idea of order, and a governance, a governance through an idea of order, and as a result, the democracy, democratic systems that the human mind has discovered, within which the political system and its tools have not gone out of the way. Now, if you face the opposite situation -- instead of turning street irregularity into administration through Parliament -- it would be reverseing human history if you took an irregularity out of Parliament and turned it into a street. Now, how many responses can be given in two minutes about what kind of taunting, what expression to answer? I just said, "We each create a model of the world in our minds, and we think of this model of the world as the world itself, and we fall into such a delusion." Now, Mr. Speaker, that's how he perceives these events from his world model, he sees them, he tells them, but it has nothing to do with our reality and where we stand. However, because of the alleged chemical use of chemicals, on the other hand, what people did under doctor's clothing was also reflected in the press. I don't think it makes any sense to discuss it here again. But now that I know what purpose the speaker is having in this conversation here, I can't say anything anymore. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0214par1292	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 18th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th Amendment bill on the current Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Mr. Commission, do you agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0215par1302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0214par1303	Government?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0216par1304	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0217par1305	Motive...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0214par1306	I'm reading the reason: The reason for the bill is to adapt to the EU acquish, to fill the legal gap in the field of systems, payment services and electronic monetary boards, as well as to define the healthy development of the areas, the definition of the main concepts, rights and obligations and the need to determine investments. The EU directives and the bill of law on these grounds are being drafted, as part of Turkey's National Programme in 2008, as part of the Free movement of Capital and the drafting of the Payment Systems Act as part of Fiscal Services Fasiliars. The EU, however, is no longer paying much attention to Turkey, which is the basis for the arrangements, and unfortunately there is no progress in the talks on the chapters mentioned. Therefore, the bill should be prepared, not by EU directives, but by considering Turkey's needs. In addition, when the payment agencies were identified, they were all collected under one item. However, he has been involved in many research and reports of money laundering through payment agencies in many different ways. The regulations must be adopted in a way that does not lead to money laundering and contains detailed provisions. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of the 24th Article of the Bill on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations, We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the article text. Mehmet Günal Ali Öz Nevzat Don't be afraid Is the commission in?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0218par1324	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0214par1325	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0219par1326	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0214par1327	Mr Mehmet Günal, Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0220par1330	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I've mentioned two motions before about content, but what we're saying here, it seems like our friends aren't paying much attention. The Ministry and the Commission can make a statement whenever they want. Let me tell our esteemed Commissioner that both of these were the things we were talking about upstairs, both about capital and about billing. There's something important here, so I made a promise again. The exception of the PTT Bank is held in this article, so we don't find it right. They just look at it as a state institution that doesn't reprocess the conditions of the establishment, but we, the National Movement Party, don't think it's right to have the name PTT Bank. And I told you in the bill on the International Convention Against the Financing of Terror that we've already agreed to, because they said that these money transfers, which are not from the bank, which are not part of the money laundering methods around the world, that our friends there -- we don't need to give us their name -- were built over some organizations that we agreed the previous day at the G-8 meeting that the OECD would have to be careful about that again. So, on one hand, I've told you in general that I still don't understand the logic of privateizing public banks, calling PTT, on the other hand, PTT, on the other hand, on the other hand, to subcontract some banking services, Mr. Minister. So our president of the BDK knows that he's granted permission to do so before he's given it, and then he's supposed to be called PTT Bank so he doesn't have to be a banker when he gives it to him. It's not a camel, it's not a bird, it's an ostrich, something we don't know. I mean, what's the point, why would PTT be providing these services? He's gonna be a banker? And then we said, "Are we going to privatize PTT, or are we going to do it with that permit?" Now, we're here to make exceptions for him to take advantage of things. So that's not true, especially in secondary arrangements. You can accept it here with the majority of power, but I also said that in other matters, regulations and notifications must be carefully removed to prevent them. That's what we're not gonna look at. There's a lot going on in court every day. It's about public institutions, it's about public employees, it's about other people, it's about banks, it's about what I'm talking about -- they're able to get to the point where they can agree between themselves and create a pay monopoly. So I think it's our job to arrange this right here. In this context, we don't think it's right for PTT (PTT) to be involved in such things, and I don't think it's right for them to be made exceptions in this way. Let me warn you one last time when I'm here. Note that even if you don't take it here, at least note our sensitivities while you're doing their secondary arrangement, that once you're out of here, the regulations for this should be removed shortly. Mr. Secretary, there's an arrangement here for him, and we told him to withdraw in six months, but in a year, all secondary arrangements have to be made. At least while they're being done, these sensibilities need to be taken care of, and our institutions -- whether it's a public institution or a private institution -- need to be avoided. Because we got that contract out of here, we signed the international contract. In the same way, we continue in the action force of the OECD. Thanks to our friends, as I told you before, they agreed to join the MASAK in drafting the regulations. We've delivered their rights upstairs, but when it happens like this, I'm giving you the attention of the fact that we've created a freak of nature. In this framework, I give you once again my regards, that we don't find it right to make the exception of PTT (PTT) -- which we don't think is the right way to conduct these operations.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0221par1339	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 24th article is accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 25th article is accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 26th article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers Articles 27 to 43, including Articles 27, including Articles 40, (1), (2), (3), and (3), and (4). Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt has been asked to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0222par1350	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the second chapter of Bill 473. I salute you all. First of all, a lot of our friends repeated it in chapter one, but I'd like to emphasize it one more time. The reason for the release of this law is highlighted as follows: ▪ Turkish National Programme for Overcoming the European Union Acquistion. Because of this, we make this law. We are now bringing up an event that has long been lacking and Turkey has experienced a serious economic crisis, but I think that Turkey's environment should be reviewed once again. Does the acquish of the European Union just require us to make this law, or do we need to make other laws? In an environment where long imprisonment in Turkey, freedom of rights in Turkey, freedom of meeting and demonstration march in Turkey has been completely eliminated, who is the Prime Minister of the European Union when the acquisitor makes this law? I don't know you, I'm not dealing with you. In such a conflicting environment, the fact that such a law is based on the basis of the European Union has not been very accurate and very convincing. In all the provinces of Turkey, especially because of Gezi Park, in all the districts of Turkey, in an environment where people express certain reactions on the road to rights, on the road to freedoms, the reason for these people's reactions should have been investigated, taken some steps to repair them, but unfortunately, I know what I say is what I say. These actions are a little wider, a little wider, a little wider because they are being carried out in logic. Now, it's up to Turkey to ensure the freedom of our people's rights, the freedom of our people's meetings and the freedom of demonstration, rather than improving the economic possibilities of financial capital. Let's do things in this direction; let's change the Law on Political Parties, change the Law on Associations, change the law on long imprisonment, make the opportunities to free our arrested MPs, but, unfortunately, now we're making a law on payment and equity understanding, and while we're doing that law, we're still doing wrongs because we're acting in the same way as we always do. Look, in chapter two, we're seriously referring to secondary legislation. We stress the need to establish regulations on 8th, 12th, 14th, 18th, 18th, 22nd and 25th, and we try to ensure that these regulations can be removed immediately, but the main law is the law. We're missing the opportunity to make this happen as soon as possible. Again, in this department, we're creating new institutions within an assessment of the main investigation, the prosecution process. We also do not create new institutions in accordance with the law, but we bring an arrangement to the European Convention on Human Rights, both against our Constitution and against our laws. Which one? Here's what we've defined in Article 36 of this law. Isn't it supposed to be the same as in the Turkish Penal Code? However, there is a difference between the embezzlement in the Turkish Penal Code and the embezzlement we now place here; there is a difference in both the practice of punishment, and there is a difference in creating a new crime, a new crime. As we discussed this in the Plan and Budget Commission, we said: "This is a matter of interest to the Justice Commission, the opinion of the Justice Commission must be taken." But unfortunately it hasn't been taken, and now we're making the wrong law because according to Article 37 of this law, the bank or the BDK will have to appeal to the prosecution in order to be investigated and prosecuted for embezzlement. So it's a special prescribing. This preliminary permit is nowhere near the Turkish Penal Code concerning embezzlement. Now that we're creating a new situation, we're bringing in a new application. For example, when an officer at the Finance Ministry commits an embezzlement charge, the prosecutor can press charges by acting directly, prosecute, but when executives in companies related to the payment systems established by this law commit embezzlement, only the Central Bank can complain to the prosecutor's office, or only the Banking Editing and Control Board can appeal to the prosecutor's office. This means a separate legal arrangement for these institutions. This is contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution, not a correct approach. Article 3628 states that the prosecutor, who has been reportedly guilty of embezzlement, will act, but with Articles 36 and 37, which we have brought in now, we make a law against this legal necessity. This Parliament must find its way, its method, its formula, because if it does not, it will commit an illegal procedure, and the Constitution will not accept it. Again, some purchases of the AKP classic, as usual, related to this law, include the possibility and the possibility of processing outside the Public Contraction Agency and the Public Contraction Act, which is not a law that can be adopted legally. In the name of what? To meet the rules of the European Union's legislation. So, in a law that's being tried to bring about rights, justice, rule of law and freedoms, we're making a law that will lead to arbitrary practices, and by relaxing the financial capital, to confuse both the legal system and the economic system of Turkey, which we can't accept, and we can't accept. Let's find a way to turn back from this error, and with amendment proposals, let's eliminate this lack of law in Articles 36 and 37. If we don't do this, we'll be faced with a wrong procedure again, and if we do, there will be a situation that will cause Turkey more chaos by creating new irregularities in a sensitive environment in Turkey. It is our duty to warn you, to come back from here, to tell you to turn back from the wrong. If you don't want to carry a responsibility in front of history, in a democratic sense, in front of the law, that's the course of action, and we'll bring it up in a formula that will bring it to order in accordance with law and rule of law. If you don't heed our warnings about this -- and you're not considering anything else -- Turkey will fall into chaos tomorrow, economically, financially. The audit of these companies, the right and proper crimes to commit in these companies... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it's necessary to carry out an investigation that will allow him to be tried in some way. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0223par1364	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Second speaker for the groups, Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP on behalf of the National Movement Party group. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0224par1368	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the second chapter of Bill 473. I salute your honorable committee. In the second chapter, sanctions, investigations and prosecution procedures are organised, and the most remarkable arrangement is in Article 40. This article changes the structure of the BDK. According to this, the number of office heads has been raised from 10 to 20, and the eight administrations can be established in the Office of Support Services. Ten lawyers will be employed for cases where the institution is a party, and the number of members of the BDK will be increased from three to five. This arrangement is actually creating new seats, and the increase in the number of members is definitely not because of a need, so these numbers are not increased by need. The (2)th joke also includes a provision for the creation of a working place for members in the locations of the institution's representatives. This arrangement shows that there is a high probability that new members are already set. Bottom line is, it's not a man's job, it's a matter of giving his own man a seat. Mubarak, it is as if this institution is being established, not the BDDK, but Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar's Institute for Adjusting Hours! In this case, Mr. Secretary, the hero of the novel is,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. The Akrep Agency, the Yelkovan Office, says "The General Directorate of Zembarek," and really bureaucratic mechanisms are being returned to an Institute for Adjusting Hours. When we look at the institutional structures of the AKP, it is possible to see that understanding. The BDDK is a necessary institution for the overall functioning of the Turkish economy, and has done very useful work so far. However, we see that the BDK is unable to fully carry out what is expected of our citizens as to their victims from the banks. Again, the main duty of the BDK is to make financial control of banks, but the growing complaints of bank customers towards banks lead to the activities of the BDDK. Unfortunately, the punishment practices of the BDDK (BDK) against these complaints have not been able to form a serious sanction so far. Again, the BDK is supposed to be a balance factor in complaints from consumers and real sectors, but it has an attitude with banks. The Administrator, who rose from the BDK, must seek his rights, even to open an additional account without even me. Such words do not suit this institution and the institution's purpose, or the spirit of the institution. Moreover, bank customers are not the only ones who complain about the BDDK. In a speech on May 8th, Economy Minister Zafer Çağan complained that banks do not reflect their falling interest rates on loans, calling it BDDK, sleep BDDK. After all, I wish that the amendments to the 40th article of the bill would be the result of these complaints against the BDK, despite all our criticism. Dear lawmakers, the bill shows us that the government is in favor of the financial sector, not production. The government, called the so-called interest lobby, brings constant, financial market regulations. The AKP prides itself on being linked to the global economy with such regulations, giving up its production economy for this purpose and crushing our citizens for the needs of the global economy. Recently, Mr. Prime Minister's remarks about the interest lobby strongly raised the need to question AKP's economic policies and relations with the interest lobby. The interest lobby has been feeding on AKP economic policies for ten years. AKP Governments have paid interest in 498 billion Turkish liras in ten years. In the 57th century, the interest payments totalled 113 billion Turkish liras. According to this, the AKP averages 49.8 billion Turkish liras per year, while the average annual interest rate in the 57th government is 37.5 billion TL. Didn't Mr. Prime Minister say that we would no longer allow interest lobbys that suck the blood out of this nation, exploit the sweat of the forehead? So how do you explain this number, this coming point? These are the statements of the Prime Minister: "When they came to meet us, we were five times richer in your day. These are the ones who say, "They're starting to mess with us these days." The Prime Minister's statement is a confession of his relations with the interest lobby, which Allah has made known. For ten years, the interest lobby has not been separate from the AKP's and the Prime Minister's. The size of their relationship is so high that the interest lobby can thank the Prime Minister, who makes them five times richer. The numbers are in the middle. The Turkish nation sees lies and waits for an apology. Another indicator of AKP's relationship with the interest lobby is the increase in our citizens' debt to banks and interest payments. The AKP's economic policies have tied the citizens' hands in front of financial institutions. For ten and a half years, the AKP has only lent our citizens to banks. Turkey's debt to the household has increased greatly, along with its AKP governments. In 2002, his debt to the household, which had 6.7 billion Turkish liras, increased to 300 billion euros in 2012. The debt to the household increased 44.7; 45 times with AKP governments. The disposable income of the household was 143 billion in 2002, while the income of the household increased to $591 billion in 2012 and increased four times in ten years. The household's debt has increased by 11 times in ten years by the amount of disposable income. Again, in 2002, every 100 Turkish liras amounted to $4.70 in debt, while that amount increased to $50.70 in 2012. That's an 11-fold increase. The increase in interest payments in the household is also remarkable. During the 2002-2012 period, it increased from 1.7 per cent to 5.7 per cent; this is an increase in interest payments. In other words, the amount of interest paid by our citizens during the AKP period increased 3.3 times. The interest lobby, which the prime minister opposes, has exploited our citizens three and a half times over ten and a half years under the AKP administration. This is our calculations, but the interest lobby says we've grown five stories. So there's another 1.5 times that we haven't detected, hopefully we'll find it, too. It also points to an increase in the amount of bank credit and credit card use in the household. And this data shows that the Turkish economy is connected to the interest lobby in ten and a half years when it is assessed by the volume of credit in the banking system. Banking is 47.7 billion dollars in 2002 and 903 billion euros in June 12, 2013, and 19 times higher. By the end of 2012, the volume of the loan is 802 billion liras, and according to this, the increase is 12.6 per cent, according to 2012. Our citizen, our tradesman, our farmer, says that the best government is the government that does not lend debt to its people, and the government that can repay its debt. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0225par1384	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of his people, Mr. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0226par1388	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, after the second part of the law, we'll vote and finish the articles. Now, I asked, but I guess I won't be getting any answers; I'll go over a few corners again, Mr. Secretary is here. There's no point in getting rid of this by complaining about the interest lobby. Second of all, we built this system ourselves as Turkey because we've been short of hot money for years. You have no right to complain about it if you encourage a low-rent system based on interest interest, on the contrary, if you do not have a competitive courtship policy to make your own goods competitive. The main economic problem in Turkey is this regime and system, which is implemented at the root of the economy that can't produce. I've told you before, Mr. Secretary, here, they accused him of being a frenzior, and some of them became gasmen; at the same time, they banged the Central Bank, and everybody said things, but the bottom line is the Central Bank isn't responsible here. Here's the government, if a minister has anything to say, as a member of the government, he has to say and make a decision in the Council of Ministers. The government determines the Kur regime, so whether it's going to be wavy, steady, controlled, wavy, or whatever, the government determines that. The Vice President of the Central Bank is here, responsible for their implementation of the courtship policy. So, there's no point in getting up and looking for a lobby inside before we figure all this out. What's the solution, dear friends? The solution to this is to reduce unemployment, increase production, increase investment, increase exports, but we will reduce unemployment, and instead of three months, change the method of computing of Turkey's Statistical Institution and ask, "Have you lost your job in one month?" See, tomorrow's next day, another 2 points will drop. How's he gonna fall? It's not going to fall from production, it's going to fall from employment, it's just going to change the method of computing. So, how do we really drop it? Here, we need to eliminate the environment that will create the interest lobby we're complaining about. You, on the one hand, will be in need of hot money, and then you'll be in the interest lobby. There's no such thing. If you don't give me that real interest, these hot money guys won't come anyway. What do you need for that? Really, we need an investment, production, export campaign. We, the National Movement Party, are always a constructive, guiding, compromiser, who embraces a concept of opposition in favor of resolution. First my country and my people, then my party, then me. We have an understanding, my friends. Let's not spend time with unnecessary laws, political conflicts, barren agendas. I've said so many times from this stand. So we said, let's set up a priority order here, whatever structural measures need to be taken. But we're still seeing our friends on the subcommittee right now -- our tax law has only arrived, and it seems difficult to keep up this season. So, what do you have to do to make this happen? We really need to build an economic structure that actually produces -- Mr. Minister said -- we've been waiting for two years, Mr. Calayan says, "Let's go." But it's nice, let's step on the gas, and the input supply system said to produce products that can be produced inside, and we're still waiting, and we still haven't been able to get a statement or a decree in practice. Yet more than 70 percent of our exports and production depend on imports. So, what are we complaining about? We can't do what we tell ourselves. We've been told here. Okay, we'll support it. We're still waiting, the tourist season has come. They say, "We have the Tourism Framework Act." I've been telling you for five years in this Parliament, in the commissions, at the beginning of the season, it still doesn't exist. So I'm afraid you're stalling us here with the debates, with the virtual agendas. Let's put these in priority order and get them out. As an MPP, we're going to tell our country what's missing in favour of our nation, if there are places that need to be completed, we're going to complete it together, and if you don't mind, we're going to complain to the citizen. But these need to come out, these are waiting. What are we doing? Sir, the so-called bargaining with this, we did it, we couldn't raise it, they're threatening us, they're squeezing us out of here. We're here, you're here, don't deal with what's against the nation, you take out the law in favor of the nation, and we'll support you. Otherwise, we're going to need these loan sharks, and we're going to need the hot money. He says we have to figure it out together, so I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0227par1396	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Congressmans, the talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to promise my friends who are in the system, and we're going to do a QA. In first place, Mr. Kuyoglu, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0228par1400	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have two questions. First of all, you've made three tenders on these rental certificates, is there a new tender? Were there any new tenders or tenders made after those three tenders? The second is today, following the statements of FED President Bernanke, the markets have been turned upside down, the stock markets and foreign currency markets have been turned upside down, and the dollar 4 has been seen in 1.92, despite 4 interferences from the Central Bank, as far as I know. I'd like your opinion on that. What kind of navigation will follow? Do we have any precautions on that? Because it's an extraordinary situation, and it looks like it's going to disrupt and disrupt all of our plans, all of our programs. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0229par1404	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0230par1406	Mr. President and Mr. Secretary, you're moving the street irregularity to the House. The group that says, "You and the vice presidents and you, I wonder, by the Ankara national education directors, have heard of the request of teachers joining the Travel Park resistance, do you have any information about these hearings? How do you feel about these individuals who are using their most natural rights to be forced to rat out by their own friends? Do you find it ethical?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0229par1407	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0231par1409	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in my speech, I was referring to the topic of the Turkish Airlines strike, but after my speech, there's also a story that's been reported to the press, and I don't know if you've followed it. There was a case against the Turkish Airlines administration regarding the strike, because the strike was illegal, because it was illegal; that case ended in the afternoon and the court rejected it, meaning the strike was legal. And I tried to make it brief in my speech, so the government's position, the ministers' position, was not quite right during the strike process, because they had taken part with the employer, and in a sense he had provoked his employer, so you can do what you want, and we can do what you want, but in the coming process, I see that in the past week, employees came to the Assembly two days ago, and we saw other political parties, including how reasonable their demands were. I mean, there's not much to go on strike with, there's a whole case of the employer's attitude. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, after this process, after the court's decision, would you be willing to contribute to the opening of these closed communications channels as a government?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0232par1414	Mr. Dibek, thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0233par1416	Thank you, Mr. President. In Tokat, as in our country, tradesmen and artists, Finance, BUG-KUR, are unable to pay their co-op debt and face default interest. That'll get them to shut down their businesses, stay out of work. Is there going to be a improvement or construction in the coming time of the tradesmen and artists who can't pay off their debts and who have to do the work? My second question: Is there a study of a new retail law, a law that the shopkeeper has been waiting for for for years about hypermarkets and supermarkets? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0234par1420	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0235par1422	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I repeat, who is the interest lobby? Is that a thing? Inside or outside? And Mr. Prime Minister, we know what everyone's doing. He says and threatens. You'll see. He'll tell us and we'll find out. The Prime Minister's job is to find out and investigate them. Otherwise, I'd like to thank you for neglecting the mission.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0236par1425	Mr. Secretary, have them come in.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0237par1426	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first let me answer the question about the rental certificates. You know, so far, two in the country, one in the country, and one in the country, has been issued by the Department of Treasury exports. These have been very successful, very high demand has been received, and there is preparation for a re-exemployment in the second half of the year, but in addition, when demand comes from the market, when demand comes, new exports can always be evaluated in line with future demands. As of today, the world's non-interested financial sector has grown to $1 trillion of $300 billion. Turkey may have been part of this system with accession banking, but we've had almost a ten-year delay in the application of a rent certificate. Maybe we started late, but last year, especially when we were abroad, he received the award for exporting the best rent certificate of the year, both in terms of design and in terms of the customer population that he could access. As for developments in global markets: you know, in fact, last month, on May 22nd, with some statements from the president of the United States Central Bank, the markets of all developing countries began to move. Although, some of our own developments, our own internal events, have almost coincided with this global movement in time, as a calendar. So some of the developments in our markets were from abroad, some from abroad. But the developments abroad, since we've been focusing too much on the inside, may have been a little ignored. However, in the last few days, it's now becoming clear that the markets have been linked to the outside. As we look at it so far, there's a lot of serious activity in the market of many developing countries, such as Brazil, which has economic magnitude in developing countries, like Russia, India, which is a little bit lower, like South Africa, Mexico. So, from May 22nd to today, this goes on. Further statements from the Bank of the United States have also increased this activity around the world in the hours of last night. So, in fact, the movement in the markets is not only for Turkey, but for all developing countries. The money units of developing countries are losing value against dollars; again, market indexes in developing countries have a decline in stock prices; again, there are increasing interest rates in developing countries. The U.S. Treasury has increased in its own debt interest. In particular, after last night's statement, there has been a significant upward movement in American debt interest for ten years. Of course, as much as America has a crisis, it's still the world's number one economy in terms of size. The decisions on that economy, especially when the dollar is a reserve money and the dollar is a currency that is used worldwide, when a decision is made about dollars, when the American Central Bank makes a decision, it doesn't just affect that country, it certainly has global impacts. When we look at the time since May 22nd, the movement in the countries I mentioned is very intense, and when we look at Brazil alone, the Brazilian Central Bank has had to sell over $10 billion from its reserve in the last two weeks, it's about controlling its own currency market, the exchange market a little bit. Therefore, this move was not unexpected. I wrote it about two or three months ago -- and it was actually written in a lot of press -- and if you look at the records of that day -- it's not a surprise that the Central Bank of America, and then the European Central Bank, and eventually, maybe not immediately, but after a while, the Japanese Central Bank will change their monetary policy, that they'll reduce the expansion rate of money policy, and then they'll stop it, and then they'll start pulling it back. The timing of this was unknown, and they had no idea when it would happen. I've already told you two or three months ago that this has to be taken care of, that it's going to start sooner or later, and that everyone needs to be ready for these actions. So, this was going to happen sooner or later, but when we look at the foundations of the Turkish economy, we have a really strong public finance structure. On the other hand, the balance sheet of our banking system is very, very strong. So, on the one hand, the market's automatic stabilizers will be monitored and directed by the measures that our relevant organizations will take more actively. On the other hand, as for the question of Turkish Airlines, you know that 51 per cent of Turkish Airlines is a public company, 49 per cent of which is a treasure company, and is now an airline that flies to 99 countries around the world. In this respect, he's number one in the world. It's actually a very successful performance, both in terms of the quality of service and in terms of the rapidly expanding service network and the rapidly expanding transit passenger. And again, Turkish Airlines is also developing along with our private airlines. Today's private airlines have become very, very effective in Turkey, the market share has risen quickly, and when you look at private airlines and their aircraft orders, when you look at the network, our aviation sector is really making a beautiful development in parallel with our economic growth. It concerns all the actors of the economy in a developing country, such as the aviation sector, civilian air transport, especially Turkey. Therefore, a company like Turkish Airlines, not even a few days, not even a few hours, the failure of flights would have very serious negative effects on our economy and other sectors, and we need to be aware of that, which could lead to very serious casualties. So, our desire, of course, is not to be wrong in Turkish Airlines, such as the strike, but to talk to the administration in some way, to sort it out amongst themselves. Otherwise, we, the government, see the strike as highly problematic, not only for the Turkish Airlines itself, but for all our economic structure and all the relevant sectors. Even though the strike is a legal right in general, when we look at Turkish Airlines in private, we see a great benefit in settling it, talking it out. It's about what to do if our tradesman can't pay his debts, you know, our Public Bank has already made it easier in the general sense about our tradesmen who are having difficulty paying their debts. Without any law, without any regulation, the board's decision has already been made easy by the individual who is having difficulty paying off his debt. At the same time, we are also implementing individual areas in areas of the region, such as floods or droughts anywhere in Turkey, as well as delaying paying social security premiums, but a common practice across Turkey is not on the agenda for today. We're already performing special practices for the problem areas, cities, counties. Our Ministry of Customs and Commerce has a preparation for retail law. After the necessary arrangements for this preparation have been made, after -- of course, this period is about to close, we are now slowly coming to the end of the work week -- although it may seem difficult during this period, I think that if the calendar is available, if the agenda is available, this legal arrangement can be discussed. Again, Mr. Günal. As for the question of Mr. Günal, this has actually been asked in the Plan and Budget Commission before, and I've answered, Mr. Günal is a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, but it's useful to repeat it here. Of course, it could be from very different circles, very different sectors, different sectors, but what's so special about it? We can easily make a description, such as those who benefit from higher interest rates. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0238par1440	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vural, you have a question.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0239par1442	Minister, you haven't answered my question.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0238par1443	Mr. Oz, just a moment...
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0240par1444	Mr. Secretary, Yunus Emre... you know, there was a fire there, 837 businesses burned down. They paid me a visit today. There's been a five thousand lira aid in resolving these damages, but... it's the burning of a business center, if you remember.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0241par1445	Where?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0240par1446	In Ankara, in Ulus. A long-term loan was promised, but there was no progress in it, the tradesman is in trouble. How are they gonna put their stuff when they're done? They wanted me to bring it up. I'd like to offer this to you on this occasion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0242par1449	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0243par1450	First of all, I didn't answer Mr. Self's question because it's completely out of my interest. I think maybe you should direct them while our relevant ministry is here.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0244par1451	Maybe, but you're from the government.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0243par1452	Or we can take the answer from our concerned minister in writing and give it to you in writing, but it can only be a solution. Or else it's something we don't quite know about.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0244par1453	So you admit something like this happened.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0243par1454	Now, as for this issue, as for our Ankara Chamber of Commerce, especially our Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, and especially our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology -- who is responsible for KOSGEB and KOSGEB -- they were soon interested in the matter, and as far as I know, an effort to finance both these damages is within the framework of COSGEB and at the same time, we have a new unit in our prime minister's office -- and I'm having a hard time remembering the name of the unit because it's just been established, but I'm having a chance to fully remember the name of this kind of problem, which is going to come into action. I know that AFAD was also interested in the matter at the time, but I honestly don't know the outcome as of today. Let's see what the outcome is. Let's find out from them.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0245par1455	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, after I've done the motion procedures on that clause, which are included in the second chapter, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 40th article (1) that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of the 40th article of the Law Bill on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. And two. We offer and propose that his jokes be removed from the article text. Oktay Vural Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Scholar Light Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0246par1479	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0245par1480	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0247par1481	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0245par1482	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0248par1483	Dear Light.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0245par1484	Scholar Light, Kütahya. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0249par1487	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 40 of Law Bill 473, which we are discussing. I hereby salute the High Council. Our proposal is that the provision for increasing the number of members of the BDK Board in this article be removed from the article text. There's got to be a reason why the number 3 has been raised to five. So far, the BDDK is known to have no serious explanation for what kind of problems these three people have had in overseeing these banks, why this need has arisen. It seems that the government needs a few supporters and a few seats, depending on that, which is why their consciences are aching. I think this motion is a reasonable motion in that sense. On the other hand, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to thank him for responding seriously to the questions we've already submitted. In the central bank's printing process so far, it has reported that the total money supply used to translate the economy in Turkey is still more than $60 billion, and even the distribution of these as bills and coins has been handed out separately. However, in the same way, it is also expressed in official records that the economic size returned with the testimony of the Minister is more than 15 times the current amount of money, which means that the economy is trying to be rotated by a deposit of 900 billion euros. Now, this, especially recently, is one of the things that we expect in this bill, which has been one of the efforts of the tradesman, pensioner, young unemployed to fund the economy in a period of growing hardship, at least the ability to control the activities of black money or this black money creation. However, it is one of the flaws of the bill, unfortunately, that there is no ruling to guarantee that. In particular, in the recent period of social events throughout Turkey, public opinion has not been answered by the government in the eastern and southeast counties, near 20. Although the government intervenes in all cases by police force, it is perfectly justified and appropriate that the average citizens of this country should be concerned about this country's economy if a parallel structure can be carried out in that area. Mr. Secretary, you need to make a statement specifically about the extortion that this NECK is collecting in the southeast. What measures has your government taken to prevent this issue so far? To what purpose did he conduct a transaction about what companies, and what conclusions did he achieve? What companies have thus far transferred from the country's resources as tax or tax to the PKK, knowing or not? How did you manage to control it, what have you done so far? I declare in particular: Despite reports by the official inspectors of this state at the Esendere Border Gate in Turkey's southeastern province, although these reports have been forwarded to the ministries and the Prime Minister's office, I also regret to remind you that in the past three years, there has been no improvement in the amount of extortion that has been cut from companies by the PKK terrorist organization -- and it has been reflected in the media -- even over $400 million -- and I also know that the claims that an unfair profit has been achieved and that the border crossing should be closed temporarily in the reports of the inspectors has been reported over the past three years. I await your support of our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0250par1496	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to you the (1)th joke of Article 40: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the number-one joke on Article 40: those who accept it... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the article (3) of Article 40: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the 4th joke based on Article 40: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 41 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on the temporary item one, I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A Temporal Bill on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations 1. With the title of the article, we propose and propose that it be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Necati Özensoy Oktay Vural Temporal Article 1-1 (1) The regulations envisioned in this law are implemented within six months of the publication of this Law. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0251par1513	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0250par1514	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0252par1515	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0253par1516	Reason, please.
tbmm-2013-06-20sit01spe0250par1517	Reason, please. Since the law requires more than one regulation, the title must be changed. In addition, a year is reduced to six months for regulations to be drawn up shortly in terms of the importance of the financial system. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the interim Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 42 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 43 is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the whole bill has been accepted and legalized. Good luck and good luck. We will begin negotiations with the European Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Covenant Act between the Government of Turkey and the Romanian Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which will be ranked 6th, and will be held in accordance with the Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Report, in accordance with the Co-operation of Agreement for Development Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Yemen. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (June 25th 2013) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
