tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Off the agenda, I'll make a promise to three congressmen first. They've been talking for five minutes, and the government has the right to answer. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar, who wants to mention the 92nd anniversary of Zonguldak Province. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise in honor of the 92nd anniversary of Zonguldak. I hereby salute the High Council. Zonguldak, the first province of our republic to host various civilizations throughout the ages, is a beautiful province with its epic historical past, its historical beauty, its thousand-year-old caves, its green nature, even in winter. Of course, one of the most important elements that made Zonguldak (Zonguldak) Zonguldak is the gold, black diamond, or stone coal, which Mehmet Long discovered in the depths of our precious lands on November 8, 1829. Zonguldak, who remained under Ottoman rule until the Republic era, became important for the discovery of coal in 1829, becoming the focus of foreign capital, particularly of stone coal, which was the oil of that period. After the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in the First World War, Zonguldak and its surrounding source of rich stone coal was occupied by the French in 1919 as an excuse to protect the rights of French companies. After World War I, our nation was forced to sign the treaty, which contained the harshest conditions in its history, and our entire country was invaded by enemies. Without a doubt, the most precious treasure is the land of the land. Our nation, who is aware of this and has always managed to be one heart and one punch against the hostile emotions that feed on our homeland, has launched a national movement of liberation and independence in Anatolia and has fought for a long time. And in the end, as a result of the resistance of the forces of self-defense society, our province, which is of great importance to our country, survived the invasion of the enemy on June 21, 1921. After his liberation, Zonguldak, one of the locomotive cities in our country's industrialisation and social development, became the first province to be established after the founding of our republic on April 1, 1924. The same year, our province, which also received the School of Mining and Industrial Engineering, made rapid progress in later years. In 1925, the Turkish Anthrast Factory opened in 1948, the Styrogaz Termik Plant and the Filyos Fire Brick Factory, founded in 1968, with Ereğli Iron Steel Factorys and Teacuma Seka Paper Factorys. In this way, our province has earned its industrial identity as well as coal production. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk also expressed the importance of our province for our country, after the establishment of the republic, during his visit to Zonguldak, saying: "The more precious the mines beneath the deep lands of Zonguldak are, the more precious the Zonguldak is to us. Each square meter of sweat, martyr's blood and struggle, our province is a precious province of stone soil. Our hard-earned lands have become much more important with the sweat of our miners. In particular, the labor of our mining brothers, who have had an important place in the work of the development of our country, has been making great efforts against difficult conditions on earth for many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many years. Black Sea Ereğli's Elpek, steel and Ottoman strawberries, handwork of the hand, eye lamp cane and muss-smelling cereal bagels, the nuts of the Araplı, the yogurt of the Teacuma, the chicken of Gökçebeyin, the Filyos Valley Project, the wonder of nature, the cave of nature, and the green nature of our province, which is identified by stone coal. On this occasion, all of our soldiers, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who have been martyrs and veterans in the national struggle, have been able to find the coal of stone and the development of our country and of our province, long Mehmet.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. Our Zonguldak MP, Mr. Ali İhsan İkturk, asked for a moment's notice. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0004par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as Mr. Özcan Ulupınar put it, Zonguldak grew rapidly after the discovery of stone coal by Long Mehmet and became the first province of our republic in 1924 after the declaration of our republic. The founders of our Republic, especially because of the presence of stone coal in Zonguldak, built iron steel factories in Zonguldak, and after the establishment of ERDEMIR and KardeMIR, grew their contribution to the country's economy, carrying the country's economy on their shoulders for many years, and during this struggle, Zonguldak has justly earned the honor of becoming the capital of the labor, which is about 5,000 miners under hundreds of feet. The 21st of June is the 92nd anniversary of the rescue of Zonguldak, the capital of labor, from enemy occupation. I sincerely celebrate Zonguldak's day of deliverance from the enemy's occupation, this meaningful day of all the Zonguldians. In addition, I honor and thank the entire republic's martyrs, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, and over 5,000 miners who died in business accidents in the flu hundreds of feet below the ground. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0005par0028	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. The second non-responsive statement is from Balıkesir MP Namık Havutça, who wants to talk about health problems caused by the pollution of the Heart Tea. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0006par0035	Mr. President, I have been promised the environmental disaster in Balıkesir Gönen district. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, we have heard from the AKP Group that Mr. Ertugrul Günay has not given the group the right to speak. As of now, I would like to express to the High Council that I am ready to hand over my power to the Minister. I'm prepared to give Mr. Günay. On behalf of the CHP Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, I'm talking about an environmental disaster in the heart, and it's really a disaster. How catastrophic is it? Bus bus from the area, people are going to get cancer treatment. In the region, on the edge of the Heartful Tea, fish die, turtles die, snakes die. We've brought this up over and over again in the Balıkesir County General Assembly. Look, there -- not as a political stance -- I gave Mr. Secretary of State general Assembly members of the AKP (AKP) province, general council members of the People's Democratic Party (CHP) province, general council members of the province, all of us at the bottom of Gönen Tea, and I gave Mr. Minister here a motion to investigate. The Minister's answer to me is: there's leather industry there, they've done the decontamination, they've taken a year off. Well, Mr. Secretary, should people die? He's dying. Now, after snakes, moles, turtles, people are dying there. See, Turkey's most important Baldo rice grows in the Plain of the Heart; there are dairy products and Turkey's brands; there are 180,000 hectares of land that feed on that water. Now, there's a cry in a region as important as Turkey's wetlands, there's a cry. Currently, in Gönen, the chief of the watering unit in Cumhuriyet Square, the head of the agricultural chamber, all the villages in that region, the village of Musaça, Havutça, Alaattin, Bostancı, Sarıköy, Hasanbey, the village of Hasanbey are in a screaming cry. Come as soon as you can, the area's giving SOS. I'm warning Mr. Minister of Environment from here. We've applied sanctions, we've issued punishments. Stop them immediately, not immediately. Look, look at the view in that area where turtles die and snakes die, my dear friends. Would you look at this view, do people live here, do animals live here? So, as soon as possible, Mr. Secretary, please hear the cry in our area and respond immediately. Otherwise, the killing will begin in that area. Now, valued lawmakers, you've used all the gas used in the last ten years in ten days. Look, you told your 70-year-old mother, Merve, 16-year-old, Hayri, in the wheelchair, a terrorist, you threw gas bombs, you crippled them, you destroyed them. The water you squeezed from your TOMAs was alleged to have been mixed with chemicals and photographed. As if your policemen were attacking the enemy, you shot the police friends in the eye, the eyebrow, and the head; as if you were attacking the enemy, you attacked the people of the tribe, the Swan. You have declared the market a terrorist organization, you have declared the youth a marauder, you have declared the artists who call freedom and democracy an interest lobby. You pumped up the resistance, watered the walker, clubbed the runner. And now they're stopping to build the Square of Freedom and Democracy. What are you going to do with those who stop? So, we've seen this movie before. Before September 12th, in this country, the right-wing man, called the leftist, was shed in this land, because of the Sunni. Let's never see the same film again. Come, together, before we turn the nation against each other, hand in hand, arm, arm, freedom, and the laws of democracy, let's bring together the laws that will free the people here, and let's move the democracy of this country up. Do not divide the people and do not make enemies of one another. Come, let's name the Zodiac Square, the Square of Freedom and Democracy. Why don't you do that? In this country, we're all brothers, we're all kin, we're all relatives. Dear MPs, this cry is the cry of all of us. You people, all the forces that believe in democracy, I say let's act with that understanding. I salute you all with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0007par0045	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Our Minister, Minister of Environment and Forestry, will respond to the non-responsibility. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0008par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've been promised to respond to our Congressman's speech in response to an off-the-book conversation. Let me put it this way: of course, there are some industrial institutions within the borders of our town, especially within the city, and there are leather industrialists in the city. Organised leather industry has been built into these. The wastewater treatment plant of the heart will soon be built, hopefully this pollution will end. Now, in this particular case, let me make this very clear: I mean, it's going to get better and better, we promise. So once again, what we're doing about this, I'd like to stress it in particular: first of all, there's urban transformation work in Gören, where the skin industry will be moved to the organised industrial area, one. Secondly, of course, it's just... plus, the wastewater treatment facilities of the Heart will be done as soon as possible, and we expect it to be completed in 2014. And then there's the spreading resources that caused the contamination. In particular, in that area -- you know -- there's a lot of agricultural, agricultural processing. Here, we have some agricultural medicines, fertilizer use, and we're going to do a study with the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. We did it at the Ergene Basin, and it was very successful. Indeed, the farmer's education and the use of fertilizer in Ergene Basin, for example, and also the use of agricultural warfare, have been reduced by 50 percent. Why? He was using wrongly, and when he trained the farmer, it was reduced, and the situation that came from this agriculture, particularly from agricultural fighting medicines and other - the misuse of fertilizer - will be controlled by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I'm going to follow it, you know, and we're going to invest a lot of money in the Heart, Balıkesir. Also, wastewater treatment facilities will be built, especially the Heart. And, of course, there's not only pollution from some wastewater or agriculture, there's not just pollution from the industry, but there's also an erosion control study. Congressman, we have instructed that we begin this year in the heart basin, especially around the dam and around the ponds, to plant the green belt. Erosion control and deforestation, river correction, and more surveillance and control. You know, there's a lot of factories out there. I don't want to mention their names because my time here is limited, but our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has begun strict inspections, and I'd like to stress that in particular. But there's nothing in the underground water and watering water as big as it sounds. I've already examined the basin on my way here. The water is already quite clean in the basin, especially until the heart is gone; after the heart, some industrial waters and household wastewaters are contaminated with a mixture of pesticides, and hopefully we will prevent that from happening. We've already met with our Balıkesir MPs, so let's plan an action together. I'd like to stress that in particular. Sure, where did we come from about that? I mean, look, there's a lot more to be done. For example, in 2002, only 30 percent of wastewaters were collected and refined, but today we raised it to 72 percent. But, is it enough? I mean, the decontamination rate has risen from 30 per cent to 72 per cent, but we don't think that's enough. Hopefully, within the scope of a plan... Meanwhile, in some areas, our Ministry, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, through State Water Affairs, we've made a change in legislation, you know. If the municipality can't do it, it can do colectors and wastewater treatment facilities in major cities, towns with a population of over 25,000 people, including the state waterworks in the counties -- except for the canal. As a matter of fact, 12 wastewater treatment facilities are now being built in Ergene. It's moving too fast, even when we base it, we give it the opening date, the time. Other than that, if it has a smaller population, we are currently providing municipal assistance under the SDUPAP project run by the County Bank. Hopefully, our first goal is to raise this 72 percent to 92 percent of the totaled wastewater by 90 percent, as soon as possible, by the end of 2015. I've been following this. Actually, it's about solid waste disposal facilities, as you know, my deputies, we've come a long way. For example, you know, in 2002, in just 15 facilities, we collected solid waste from 20 million population networks, so that by the end of 2012, we were able to collect and dispose of the solid waste of 44 million populations. This is really important for environmentalism. And there was the medical waste that was polluting the environment, especially the hospital. In the past, unfortunately, they were being thrown in there without sterilization, right now -- we've started a major study of them -- we've been serving 54 in the last ten years, from where to where to, from zero to 54.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0009par0059	Give some to Malatya, Minister, and give some to Malatya!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0008par0060	In addition, the number of licensed packaging wastes, collections, separations, and recycling increased from 28 to 429 in 2002 at the end of 2012. Also, there are now 201 dangerous waste collection and disposal facilities when the hazardous waste disposal plant was 18 in 2002. Waste batteries are gathering. For example, last year, 497 tons of waste batteries were collected. Besides, our air is so clean. We are now measuring the air quality of Turkey at 117 points. Because the use of natural gas increased, with only nine provinces of natural gas in the past -- thank God -- was given natural gas at the end of last year by 71 at the end of the year. We've set up a regular monitoring system in the seas. In 2012, there was a regular point of measurement at 231 exact points. Blue flag, let me tell you, right now, our number of blue flags has risen to 342, so the blue flag on the beaches and marinas. The blue flag is given by an organization abroad, especially outside of us, very well supervised. Look, it's a sign of the quality of beaches and also the quality of seawater, and it's very important for tourism development, so Turkey became the center of sea tourism. Also, waste was not being collected from some marine vehicles, ships, boats, etc., engines, naval engines, but thank God there are now facilities in 206 ports that collect and dispose of waste in 206 ports, all the way to Alexander. There was a mention of a time at the Clave when you didn't move the fish farms. No, sir, all the fish farms have moved to a distance. Fish farms with only a court order, 3% of which we now await the outcome of the court's decision, respect the law, and hopefully soon when the court decides, they'll be moved. So I just want to say in a nutshell: So if you remember, we've opened the environment, and for the first time in Turkey, we're a country that opens up a really hard environment. We are also a country that is on the side of Kyoto. I'd like to stress that in particular. Of course, there's more work to be done, and we know that, so there's better than good, of course. The distance we travel in the wooding is appreciated by the entire world. We've had 2 billion 800 million saplings met with land in the last ten years. In the last five years, we've also been working in a field close to Belgium as part of the mobilisation. We've had 2 billion saplings met with soil in the last five years, both for erosion control and for rehab. These are in the data and data of the FAO, so these are official records. I'd like to stress that in particular. So to sum up, we really care about the environment, because when we invest a dollar in the environment, it saves $10 in health investments, $10 against a dollar, because there are epidemics that pass through water, because many environments are dirty, the sewage system is not built, the wastewater treatment plants don't work or are not made. The only way to prevent that is to invest in the environment, to plant, to protect nature. And we, the government, are doing everything in our power, with great precision. I wanted to emphasize that in a nutshell. I thank you with these feelings, everyone, with my respect.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Balıkesir MP Öztaylan will make a one-minute statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0011par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not agree with the descriptions of the division of the beloved Namik Havutça, but with the descriptions of the environment. Of course, it's all true what's being explained, what's being said. In fact, it's not the matter of the Tea of the Heart, it's the matter of the Marmara region. The filth of the border of the land of Marmara shall flow, and the filth of Tekirdağ shall flow, and Erdek shall flow, and the heart shall flow, and the land of Manyas shall flow, and all of it shall flow. The Sea of Marmara has become an unusable, unusable sea. However, a master's plan there should be a proper study. Actually, we need to bring this up. Of course, there's been tannerys there for years, hard to evacuate, with a court order and so on. He's a lawyer himself, so he knows how hard it is. There are still many friends of both the AK PARTY and the Republican People's Party who are in charge of the mechanism. While building the Organised Industrial Zone, we established the Leather Organised Industrial Zone, and within a year, studies require that it be moved there. If we remove the entire Skin Organised Industrial Zone from there, then we all need to walk barefoot, not wear shoes, because we're wearing shoes made of leather. We find the middle of it, with the help of the Ministry of Environment, with the help of the opposition and with the contribution of power, not of the Heartful Tea, but of Tekirdağ, my request, and of the Sea of Balıkesir, and of the Sea of Balıkesir, and now of the province of Balıkesir, we desecrate the Aegean Sea. We'd appreciate it if we could make this master plan and do this study with the Ministry of Environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0012par0082	Thank you, Mr. Öztaylan.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0013par0083	Minister, take note of the criticism. You are trying to evacuate Ergene to the Sea of Marmara. Consider the criticism.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0011par0084	It's not a criticism, it's a fact-finding effort. Don't dilute it!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0014par0085	The MPs are telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0015par0086	Yeah, not mutually. The third non-responsive statement is owned by Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz (Afyonkarahisar) who wants to talk about the problems of agriculture and animalism and proposals for solutions. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0016par0093	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've told you over and over from this bench, and I'm going to keep telling you until you realize that you, the farmer, the farmer, the peasant, are in power. We, as the National Movement Party, are the cries of our unemployed, our youth, our laborer, our officer, our pensioner, our farmer, we are the voice, we are the breath, we are the breath, and we will continue to be. Remember, 25 per cent of the population still deal with agriculture in Turkey. If I were to say that they also vote at election time, perhaps you'd be interested. I don't think you've ever thought about what these people do, what they do, what they eat, what they drink, how they produce, and how they produce. I wish you'd thought of our farmer as much as you think of the interest lobby, and they'd be five times as rich in your time of power. At the point of ten years, the farmer groans in debt, foreclosure, bank, execution and prison clamps. The higher input costs, the lower backs of the farmer were bent by the lack of money produced by meat, milk, wheat, barley, fruit and vegetables. He's about to give up farming, but he's forced to produce it year after year, for lack of any other profession. They've been patient for years, and they've given you a serious option, but it's enough. They say it's a profit wherever it comes from. Just so you know, they're determined to send you with an imam. After our repeated insistence on the wheat bases, the farmer in Çukurova, and Harran had lost his goods to the merchant. Delivering wheat to the land crop office is a ceremony. Do the members of the Ministry really enjoy suffering so much for the wheat producer? I wonder if the Minister was given a knight's badge from France for this. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you must be getting complaints. In 2013, animals still die from the metal. I was at Erzincan this weekend. You have no interest in the trouble, regret, and even despair of Bekir Bey, one of the farmers in Grapelu district. Mr. Bekir used a loan, bought an animal, and insured it from TARSIM. By the way, his 16 head pet died from the chap. Mr. Bekir is desperate because the agricultural organization is a disease that requires TARSIM (TARSIM) and TARSIM (TARSIM), which is not covered by insurance for him. He transfers it to the agricultural organization, which is, of course, to the manufacturer. What about thousands of victims like Mr. Bekir and Mr. Bekir? Because of the slap, the markets are still quarantined. Because of the wrong time of the Brusella vaccine, Antalya, Mersin, Adana, the Kahramanmarash, the Army, Giresun, Adıyaman, Eskişehir, Bolu, Düzce, the Silver House, Sinop, and Afyonkarahisar, some 250,000 sheep were cast in the provinces. You've spread the news that $100 a lamb is going to be paid to close this case. In some counties, you have also paid the price by napping sheep in positive places, while in some provinces, you have made an application that we cannot understand by not cutting sheep, interpreted as natural immunity. It's all over the place. Even after 45 days of the written motion I asked the minister about the matter, there is still no answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is not acceptable to sell the diesel put in the SUV, the tractor, the harvester, the irrigation engine, the mazota at the same price. The amount of gas you give from your mouth and every time you say it, believe me, it's like an ear on a mountain. The farmer is miserable, anxious and desperate for his future, almost dying. Precious lawmakers, the mazotta, one of the most important entries in agriculture, should be removed immediately in electricity used in seeds, seedlings, seedlings, medicines, fertilizers and agricultural irrigation. In this way, let's give our dying farmer a life water. The agricultural industry, as you can imagine, is an open factory. If you're having trouble with industry, you drop the switch, and when the trouble's over, you can start producing when the switch's off. However, the situation in agriculture and livestock is very different; once production stops, it takes a very serious time to get back to work. Dear lawmakers, especially in livestock, are so busy that animalism doesn't make you play at your wedding, it doesn't make you cry at your funeral. Don't pretend this doesn't destroy our people, Mr. Prime Minister, even though he scolds our farmer, our peasant, you take care of our farmer, or we'll be condemned to imported meat, imported milk, imported food, oil, imported fruit, vegetables, and even imported bread one day. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0017par0106	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Now, I'm going to make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. That's right.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0018par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. The Employment Health and Safety Act, which took effect in 2013, included more than 50 staff workers, and on June 30th, less workers, a business doctor and a business safety and the condition to operate as experts. If this law is carried out in a serious and decisive manner, it is a very right law because thousands of people in our country and in the world are dying from a business accident and occupational illness. Human health and safety must be above all else. Therefore, there are not enough workplace physicians and security experts. It is not right to postpone the law by saying, "It is not right. " Many engineers and doctors have prepared, attended courses, received diplomas. Therefore, the law must not be postponed in particular. People from many counties, such as Tokat, Sivas, Yozgat, are rightly applying to us at the point that this law is not postponed. In particular, some studies can be done about paying for small-scale businesses by the state. Work should be done this way, but it shouldn't be postponed.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0017par0114	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0019par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. The president of Mossad has come to Turkey in secret, and has discussed Syrian, Iran and Travel Park with MIT Undersecretary Fidan. It has been announced that the president of Mossad has been promoting the claim that the Islamic Republic of Iran's Revolutionary Guards have been operating against Turkey. In addition, the talks discussed the taxi protests and discussed whether the countries in the region' intelligence units were effective in the protests. Turkey's view of its problems is thought to be from Mossad. Talks and relationships with Zionists are a business that the AKP will know, but contact with Mossad is meaningful during a critical period. Mossad is not expected to do anything other than provoke Turkey against Iran and Syria. Sharing information with Mossad means looking at Syria, the division, in the eyes of Israel. Trying to understand what's going on with the intelligence received from Mossad is a terrible thing. The AKP and the MIT must abandon Mossad (MOSSAD) and return to the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0020par0120	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0021par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. In January 2012, there was a last long-distance train flight from Haydarpaşa Station. Yesterday, Haydarpaşa Station, hosting the last commuter train campaign, was shut down as part of the Harbor Transformation Project. We will continue to resist as it has been for Haydarpaşa, where AKP is preparing to launch a ranta on behalf of the High Speed Train Project. Haydarpaşa and its environment are too important to be sacrificed to the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's enforcer zoning plan. The plan to organize the historic Haydarpaşa Station as a station, cultural facility, accommodation area is nothing more than a plan to enrich and destroy the memory of society. Despite the objections of all members of our party, the plan is not only against the Kadiköyans, but against all Istanbulers, just as it was in the Travel Park. Our citizens who use this line must be shown the alternative to transportation immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0022par0126	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0023par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. The police officer who beat young girls by the hair in İzmir Kordon stated that he was sorry and sorry for his interrogation, and that's me? I was up and on duty for 20 hours, and I don't even remember what happened. The only way to put these negatives behind both our police and citizens is to strengthen basic rights and freedoms. We will strengthen the police even further. Our expectation is that the police will improve their working conditions, limit their working hours, recognise their union rights and secure their rights. It is not the one who has the most to look after his police, but the one who has the most to torture his citizen, who has given his police and his citizen human living conditions. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0024par0133	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0025par0136	June 15th is the anniversary of Peyami Safa, one of the most important pencils in the history of Turkish literature. When we look at Peyami Safa, who we lost in 1961, who was orphaned at the age of 2 and had to work, we can see the glints of a great idea man, who had to write the grammar of French he had learned to himself, who had to give us masterpieces in jokes, stories, and novels. Peyami Safa is the greatest joke writer of our literature. The heart would like to introduce this great multi-frontal, brilliant writer of jokes and novels to new generations on much broader platforms and deeper study, but unfortunately Peyami Safa is not understood and explained in the way she deserves. Our young literary people and researchers must pay the debt of loyalty to Peyami Safa. In addition to the novels of Peyami Safa, there are important research and study works. In an environment in which socialism from the West came into our lives wide amongst our intellectuals, Peyami Safa, Fatih-Harbiye, and other novels have helped to raise a youth with national and spiritual values and spiritual values that have given life to our nation. If we live freely and freely on this land and under this flag, the late Peyami Safa would have significant contributions. I remember Peyami Safa, with mercy and gratitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0026par0140	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0027par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. In the afternoon of Monday (June 17th), 7 people were killed in the western part of Turkey, in the favorite part of tourism - 7 workers, 7 workers, 7 officers of methane - they were destroyed and destroyed. Milas Güllülük was the victim of seven life-threatening work murders in Tepe-AKFEN water and sewage company. Despite constant warnings since 2006, no measures have been taken, the first and only privatized of our region and Turkey, unfortunately these people have been destroyed, killed. Although the law on employment and labour health has been adopted in January, there has been no measure, no sign, no inspection, and 7 lives have been destroyed as a result of AKP's sad practices and policies. The government's failure to make a statement on this matter...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0026par0146	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0028par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. The construction of hydropower plants is being conducted within the borders of the village of Inesa İngegöl Şarççiçuk. The drinking and watering waters will dry, and we have brought out of this land that we have watered with these streams. We drank the spring water from these streams. We paid our taxes. We sent our sons into the army to defend our country, but we were left without water in our own village, which we considered our homeland. We invite our government's authorities, its concerned, our ministry, to the task of not taking the water that's our lives. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0029par0152	He's here, Mr. Secretary. He won't, he won't, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary won't.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0030par0153	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0031par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Forest and Waterworks Minister is here, and I want him to hear it. There are dams and 9 HES projects on Fairy Valley in the province of Tunceli. Last week at the Tatar Dam, one of them, the floodgates closed. There's no water under the dam in the two-mile river. Tens of thousands of fish died after we ran out of water. I'm asking the Minister if they've started at least 10 per cent of the water in the CED project to deal with the dam managers who need to have at least 10 per cent of the water. I urge the concerned to be sensitive about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0032par0159	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0033par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. The Prime Minister said yesterday that they had activated birth control mechanisms in this country for many years, sterilized our people; this is what is called the inevitable, this is what is called the repulsion. When they did so, they committed murder, almost deceived, you die, and we will save you from death. They said, "We will save you from death." My dear friends, lying doesn't suit a prime minister. It's not like a prime minister to cheat on the public.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0034par0165	It doesn't suit you either!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0033par0166	It's not a prime minister's place to provoke patients against physicians. Now, how will the mothers with the C-section feel? From here to the mothers, don't believe the Prime Minister, if the C-section is necessary, it must be done, and it is the savior of life. Trust the doctors, not the Prime Minister. Doctors don't kill, they save lives. First, the Prime Minister must account for the deaths of the citizens of Reyhanlı and the resistance of the division. He must remove his ignorant and incompetent hands from health immediately.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0035par0168	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0036par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I received a phone call from the parents of two young people for the events in this division. One of them is Uður Yıldırım, who just had surgery at Okmeydanı Hospital, lost an eye. Murat Can Top lost an eye again at the Şişli Etfal Hospital. These 12 people are like this. So the cop who attacked them first shoots him in the temple, in the face, and takes his eye out. I mean, they're highly trained and trained to kill children, become cops. I don't believe these cops are Turkish police now. I see them as the ones brought to Turkey by Al Qaeda and the Muslim Brothers who joined the police, particularly the ones who allowed young people to suffer and suffer injuries for life. Let this government make a statement here. Are there among these police who they brought from Al Qaeda, Muslim Brothers, and Libyan, and trained in Turkey? Otherwise, these cops, I believe, will not attack those young people that torments them like that.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0037par0173	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0038par0175	Mr. President, I, Mr. Osman love, have an explanation for Bak Bey. I'd like to give him my say.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0037par0176	Please, one moment.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0039par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. The opening of the 17th Mediterranean Games, which will take place in our city of Mersin, will be held tomorrow by our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The games will be held in 32 majors with the participation of more than 3,000 athletes from 3 continents and 24 countries. Greece's withdrawal from the organisation due to the economic crisis has been sought by the city of Mersin. Although the games were 18 months old, all facilities, sports halls were built and ready within a year. The facilities were opened on Sunday (June 9th) by our Prime Minister, who has always been a big supporter of sports. As a sportsman who served as president of the Wrestling Federation, I wish you the best of luck to all our athletes and technical committees, especially our wrestlers. This organisation will also be an important reference for the 2020 Istanbul Olympic Games. For our athletes who will fight in the games, I say, "May your medals be gold and your way is good." I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0040par0182	Thank you, Mr. Bak. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0041par0184	Mr. President, you mean you won't promise us anything? Our friend made a promise somehow.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0040par0185	There's no such thing, ma'am. Ten names line up, they're given a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0041par0186	No, he took the 11th.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0040par0187	Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0042par0188	As deputy leader of the group, I've given my word.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0041par0189	Do you have that kind of language?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0040par0190	The Deputy Director of the Group had a saying, and he made a statement like that. Otherwise, we can't go forever. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0041par0191	So as MP, we have no say in the matter?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0040par0192	There's always one, and you always get one, if you go to the first 10. That's our app, ma'am, and you know it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0041par0193	A detour like this...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0040par0194	No, let's not argue. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0043par0197	Mr. President, I would like to request a moment's notice, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0040par0198	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0043par0199	Mr. President, thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to hand over my right to Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0044par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. The events at the Taxi Travel Park and the public movement behind it have terrified the AKP's power and the Prime Minister, it seems. According to instructions, many people are threatened and even taken into custody until doctors, lawyers, stand-up men and teachers, school principals, and even the children who throw away the tweet have been taken into custody. The latest thing is to be done, according to AKP ruling officials, we face a threat to the closure of the Republican People's Party, but despite all the pressures in this country, the Republican People's Party cannot be tolerated and this country's salvation will only be saved by the rule of a peaceful, democratic, modern, secular Republic of Turkey. I want to tell this to all the AKP officials.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0045par0205	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the province of Kastamonu, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be carried out under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter, under the requirements of Articles 98 of the Constitution, and in order to determine the problems of tradesmen and artists in the province of Kastamonu. [[Kastamon]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] 4) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Elizipt]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sakarya]] 21) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] Our tradesmen and artists are the middle pillar of our society and our economy and the element of stability. Our tradesmen and artists are not only economic elements, but essential elements of social life. In this sense, our tradesmen and artists are a group that evaluates micro resources in the economy and prevents waste of resources. Our tradesmen and artists provide an indispensable means of livelihood for the people who provide for their families and a culture from the past that provides them with micro-based employment. Business and artistry have been a source of cultural work from the past to the present, from the father to the son for centuries. Unfortunately, though, economic problems in our country, the changing sense of trade, economic concentration in the industry and services have left our tradesmen and artists in a difficult position. The lack of financing, the lack of demand due to economic difficulties, the fact of vocational education and artificial economic condensation are seriously disrupting our tradesmen and artists. In addition to the cumbersome integrated facilities in the industrial sector, businesses, such as hyper-and-grasmarkets, which have recently become increasingly common, have put our tradesman in uncompetitive straits. At the same time, the establishment of large markets between neighborhoods and selling all kinds of products from food to clothing, the grocery store, the grocery store, the butcher, the store, the store, the shoe store, the stationery, the deli, has a negative effect on our business group, which operates in close to 80 businesses. The tradesman who can't compete with large businesses closes the shutters. This affects both social life and economics. In addition to economic difficulties, the culture of tradesmanship, which has existed for hundreds of years, has also faced extinction. These challenges affect not only our tradesmen and artists, but also our industrialists and wholesalers. The province of Kastamonu has also been blessed by these trials that concern our country's general population. In Kastamon, our tradesmen and artists struggle with serious economic difficulties. These problems need to be resolved and needed support. Therefore, we demand that the solutions be found immediately by investigating the problems of our tradesmen and artists in Kastamon. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Adıyaman, the claim that some houses in the neighborhood where our Adıyaman citizens live have been marked has caused great unrest among the locals. The markings on the doors bring to mind the events of Kahramanmarash. Adıyaman Governor Ramadan Sodan stated that the house was marked around 25-30. In order to remove the unrest and find the perpetrators and the forces behind it, we respectfully request that the investigation be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Interior. 15/3/2012 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] 12) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Artvin]] [[Gaziantep]] 17) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] [[Tunceli]] In Adıyaman, the claim that some houses in the neighborhood where our Adıyaman citizens live have been marked has caused unrest among the locals. Locals say the signs on the doors bring the heromarash to their minds and they're scared. As you know, on December 19th and December 26, 1978, in the seven days that took place in Kahramanmarash, 150 people were killed, more than 200 houses belonging to the Alemans were burned down, and nearly 100 were destroyed. Before the events began, it is known that the houses of Alevis living in Yörekselim neighborhood, where the Alevis were heavily seated, were marked. The perpetrators of these events and the forces behind them have not been revealed, even after so long a year has passed. Adıyaman Governor Ramadan Sodan Adıyaman explains that around 25-30 homes in Karapınar neighbourhood of Karapınar district were marked and that they did not know what purpose or purpose the markings were made. Neighborhood Mukhtar Mahmoud Gürsu is concerned about the incidents and the unrest: there is no sign of any sign at the door of the residents of Sünni. Sunni and Alevi have disturbed all the residents and everyone else. We wish it were a game made by children. But when we think of the Maras, we get nervous. This could be an act of provocation. We've reported it to the police and the D.A.'s office, and it's being investigated. Let's hope there's no bad things, and we won't be disturbed. The bond of brotherhood between Alevi and Sunni citizens, who have lived together in our country for thousands of years, is important for our country's peace and well-being. We respectfully request and demand that the investigation be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Inclusion, in order to avoid incidents similar to the events of heromarash and to remove the unrest of the locals, to find the perpetrators and the forces behind it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our country has a staff regime at the top of the most important problems in public administration. Although several studies have been conducted over the years, the problem has not been solved. In the end, the problem is not solved or even deeper, even though practices, such as equal pay for equal work, and different rules of law on staff are tried to resolve the problem. Workers working at the Finance Ministry are one of the ones who have this problem. The problem of discrimination, which was created among financial workers, whether or not it is an expert or a non-existent or non-existent employee conflict, and employment uncertainty, is a major concern and concern for all financial workers. In particular, financial workers who are over 40 years old and still have not graduated from college think that they have been ignored by the ministry, that they have been replaced by other ministers, and that they have been tried to be approved by the Ministry of Finance, which has ignored their efforts over the years. The Bureau Laborers' Union's efforts, especially to include additional payments in the basic fee and add them to pensions, and to ensure the justice of the wages of the same forensic, administrative, financial and criminally responsible financial workers, who were created on a terrible scale among employees who were not experts or who were not qualified to carry the requirements according to the legislation, and who are doing the same work at the same tables. It is also known to your office that there are financial workers who work in the central and rural community of the Finance Ministry, related and related institutions, who have been victimised by the fact that they have not been tested for promotion in office. It is also clear that the financial workers who have been working for years and trying to complete their studies at the university have been trying to promote their voices to the Finance Ministry through various actions and activities, who have taken the KPSS exams and have tried to take special exams at various levels in order to take the higher-ups. In addition, during a meeting with Mr. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek on 30 March 2010 with the Central Board of Bureau Workers' Union, the Minister has pledged to end the injustice of wages between staff and non-expert staff, at least to narrow down the wage scissors between the staff and the staff who are experts. However, no attempt has been made by the Finance Ministry from 2010 to today. For these reasons, we respectfully submit to the establishment of a research commission in accordance with Article 98, Article 104, Article 105, and Article 105, to determine, and to resolve the problems of the financial workers. [[40s.]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Artvin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] 20) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] The motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday (June 19/6/2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. It has been suggested that a parliamentary investigation of the Turkish Parliament's agenda be met together in the 19/6/2013 Wednesday merger of the General Assembly for the investigation of the Uludere (Roboski) massacre (10/436) and for the opening of a parliamentary investigation to determine the solutions. The first statement on the Peace and Democracy Party's Group proposal, in favour of it, belongs to Mr. Ertugrul Kürkçı, MP of Mersin. Mr. Furman, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0046par0385	Mr. President, my dear friends, I'm not so sure if I should explain the lengthy nature of this research proposal, or if everyone knows it. But I'll tell you anyway, because it's not just a limited situation with itself, it's a state flaw in the hearts of the people of Turkey, in the soul, in the spirit, that's caused a very deep trauma since the day it happened. The public demand for this to be discovered, understood, and punished by the perpetrators is so high that if this goes unpunished, the people of Turkey have already applied a very heavy moral sanction against those who have left it unpunished. I've never seen a single person believe in the innocence of those who committed the Roboski massacre. Until today, I've never seen anyone say that it wasn't really a massacre, except for those who run Turkey and who stand at the top of the administration, the Prime Minister and Chief of Staff. Other than that, members of the government in Turkey, members of the government party, voters, non-voicers, Kurds, Turks, everyone agrees that a very serious crime has been committed here. However, this crime is not punishable, which has not been uncovered by our parliamentary research commission, where this crime is a crime. The Human Rights Review Commission, however much of us have assumed that there was no intention of having a purpose, has left any subject, any person, the institution, in the air, without pointing out that crime, and has taken away from the public the ability to make any spiritual impact on the judiciary as it deserves to conduct the investigation. And finally, the court has decided recently, he said: "There is no trial here, and there is no trial by our court. The Uludere (Roboski) massacre was sent to the military prosecutor's office to be extradited to the military court. After more than a year and a half of this massacre, this is what we came up with. No one's still guilty, no one's still on trial, but Roboski villagers, many times, have been accused after this massacre. They were taken into custody, arrested, and lastly sentenced to three thousand liras per person for reminiscing of their losses, for crossing the border and reminiscing of their losses at the point of the massacre. Now we're talking about a process of resolution while such a severe injustice, lawlessness, such severe violence is still being carried out by the government. Today, Professor Erol has listened to the further warnings of the Galaxy Commission: "Will our friends in the Commission, the AKP, or the Commission, be able to convey this very true warning to the government so that hatred and hatred will not be passed on to the future generations, unless there are very clear provisions, statements of hatred and hatred, and statements?" Because it seems that this punishment will last forever in Turkey. Just recently, a young girl, raped by five expert sergeants, went to the courthouse to complain about her underage age. The sergeants who were arrested were released a month later, five rapists walking free. The killers of 34 villagers destroyed in the Roboski massacre walk free. Ceylan Forearm, a little girl. He was obviously blown up because of the negligence of the security forces, or because he was supposedly shot at by an explosive device left in the field. Either way, there's not a single security guard being punished for negligence or intent. We're coming with thousands of cases like this. I think it's time for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to take over these issues. Dear friends, I would especially like to address the friends in the government's ranks, the friends in the government's ranks: believe me, we are in a much more dire situation than you think we are. In the hearts of men, in their souls, in their conscience, since this republic was founded, state crimes against poor peoples, oppressed peoples, outcasts, despised people have been such a burden that people are ready to rebel at any moment to get rid of this burden, and every moment, for whatever reason they find their rebellion. In the events of travel, you look for an external force in the protest of the Travel, but look for an internal power, my friends. You have no idea how deeply the Roboski massacre has left the conscience and heart of this young generation. Thousands, millions of people condemned this massacre on their conscience. They stood up in his anger, as soon as they realized that their persecution was the same as theirs when they rebelled. Therefore, the BDP should not put aside all the research proposals that appear in front of our Assembly, saying, "This is what the BDP wants." You've denied our demands to investigate the facts, and we can't set up a commission to investigate them. You never said yes to the establishment of a research commission in the face of any crimes against the people. So, how do we investigate them? Who's gonna look into it? Don't you realize that today, in Turkey, he considers himself an equal partner of the government, the government, or even a higher power than they are? They're not going to investigate all this. They're a new bureaucratic custody force who's been asked to evacuate. There's no justice, there's no justice. Then Congress must personally investigate for the re-establishment of justice, with these research commissions, why this crime was not uncovered, why the Chief of Staff wasn't investigated, why the Prime Minister didn't order an investigation. With the protection motive, you can't go anywhere from the top of the state, from below, from the Parliament, no freedom zones can be surrounded, no justice can be built. The House must grasp its own understanding, recognize its own power, and act on its power. Unless that happens, the institutions of the establishment cannot bring us into the future. On their behalf, they are obliged to protect and protect the establishment, but the House, itself, can rely on a public administration that will bring about such a change, to make all kinds of decisions about those institutions. And that's where you've written, and that's where the sovereignty is unconditionally, and that's where it reigns, and that's where it's the most important source of sovereignty, and that's where he can deal with it. Therefore, any action that may mean covering up the people responsible for the Roboski massacre, make sure that the citizens themselves, the citizens, the young, the women and the Kurds are asked not only personally, but personally by all those with a conscience living in Turkey, but then you will see together how devastating justice that does not pass through any judicial authority can be. Therefore, if you say yes to this proposal, you will not only win the heart of Roboski villagers, you will arouse hope that justice can be established throughout Turkey, or the people will establish their own justice. It's your choice, fellas.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0047par0397	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. The second speaker on the Peace and Democracy Party proposal is Mr. Idris Şahin, the Chandırı MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0401	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Council's motion to investigate the events of the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute your high council. First of all, we have to say that the incident that occurred on December 28, 2011 in the villages of Uludere, Şırnak province, Gülyazı and Centralsu, on Iraqi border land, which resulted in the deaths of 34 of our citizens, his race, his religion, his profession, and his political views, has deeply upset all our citizens, and has since been expressed in our country. The basis of this research proposal is the Peace and Democracy Party, based on Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 104 and 105 of our Parliamentary Council. However, the desired and satisfied event here envisions, in the circumstances of that day, whether there is a lack of intelligence among the decisions the government has made, its decisions, its authors and responsible officials, and, again, there are some grounds in the context of the research proposal. Now, right after the incident, there's no way we're going to accept any specific negligence remarks from this bench. However, I would like to share one matter with you here, especially one which has been stated in the cause. According to the third paragraph of the argument, an ambulance was not sent, especially after the bombing and the authorities were warned, and the Human Rights Association, the Turkish Medical Association, KESK (KESK) and other NGOs reported that 13 injured were killed due to the absence of help. It is clear that our friend, who wrote the reason himself in the next paragraph, is also at odds, because the paragraph states that the villagers immediately arrived at the scene with ambulances belonging to the BDP and municipalities; a terrifying, creepy mass murder occurred. I mean, because he was late in a paragraph, 13 people were reportedly losing their lives due to the immediate lack of intervention, while the next paragraph immediately stated that 13 people had been taken to the scene and that they had been interrupted. Now, dear friends, after this incident, the Parliament's Human Rights Commission is setting up a subcommittee, and immediately after the incident, a period of 13 months in the region is being carried out, and the Human Rights Review Commission can work for 13 months using this right from the law. As of now, the maximum working period of the parliamentary research motion and the research commission will be three months, and if it is not enough, an additional month will be given. As of March 27th, the commission submitted its report to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey following a serious study of the team which was immediately established as a subcommittee. There may be shortcomings, some things haven't been made quite clear. And they've compiled their grievances against the opposition, both in terms of the Peace and Democracy Party and the Republican People's Party. Now, in 13 months, I think it's a little pointless to wait for a research commission to reach some data and information that the Human Rights Commission, the expert on the subject, has not been able to access.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0049par0408	We already have the data.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0409	And immediately after the incident, the Commission arrived, and the fact that the incident is in the process of investigating a lot of data...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0050par0410	What did he find? Who's to blame? What happened, what came up? Nothing.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0411	...is reported to have been brought to court due to the fact that there was a confidentiality order in the file, and a large portion of the reports that came to the Commission were carried out by Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's vehicle.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0050par0412	And the judge has decided that he's out of office.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0413	Now, it's a matter of fact, which our friends and chiefs are actually objecting to, and it's a bit of a fair point. It is here that the Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has decided not to serve after a period of about 15 months, which, of course, I did not approve or confirm, with a legal identity, that it has taken place on the subject of the military judiciary. Because, in our political understanding and view of the judiciary, we believe that there should be a neutral, fully independent judiciary, and that only civil courts should exist under the principle of singularity, and that these problems in military courts can only be dealt with in disciplinary proceedings, and that due to all other actions and procedures, there will be a full court of justice in civil courts, and at this point -- I hope and believe that, as our country's democratic standards rise, as our nation's belief in neutral and independent justice will be removed at the same level that military courts have been united in our nation, and in this country, there will be a full court of civil action and independence.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0050par0414	When, 2071?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0415	Other than that, valuable lawmakers, especially some of the issues expressed here, I express to our valued officers and friends that if we see this country as a whole, if we see all 76 million million square feet of land, we can easily go on if there is a human rights violation, without you-we-do-not-doubt, if we see it as a whole. Because we always express from this stand that torture and abuse are a crime of humanity. And we never, ever want to see anyone connected to this country because of their faith, race, and political opinion because we have an understanding in our politics that brings people to the center, and that we are a political government in which all citizens of this country act and operate in an equal way of life. In matters related to the judiciary, the index was expressed here -- we give some concrete examples from the western part of the country as examples. The events I encountered in the early years of my profession were that different people from the east, from the west, committed many different crimes in Çankırı, in rural Ankara, and that none of these people were discriminated against simply by expressing their territory or race, and that one of the people in this country most eager for the judiciary to be neutral and independent in all areas is the government and the ruling party. In the September 12, 2010 referendum, we now took steps to eliminate some of the trials and to transform the judiciary into the true function of the judiciary, not to mention the rule of law of rule of law, but to demonstrate their reservations. So we have to think rationally here. If this society loses our complete faith in the judiciary, the need to be a state, and the idea that we should fall into a position that will bring the nation together and eliminate the phenomenon of justice, it can be very bad. Of course, there may be some flaws in the judiciary, but the arrangements that have been brought in recent years, especially with the steps of democratisation and the package of judgment, are events that have been made for the well-being of our people so that this country's people can live in a more peaceful, more democratic environment. In the judiciary, I believe that all physical shortcomings have been removed. Now, in those buildings, inside those palaces, I would like to express our particular expectation of independent judgment, which will caress the souls of the people and honor the country as citizens. But let's never forget that when we stand here on the stand, when we bring judgment to your-my-my-mind division, we are able to prevent independent judgment from fulfilling its function in some way.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0051par0418	What about the fines?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0419	I would like to express in particular this sentiment and thought that all of the functions and actions of a commission here that will now be set up under a parliamentary research motion have been met by a subcommittee established by the Parliament's Human Rights Commission, and the report has been submitted to the Parliamentary General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0052par0420	And nothing has been achieved, everything is hidden, lied.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0421	I believe that the report here, even if there are shortcomings, is expressed in opposition.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0053par0423	Besides, families are being victimized.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0048par0424	With these thoughts and feelings, I declare myself against the BDP group proposal, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0054par0426	So, you're saying we can't do any better?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0055par0427	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The third speaker on the Peace and Democracy Group proposal is Ankara MP Levent Gök. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0056par0431	Mr. President, I've been promised a group proposal from the Party for Peace and Democracy. I salute you all with love and respect. We're discussing an important matter and considering it. In fact, this has been discussed in the House several times. With the AKP's votes, we also know that this proposal will be rejected. It is believed that justice will be established in Turkey, mostly digitally. My dear friends, every time you act like this, justice in Turkey is severely wounded, and a serious bleeding continues to increase every day. I've actually been watching the AKP spokesman who just spoke with an example. I wish the AKP had appointed a friend in charge of the Uludere Commission or the Parliament Human Rights Commission as a spokesman here. Naturally, our friend here misjudged the fact that he didn't know about the debates at the Human Rights Commission and that he didn't know about the documents entering the reports. For example, he came to the ambulance issue: "The ambulances didn't go at all, and after a while you mentioned that the city's ambulances had left. " In this case, my dear friends, 34 citizens were killed on 28 December 2011 in Uludere, neither military nor civil authority went to the scene. For one thing, this is a very stable document in the file. The 22nd gendarme, who is stationed in Uludere, has a personal statement to us from the Commander of the Border Division, which is in our reports. Mr. Commander, why didn't you go to the scene?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0057par0434	I know it's all in the report, and I'm saying the reason is different.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0056par0435	Beyond that, the property inspector considered it unfortunate that the state's military and civil authority would not go to the scene, and that's how the property inspector wrote it in his report. I mean, let's go out and talk on purpose, not on purpose. What we're talking about is an important tragic event in our recent history. 34 of our citizens have died. What 34 of our citizens? Four are 13, 18 are under 18. They're going a five-hour drive for 50 or 100 lira each, they're coming back with a diesel from there, and despite the sight of a four-and-a-half-hour drone, there's no weapons in them, but the fact that the number of mules is more and fewer than the number of mules suggests that they're traffickers is possible, and there's an air strike within 100m to 1km of the border and at exactly 6km away from the nearest military base, my dear friends. There's nothing believable about it, nothing acceptable about it. MIT says something else, the Joint Chiefs say something else. MIT says: I did not report, I did not give intel. But do you know that on 27 December 2011, the day before the incident, an intelligence report by the National Security Council as Secretary General states that some elements in the region will enter Turkey. Dear AKP people, my dear friends, do you know where the secret behind this incident is? It happened on December 28, 2011, and on that day, there was also the National Security Board. This has been discussed on the national security board, and according to the intelligence report from the National Security Council the day before, everyone has made their preparations. Whoever's on the national security board is aware and responsible that day. It's been decided and printed in an environment where the entire state level is at its top level. The most important reason that the incident has not been cleared up so far is because all of the state's organs are involved and responsible. If you tell me you're not telling me the truth about this, I'd like the National Security Board to be informed of what was being said that day. A day ago, the report of the MIT will be reported to the next National Security Board's General Secretaryship, and this incident will not be discussed here. No one will believe it. Now, the dead are children, most of the dead are children who hold pencils, children who try to satisfy their reading needs. The sense of justice is bleeding here, my dear friends. Even more serious is the lack of help for the wounded that day is a scandal for Turkey. Have consciences been so blind in Turkey, my dear friends? We have a report from the 22nd Gendarme Division Commander. We, yes, knew the case, we couldn't go because if we did, the soldiers and the people would face each other. He said, "They're in the report." Don't let anyone hide behind your work or other excuses. There has been a tragic incident, a tragic incident, and 34 citizens of the Republic of Turkey have been killed by the planes of the Turkish Armed Forces. In such a case, not all levels of the state will remain in dark places the very next day. He said, "There will be those responsible immediately." He said, "The property inspector has been appointed." The property inspector submitted his report in April 2012, but this is a preliminary review report, which has still not been ordered to investigate, which is still on the books of the Ministry of Interior's property inspector's report. The Parliament's Human Rights Commission has not moved a step forward in its months-long investigation, including Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) citizens covering up all facts and killing them. Apart from opposition parties, it has accepted a report. In such a case, the report of ASELSAN was falsified. Part of the reports that ASELSAN wrote minute by minute, second by second are cut, creating the perception that there are people coming from below, and among the people who are dying, there are Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) people. Its perception is the head of AKP's report, my dear friends. No one can do such a thing. Our people who live in the Uludere of our country are equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey, who, like everyone else, expect justice, as they do, to take a step forward in this wound that has a bad conscience, and the perpetrators will be found. It's our duty to ensure that. We can't hide behind this. You won't get results from the property inspector's report, you won't get results from the Human Rights Commission report. On the other hand, the Diyarbakır Prosecutor's Office will issue an invalid decision after a year and a half, sending the case to the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, who is responsible for investigating the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, to investigate the Chief of Staff! Is that so, fellas? Is that possible? This lack of duty to close the case again encompasses justice and blinds their consciences. Again, recently, the Uludere families crossed the border about 50 meters in May to commemorate the 500th day of their children's death, and all of them were sent to their administrative fines, three thousand liras to 50 people, my dear friends, for opposition to the border law. Now, in a case like this, isn't it at least humanly desirable for all of us to show respect for a memorial service where children were shot? Why are these families being victims of a fine of only 3,000 lira? In the report of both the General Assembly and Şırnak Security Director, the incident was taken by the most intense area in terms of smuggling activity, not by members of the separatist terrorist organization. Although there are reports, these families will hold a memorial service in this place, each of them will receive a fine of £3,000! Five people have been arrested for the attack on my skim, which we did not approve of before, and they're still being tried, and he's going to continue, but in a place where there are 34 deaths, only one military official will be tried without listening! The Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights has also been a tool for this closure. The commission injured their conscience in its report 14 months later. A report from the Human Rights Commission is an historic black spot. We pushed him away from us, and we scrutinized our opposition very well. We hope and say that this event, followed by all of our world and all of us, now sits somewhere in the consciences, and studies continue to shed light on the Uludere event. Now, on the one hand, the non-observation decision will not report to the property inspectors, but the Human Rights Commission will shut it down! So, what are these families gonna do? What are we going to do, my dear friends? Here, let us review this with a commission to be set up in the assembly, at least a small amount, given to this purpose. A proposal in the form of a council must be accepted, not rejected. You bleed consciences, you bleed consciences, you bleed justice. Therefore, I say we support this proposal from the Peace and Democracy Party, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0058par0443	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The last speaker, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir, is opposed to the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0446	Mr. President, I have received a pledge to be against you on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the recommendation given by the BDP Group. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Servant. Mr. President, most of all, the important thing I want to point out is that the Uludere incident is a matter that has been brought to justice.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0060par0448	Nothing from the trial.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0449	I will try to share my views on a matter that has been brought to justice according to our constitution. I've just listened carefully to the MPs who spoke before me. Of course, I'll try to share my views in front of you. But I'd like to point out, for once, that everyone has to act in accordance with the law. I don't think it's right to invite others, people, to illegality. Mr. President, the matter of the Uludere has hurt our nation deeply, deeply. In other words, the Uludere incident took place in human and apocalyptic consciences, but immediately after the incident, our civil society organizations, our political parties, all parts of society, were mobilised, especially for sharing pain, for healing the wounds. Our government has also shown a close interest and interest in the subject and has been closely followed, and continues to follow. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been transferred by the Prime Minister's Office, as well as the amount paid according to the Law on Responsibility of Terror and Terrorism, to the relatives of the deceased.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0061par0452	Who's the killer, killer? Tell me about the killer, not the money!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0453	Of course, it should not be considered as a price to pay for the suffering that has happened, but it is a work shown by our government in terms of eliminating and caring for the victims in the event. Of course, our House has done its part in the Uludere incident. In this regard, the Uludere Subcommittee Commission has been established in the Human Rights Review Commission.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0062par0455	But nothing came of it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0456	This Commission has done the necessary research, the investigations, and has personally gone to the area to negotiate with the victims' relatives...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0062par0457	It's a waste of time. That's for nothing.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0458	...and as a result of these investigations and investigations, as a result of the necessary work, the Human Rights Subcommittee wrote the report and presented it to our Parliamentary President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0063par0459	The fairy tale is written, the fairy tale! Story for the children!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0460	We think the report of this Uludere Subcommittee is sufficiently clear. That's why when there's a commission report...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0064par0461	Don't talk about it. Don't talk about it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0462	...and while this report is being written again and again, we don't think the agenda of the Parliament General Assembly should be tied to the same issue...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0065par0463	There's a story, there's a story!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0066par0464	We object not because you have written, but because you have not written.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0465	And we don't think that means anything.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0067par0466	It's closed, that's the point.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0467	You know, the Uludere case went to trial.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0068par0468	Then what happened? And?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0469	I've shared that with you. Regarding this issue, the recent -- I underline -- even though it's a little late, the Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has decided that it's out of commission because the location of the incident is across the border. But everyone should know that justice will come sooner or later. The real criminals, the real perpetrators, will surely, one day, answer in front of the court.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0068par0470	So let our motion to investigate be accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0471	Of course, you know, the AK PARTY governments have gone through all sorts of injustices, all sorts of illegalities with great courage and determination, and so on. And we're going to keep going at this with all our determination because the AK PARTY governments -- we want everyone to know that -- have no habit of sweeping events under the carpet. With the power we receive from our nation, we will continue to pursue every injustice and injustice. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the AK PARTY governments have done very important work to democratise our country. Let me start by saying that even the constitutional amendment in 2010, in terms of democratisation and transparency of this country, is a major turning point in our country's history in the sense that the rule of law should be fulfilled. Look, what we've done is we don't have enough time here to count what we've done, but let me try to share it with you in headlines.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0069par0473	Get to the point, get to the point. Come to Roboski, to Roboski.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0474	For one thing, the coup and emergency practices ended during the AK PARTY administrations. On the 12th day of the AK PARTY's rule, the state of emergency has been terminated. The state of emergency, as we all know, is a situation where the locals complain and complain.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0070par0475	You've brought martial law to my division!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0071par0476	This isn't about AKP's actions! This is about Roboski. Why are you telling us about AKP's actions? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0477	As soon as the AK PARTY governments came into office, on their 12th day, the first thing they did was put an end to the state of emergency.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0072par0478	Come to Roboski, to Roboski.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0479	Of course, the state security courts, which our country's legal system has complained about and have always been criticized in the international arena, have been civilized, then completely removed. Article 15 of the Constitution, which rules the irresponsibility of those who carried out the coup attempt on September 12th, has been lifted from effect. In the days of the amendment of the Constitution, in the days of the referendum, you change the Constitution, but you do not judge the coupgers.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0073par0480	Go back to Roboski, to Roboski, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0481	We have done our duty well, and we have done all kinds of work in Turkey to rule the rule of law, and we will continue to do so. Look, the work of the Western Working Group's continuing Prime Ministerial Pursuit Board has been terminated. The times of the coup were examined in the commissions established in our parliament, which were established in TBMM.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0074par0483	Tell me about the declaration of Tanzimat!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0484	Also, the trial for coup crimes has begun. Public opinion monitors them closely.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0075par0485	Roboski is also closely monitored by the public.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0059par0486	Look, another important step towards democratization is that the National Security Council is now a civilian institution. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the judicial packages that were legalized during our administration have been resolved to the chronic problems of our legal system and our judicial system, and both democratisation and transparency have been provided in these matters. The work on the arrest is also a crucial step in the field of human rights, as well as in the study of torture crimes not subject to statute of limitations. Dear President, my dear lawmakers, with these feelings and thoughts, once again, I declare that we are against the BDP Group proposal, with all due respect to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0076par0491	Thank you, Mr. Kashdemir. I'm going to put the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0077par0495	We want roll call, Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0076par0496	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Gök, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Cengiz, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Genç, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Seçeker, Mr. Sakan, Mr. Demir, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Akova, Mr. Akova. Congressmans, I'll give you three minutes to roll call.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0078par0498	President, they'll be here in ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit01spe0076par0499	We'll give you ten minutes next time, sir, on the wishes of your witness. I'll start the roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal was voted was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Wednesday 19/6/2013 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (10/164) should be determined by the measures in which the agenda of the Grand National Assembly should be discussed and carried out by its friends (10/164), Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir and his friends (10/164), the number-numbered trades and artists' problems should be taken into consideration and the need to investigate the problems of their friends and friends (10/198) the main trades and artists need to be investigated by investigations and investigations of the trades and the problems of their friends, with the research and the need for the investigation of the small trades of their colleagues, with the research and the research of the Ottomans and the research of their colleagues of the Ottomans and colleagues of the Ottomanes (1710/10/12). On the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker, Emin Haluk Ayhan, is Denizli MP. Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0079par0026	Mr. President, I have received a statement in favor of the nationalist Action Party Group's motions to identify the problems of the tradesmen and artists and to investigate the proposals for solutions. I salute the grand jury. In Article 173 of the Constitution, there is a ruling that the state will protect and support tradesmen and artists. There are 491 trade branches, over 2 million tradesmen, 3.100 tradesmen and artists' rooms, 82 trades and artists' rooms in the provinces, 13 federations in Ankara. What are the problems of the market? We say, we get, we say what we know: the tradesman is most affected by the global financial crisis; the real sector, the market. He's got a problem with employment. The problem with the tradesman is that he can't do business. The diminishing consumption is directly concerned; the tradesman's work volume is narrowed, the tradesman's mandatory costs can't afford, the tradesman can't pay the loan, the tradesman can't invest the tax and social security premium. The number of those who can't deposit is increasing rapidly. The tradesman's problem is also increasing in credit. Farmer, officer -- it's hard for the artist -- are they all bad for the tradesman? It's gonna be bad, it's gonna be bad. In fact, the National Movement Party is bringing these things up in an environment where the incompetent AKP government cannot solve the problems of Turkey, the agenda is occupied by other things -- citizens, farmers, the tradesman, the officer, the pensioner -- to address the problems of the pensioner and to look for solutions to these issues in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, but the incompetent AKP has blocked Turkey's agenda; it has blocked external issues, international institutions, other countries from the outside. Congressmans, you're giving support, incentives to the elders, not to the shopkeepers. The tradesman and the artist couldn't find what they were hoping for from the government's incentive packets. The tradesman closes his business, closes his doors, finds a job. However, your support for the tradesman will be directly for the public, directly for the economy, mixed in with blood. You don't have the tradesmen represented at the Institute of Turkish Standards, you don't have them represented at similar institutions, you take them away from there. You don't make pensioners shop. You're not taking out social security benefits cutbacks from seniority pensioners. He's not a business worker; he's an employer, you don't even know that. What happens if the five-point premiums of female tradesmen and artists are paid by the treasury, you give them to everyone. You haven't solved the financial record problem in terms of the tradesman's finances, which is already very problematic, and the check is already a problem, and the tradesman is miserable. The Law on Disregarding Records relating to Reciprocal Czech and Protested Credit Cards and Loan Cards is out of order. The tradesman and the artist have a collateral problem, unresolved, unable to reach the bank. Credit Guarantee Fund's been established, it's no use. This institution excludes tradesmen and artists. Turkey's Trade and Artists Confederacy has dropped out of the Credit Guarantee Fund. You've kept the tradesman out of incentives. It's a problem even with the bookshop's approval. You're ending relations with the EU, what about the integration of the tradesman to the EU? What if you could even up the number of prime days that were wanted for the tradesman's retirement? What's the big deal if the tradesmen and our artists get a temporary disability allowance for standing-up treatments? The women from BUG-KUR want to be born in debt. Do it, dear. Do it all for the rich? What if the insurance people who owe the premiums also benefit from health care, and it's not their right, is it, human? You care more about negotiating with the PKK than you care about the tradesman. You don't represent the president of the tradesmen and artists in institutions where the tradesman needs to be represented, you take him to the PKK business with the smart man. Indirect taxes are increasing because the shopkeeper and the citizen are paying. Cheap import business is a mess. The check is worthless, signed as the children scribbled on their elementary school papers. The debt rate of the household has risen from 5 per cent to 25 per cent. The tradesman has been fed up with taxes for many years. There's no East, there's taxes in the West. Every year you try to compromise, they can't pay. You need to renegotiate, you make law again, there's no end of compromise. One of the most important problems of our tradesmen and artists is the unfair and ruthless competition in the retail sector. You surrendered to the malls, the capital, and you surrendered to the tradesman yourself. The unfair competition, which feeds on the lack of rules in the retail sector, has affected many tradesmen and artists, and has led to the closing of trades and artists' businesses. As in the developed countries, the lack of working rules for the sector leads the small tradesman to the process of extinction. There's consumer law upstairs. The government works for the interest lobby. There he puts the interest aside for these banks to get interest, what does he do with the other expenses? He's trying to authorize the Banking Board of Editors and Control to collect, he's trying to rob the tradesman, the citizen. The government has surrendered to the interest lobby. If the AKP has gained 5 times as much income during its ruling period, if it has profited, the Prime Minister must explain who they are. If there is such a thing in your era, if the Prime Minister is speaking frankly, then what does it have to be? You have to tell them who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are. Don't let the people down, don't let the tradesmen down. Look, there's no mastery in Denizli, so the tradesman's rooms are a problem, they're a problem. On the other hand, apply 5084, why are you making a difference in employment everywhere? Let Denizli take advantage of it. What do you have to do with the signature of the entire Marine Businessmen platform? They're announcing it to the entire community with all their signatures. The government doesn't respond to this, tax problems continue in Denizli. The gazebo Organised Industry is disabled, it doesn't work. No investments. What are you saying is good? You work for the interest lobby upstairs. Tell me clearly, clearly, in the time of the AKP, who is the five-fold increase in income that Mr. Prime Minister expressed, who gave it to, how did he get it? These things need to be made clear to the community. Up there, the consumer says: "This is my law. You oppress me to the banks, and you authorize the BDDK, so that he may receive commissions from me, and take wages from me. You give your authority to the Central Bank of Ministers. What's the Central Bank doing? I'm not interested in the terms of free competition, he says. Now, when you look at it, you're crushing the tradesman's business, you're with the interest lobby. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0080par0049	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The second speaker on the proposal of the National Party of Action Group is Mr. Hüseyin Saddendiz, and he is against it. Mr. Don't worry, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0081par0053	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the nationalist Movement Party's motion to investigate the problems of tradesmen and artists. I salute your high council. Our tradesman, institutions and people who should be supported by the Constitution, and so far all governments in the Republic of Turkey have tried to support them by side with our tradesman. However, when the speaker from earlier, the esteemed spokesman of the National Movement Party, said the statements about the tradesman here, I found it more accurate to express my thoughts about them first. In particular, he said: "The tradesman became very distressed in the power of the poor AK PARTY. " Dear lawmakers, when the government, which was very resourceful in 1999-2002, was in charge of the ruling National Movement Party in 1999, and especially the ministry responsible for the tradesman's ministry, look what happened during those resourceful times: they went out on street walks, all of Turkey's trade hikes were staged, closed their shutters, nearly a million tradesmen were bankrupt, the cash register was thrown out in front of the prime minister's office, and at that time, the overnight interest was up to 7%, and at the very last time they passed on to our AK PARTI power, they turned on trade loans as 47 per cent interest. Now, these are the actions of the capable government. However, he expressed that our power was inept, but I'm also going to tell you what the AK PARTI government has done with its true resourcefulness. Dear MPs, our government, the Traders and Artists, have developed a vision by declaring Change, Transformation, Support Strategy Document and Action Plan. In this vision, seven priorities and 30 measures have been set. If we look at these priorities in this framework, one of the priorities is improving the terms of credit and financing. Second: reducing taxes, employment and other obligations. Third: the development of education and counselling services. Fourth: the development of innovation and initiative. Fifth: supporting infrastructure, clustering and partnership activities. Sixth: to make legal arrangements. And the seventh is: to ensure that the tradesmen and artists benefit from the European Union programmes. The first priority of this strategy document is to improve the loans of our tradesmen and artists. Now, the amount of loan given during that resourceful power period was 153 million a year, and in 2013, the amount of loans offered to the tradesman during our rule increased to 7.5 billion euros. Again, the interest rate left to us in the 47 per cent from 120 per cent in that resourceful period of power dropped to 4 per cent in 2013. Again, interest support for our trade was raised to 50 per cent in May 2013, when it was in the 20 per cent earlier. And as of today, our tradesman's interest rate is four percent less than a year old, and a year has recently been increased to five percent. As of the end of 2012, 850,000 people from tradesmen and artists have become creditors. In 2012, investment loans were introduced to up to 250,000 liras. These were done during our reign. In addition, for the first time, during our rule, members of KOSGEB supports were not used by tradesmen and tradesmen, while SME definitions were changed, and our tradespeople were also used by trade and bail co-ops between 2010-2011 and 39 million TL. Again, with the changes we have made in tax legislation, this immunity has been granted to those who have previously been changed from real procedure to simple procedure, especially to those we call small-time tradesmen and artists, and who have started a business in crafts. Most importantly, a protocol was signed with TOKI to co-operate with the TOKI on our trades by the TOKI, to open a business, and the first project of this was launched in Kayseri. These works are being carried out in provinces such as Butler, Bursa. Again, the work done in our Ministry of Interior has been done to improve the physical conditions of the locations where the tradesmen and artists operate, and 77 projects have been carried out. Again, the Turkish Institute of Standards has prepared 48 new standards for our tradesman to produce quality goods. And most importantly, when our tradesmen and artists were not allowed into public tenders before, the problems of the practices of our tradesmen and artists to participate in public tenders have been resolved, and our tradesmen and artists have begun to enter public tenders. Again, the staff of 3,586 occupational organisations in 35 counties were given seminars on European Union projects to benefit from tradesmen and artists from European Union programmes. After expressing these things about the tradesman, we need to get into KOSGEB, because one of the issues in this research proposal is COSGEB. We can only give you this information: In 1990 and 2002, 4,000 people were benefiting from COSGEB. According to the COSGEB database, 706,000 people were benefiting from the COSGEB. An important support from these is that the loan guarantee fund, which I've been in the past, which has been under my control, has had very little bail support for the trades and the SMEs, which has exceeded 500 times as much as our ten-year power has reached billions of dollars. And of course, the shortcomings... do we need a new arrangement on the Credit Guarantee Fund? It has to be done. I would also like to express here my opinion that the restructuring of the Credit Guarantee Fund would be more appropriate to provide bail for our tradesman. Again, the number of people who failed to pay the loans provided by tradesmen and bail co-ops has increased day by day. Back payments in 2002 were around 40 per cent, while the repayments reached 92 per cent in 2013. It has been expressed that there is no certificate of mastery. When the Republic of Turkey was founded, all the developments that had not really developed enough investment capital were on our business, and the mastery document was an important document, but it felt that it was not right to ask for a mastery document from those who were still doing industry in an integrated global economy and still integrated in the world, and with those ideas, we are against the research proposal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0082par0077	Thank you, Mr. Sadness. The third speaker on the proposal of the National Movement Party Group is Mr. Turgay Develi, Adana MP. Mr. Develi, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0083par0081	Mr. President, I think our fellow lawmakers, who have just heard the AK PARTI MP, are surprised whether they live in Turkey or in another country. He said that things were going well, that the economy was going well, that the tradesmen's work was very good, that the citizens had no problems, that they had a good life in a pink economy, that the truth wasn't, but at least our citizens, with a fire in their pockets, know very well that they have a fire in their kitchen. In that sense, I'd like to rephrase that we're going to vote in favour of the National Movement Party's research motion. The economic indicators, the numbers, the status of the citizen. The citizen patiently waits patiently and patiently for these elections to come before the polls. If, as the congressman said in Turkey, the tradesman, the artist, the worker, the worker, the peasant's job was on the way, the unemployment figures shouldn't be at this point, the citizens' loan debt to banks shouldn't be at this point, the minimum wage should not be at this point, the quality of living standards, the calibration shouldn't be at this point. In fact, we should not only distinguish the problem of the tradesman and the artist from other problems. I want to give you an example, a very concrete, live example. I've told you many times from this bench that this country's Justice and Development Party works like a public institution, where the Privatisation Administration collects all the values the state collects, so to speak -- I always use the same word -- with much heavier capital than capitalization. In fact, I wish the Minister of Energy had been here -- he was just here -- I would have expressed that to him. Do you remember when I said that the President of the Privatisation Administration here left money in the vault at Firat and Meram, cost the state 126 million lira, and that the audit board reports that documented it were persistently and persistently hiding from you, the valued MPs and our people? Finally, on Wednesday last week, when the OSCE upper commission discussed TEDAS's reports, these inspection reports came out, along with the top report from the Ministry of Energy's audit board. The fact that our great nation, the valued lawmakers: The Privatisation Administration Chairman, reports of irregularity in energy distribution tenders have come out that these tenders are being handed down to the vaults of companies that have been privatized, who have made these tenders, who have written them, who don't know what they're doing or have not yet been shown in court on purpose. In Firat and Meram, reports that only the President of the Privatisation Administration of the two companies has tried to hide, hide, conceal, and conceal, indicate that nearly $30m of money was transferred to the vault of companies that should be kept in the state's vault. A total of 11 companies transferred 126 million liras to private companies due to practices stemming from privatisation logic, which stems from the understanding of creating the AK PARTI's own supporting capital. We've been telling this for months, we've been telling it for over a year, we've been saying, "Don't do this, bring them in, don't transfer people's money to create your own friendly capital." You kept the documents, you didn't make the review board reports persistently, and now it's out. You know what's weird, Mr. AK PARTY MPs? In your administration, the President of the Privatisation Administration in the Prime Minister's administration has acknowledged this mistake, this unlawfulness. When we submitted a research motion here, your automatically shielded fingers rejected that research motion. Now, the President of the Privatisation Administration in your administration has acknowledged our right to this right and the right of the Republican People's Party and has had to change the condition. Now, in the last eight tenders, and in the next five tenders, he had to put the requirement for the transfer of the existing funds from the safe to TEDAS. I thought you said the tenders were clean, there was no law. Then why did they agree? Now, you're going to pay for this, for your conscience. The second incident was that the President of the Privatisation Administration, especially in Merum, had identified the TEDAS investigators in the last month, before taking over the privatized company, and the investigation had reached its final stage. They took it from the review board and sent it to the Department of Energy review board. They want to vaporize the report, but we won't let them. Two hundred thousand digits. Investigators estimate that the amount of money being transferred is around $30 million, which is not read on the meter. Isn't that a sin? If what you did was right, why did you change the terms now? If you left 126 million liras in the safe, now that you've changed the condition, why are you filing a report from the Department of Energy Control to prevent the collection of $88 million of that $126 million? Guys, you owe people money. Because this nation can't pay $2 worth of electricity, they're powering down, using illegal electricity. You know, the numbers are used by illegal electricity, reaching 90 percent, 80 percent. And you can't stop them at the same time as the police, the gendarmes, the D.A.'s office. Why do you prevent the government from collecting 126 million liras from this nation? There's no law clause that says these coins can't be collected. And since the new condition is that they are to be taken into custody, why don't you press charges? These cases need to be filed, valuable lawmakers. Don't leave this nation's money to the rich you've created with privatisation contracts. And do not let a soul take away from it what the two people bring forward, and what they add to it, it is a sin. Look, I've been saying it here for over a year; I said don't, don't, don't. Finally, the truth came out. What's the truth? The process of the EC PARTY government's Prime Ministerial Privatisation Administration was not legal. You agreed to this, and the President of the Privatisation Administration has agreed. Come on, don't extend it, don't take it to the courts and delay it by concealing the reports. The money in the middle is 126 million liras. Do you guys know how much money will be left in the government's vault because the terms have just changed? Over 250 million liras. This is the money that the Republican People's Party will stay in the safe for the next tender -- 8 plus 5 -- because of its persistent pursuit of this case, because of the amendment of its contracts -- but to get the 126 million dollars you left in the private sector's vault, unfortunately, we need your support; it demands your support, and I offer my respect.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0084par0092	Thank you, Mr. Develi. Mehmet Mush is the last speaker of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0085par0096	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the motion to investigate the Parliamentary Movement Party. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, there's a concept that first entered our literature in 1980: the middle pole. The late Turgut uses this term in the Union of Natural Traders Congress, and this term for tradesmen and artists has been used by our citizens, from that day forward, by the public. Dear lawmakers, the more peaceful the tradesman becomes, the more peaceful the society becomes, the more comfortable society becomes, the safer the tradesman feels. From the day we came to power, we've started a lot of work on the problems of our tradesman, and we've made big moves at the point of minimizing their problems, their jobs getting better, their jobs getting better. Now, I'd like to mention some of these studies here: Dear lawmakers, because of political and economic stability caught during our post-2002 rule, there have been significant increases in national revenues, increased per capita revenues, reduced inflation rates, and future forecasts have become more comfortable. Again, because of the declines in interest rates, the tradesmen were able to find cheaper, lower-cost financing resources for themselves, and they had the opportunity to expand their business in this environment. In the beginning of our practices for the esteemed lawmakers, tradesmen and artists, the strategy for change, transformation, and support comes from 3D. Seven priorities have been set to support this strategy document, which includes growth, continuous development, permanence, association with one-on-one clients, the vision of adapting to technological developments. The first is improving the terms of credit and financing. Others may be listed as reducing taxes, employment and other obligations; developing education, counselling services; developing innovative and entrepreneurial; promoting infrastructure, clustering and partnership activities; establishing legal regulations; providing the benefit of our tradesmen from European Union funds. See, valued lawmakers also do their part in building a dwelling, a business, a facility, and a production area for our tradespeople. In this context, 698 production sites, 346 exhibitions and other businesses were planned to be delivered to our shop under a protocol signed in Kayseri, which was signed in 2011. Following this, the same works have been given in our provinces of Bursa, Bolu and Uber. See, valuable lawmakers, in 2007 a serious tax study was carried out and the value tax was reduced from 18% to 8 percent. In addition to restaurants, hotels, motels, resorts, resorts and so on, this has been given a discount on businesses such as restaurants, coffeehouses, country coffeehouses, tea gardens, teahouses, cafeterias, cakehouses, standing food, or shops that sell food in packages. Again, we have a record pardon for the tradesman's lack of payment. Sometimes the tradesman got stuck, sometimes he couldn't plan to pay, or there were times when he couldn't pay his check, because there was a different situation, and they went on record. These checks or bonds were being protested, the back was being printed. As a result, the tradesman found it difficult or unable to use cheques and similar instruments or faced difficulties at the point of access to credit. So, in 2009, there was an arrangement known as a public record pardon for the removal of this problem. With this arrangement, the records of 358,907 protest bonds and 3,800,454 unrequited checks have been erased from their records, and our tradesman has been allowed to breathe in peace. Again, the interest on the tradesmen's fees to the rooms has been wiped out, and the delays in the rooms' fees to the troops have been erased. Another arrangement has been made through TESKOMB since 2003 and has been structured four times to buy co-ops, and our business is liberated from the foreclosure, and interest has been eliminated and a huge burden has been taken from the shop's shoulder. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I spoke in my speech yesterday, but since I was useful in repeating it again... there was a big problem in society with the BUG-KUR. Especially because of the savings of our tradesmen and artists, and because of their BUG-KUR bonus debt, the tradesman was facing a major problem because of his interest debts, as much as his principals, and as much as his savings. In 2008, a total of 853,766 BUG-KUR Again, valuable lawmakers, you know, KOSGEB was founded on 12 April 1990 and served with 8 centers at the time, supporting 79 tradeshops in 72 districts today. From the second half of 2010, KOSGEB went to some $9m tradesmen and artists with 18.9 per cent of R&D support for SMEs. Again, 10 million dollars of funding for entrepreneurial support has gone to tradesmen and artists, which are 38.5 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, while there were talks about issues, of course, we were accused of the following: certain statements that we supported the interest lobby, that we carried water to the interest lobby. I'd like to make this clear to you. See, valued lawmakers, 153 million liras that were allocated to the tradesmen and artists when we took power in 2002. 38,000 tradesmen can take advantage of it, and the top limit of it is 5,000 liras, which is that a tradesman could use a maximum of $5,000, which is now increased by about 46 to 47 times to 7.5 billion dollars. We have 860,000 tradesmen who have the opportunity to take advantage of this place and interest rates have been reduced to 4 percent. See, in 2002, the tradesmen's interest was 59 per cent, 59 per cent, and now I'm going to say that by highlighting this number here -- it's down to 4 per cent. If someone's moving water into the interest lobby, if someone's working for the interest lobby, I think it's a pretty good picture of who they are and who they are.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0086par0110	Give us some, give us some!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0085par0111	Look, the high-value lawmakers know how much of their tax revenues went to interest payments in 2002.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0087par0112	Citizen, how much interest...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0085par0113	No one here knows that the tax collected by 85 per cent was paid at the cost of financing by the tradesman and artist, which is now down to 16.6 per cent. Dear lawmakers, how the tradesman's sweat goes to the interest lobby, that's the best way to show it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0088par0115	I mean, is the citizen all right?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0085par0116	Look, as far as the years go...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0088par0117	If you don't hear the citizen, the citizen is fine.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0085par0118	...from 59 percent to 30 percent in 2003, 25 per cent in 2004 and 4 per cent in 2013. Now, I'd like to ask if we're paying off the tradesman's sweats to the interest lobby, or did the guys before we got here? Please, while we're doing the reviews...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0089par0119	The Prime Minister said so himself, they won five times as much, the Prime Minister said so.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0085par0120	I think it's much healthier, much fairer, and much fairer if we do these things with regard to them. Again, valuable lawmakers, see, 59 per cent are willing to pay the trade, says OK. Let me pay 59 per cent, but how much can I get? Look, high-value lawmakers, 5,000 lira tops, that's the limit. Do you know what that number was today? It ranges from 125 to 250 liras. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, again, I would like to present here another amendment to our business. The tradesmen and artists were more of a busy business, so there would be individuals, there would be a few people, there would be five or six people, the structures of small businesses, and these structures, if they held the conditions, could go from simple to real procedure, and were subject to actual taxing...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0090par0124	So, you're saying there's nothing wrong with the tradesman?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0085par0125	And once again, even if they lost the terms, they couldn't go back to the simple way. Look, with an arrangement on June 15, 2012, the beginning of a tradesman's return to simple procedure was opened again if he had lost those terms in the real way. Honorable lawmakers continue to work on opening the way for the tradesman, for his jobs to be better, and will continue to be increased. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that we would be against the group proposal of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0091par0129	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0092par0130	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0091par0131	Sir?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0092par0132	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0091par0133	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: All those in favor, all those in denial. There's been a disagreement between the clerks, and we'll vote with the electronic device.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0093par0136	Don't you see, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0091par0137	Do you have any objections?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0093par0138	Yeah, don't you see?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0091par0139	Your friend sees it, too.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0093par0140	He says he doesn't exist.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0091par0141	He says he doesn't. He sees, we have. If we say he doesn't, we don't see him? Please, friends, please, please. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion has been denied. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday 19/6/2013 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Mersin MP Vakap elects and is given by 21 MPs on 18/6/2013 by Turkey's Grand National Assembly (973rd rows) to investigate the problems in this sector and the trafficking of those who know about the internal turmoil in Syria, as well as the damage caused by illegal fuel to the economy and the environment (973 rows). lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in Wednesday's 19/6/2013 jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Vahab, MP of Mersin. Mr. Chooser, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0094par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation into the illegal fuel incidents. My dear friends, you know, Turkey collects a significant portion of its tax as an indirect tax. The most important pens we collect indirect taxes are fuel. So, like alcohol, the tax rate is high, like cigarettes, and the indirect tax rate from high pens makes trafficking attractive in fuel. Formerly, fuel trafficking has been Turkey's key agenda for trafficking, but since early 2011, after the internal turmoil in Syria, the issue has reached even more important points and has faced significant dramatic increases in trafficking. Turkey's oil market has about 27 million tonnes of potential, of course, significant potential. And in terms of smuggling, of course, the numbers that we have don't represent the whole of the illegal fuel entering Turkey, I'm just going to hand over to you the seized amounts that were seized by law enforcement and security forces: look, in 2011, 10.3 million litres of fuel is caught, and then in 2012, that rate increases to 16.4 million liters. Notice that internal disturbances in Syria began in February 2011, March, and after that, there was a significant increase in 59 to 60 percent. Not only Syria, fuel is entering Turkey as a fugitive from Iraq and Middle Eastern countries, from our land border or from our sea border, from our ports. In addition to the Syrian events, indeed, especially in neighbouring areas of Syria, in Shanghai, in Osmaniye, Gaziantep, Hatay, as you may recall -- there has been an explosion recently -- the owners of oil stations in Adana, Mersin, that provide oil in the Indian, in particular from the refinery, in billed, legally supplying oil and offering them to sell them in legal ways. These friends of ours are in bankruptcy. These vehicles are made large tanks, fuel tanks are made, and fuel is smuggled into Turkey, especially by trucks, buses, or bus transports, and fuel tanks. This -- it was done in foreign media -- especially with Syrian dissidents -- the Syrian opposition channel that your government supports. The foreign press gave and announced the square images of these images to the world over and over again. Here, in particular in northern Syria, they have captured raw oil deposits, where they have acquired raw oil, either refined it in primitive ways, or they spend it as a fugitive to Turkey. Indeed, Turkey has significant tax loss, $2.5 billion a year. I just told you, there are businesses that have reached bankruptcy, closing point. These people will either resort to illegal means; they will steal, they will be shameless -- because of you -- or they will shut down these businesses. There's a security issue. Here are the explosions in Hatay, the explosions in tanker accidents, the loss of life as a result. The reason for all this is that you tolerate Syrian dissidents, which is that -- frankly, I'm telling you -- even your government condones fuel smuggling. You know, there's been some internal confusion in Syria, and the opposition there has a significant cost. The AKP clearly supports the ruling opposition in Syria; logistically supports it, supports it as education, supports it as housing, supports it as health care, supports it as weapons supply. And where does he get it from? The official figures of AFAD are: 960 million dollars spent from the beginning of 2011. There are no tools, no machine equipment spending; there is no expense for governorships; there is no cost for the weapons that you provide from Saudi Arabia, from Qatar, from some sources. The government's funds from the Prime Minister's covert grant are not included. This is the cost of the unknown conflict to Turkey. It's costing us security, leave the unrest, millions of dollars worth of money coming out of the Turkish vault, from its treasure. My dear friends, can't the government prevent this? Of course, he can't prevent such a clumsy government. Mr. Arinc was describing, describing, and describing, the barn for the Travel Park. However, Turkey's Syrian border has turned into a barn of Dingo. Stop leading law enforcement to the people you call the corrupt, Vandal, looter, who are using their democratic rights. If you're looking for a job for law enforcement, take control of the borders. Look, there's no fake Vandals, there's no fake Vandals, there's no looters, there's no looters, there's real thugs, there's real Vandals, there's real looters. Go, control Turkey's borders. My dear friends, the 17th Mediterranean Games will be officially opened tomorrow. You know, we ran out of tickets days before the opening. At the new Mersin Arena Stadium, which has a capacity of 25,000, a simple citizen can't find a ticket if he wants to go to openings right now. Where would they get a ticket? It's a claim, it's got wiretaps. You're looking for the Muft of Mersin. There's an officer there. Here's the officer's name. From which region are you calling? From........... is leading you to the mosque of Mezitli. You're looking for the mosque imam, T.C. You give him your ID number, he checks it out, and I wonder if this caller is our ally. If he's his followers, he's providing tickets for official openings. That's the argument. We're going to bring it up, of course, and we're going to present it to the authorities concerned with the motion to question it. Everyone's entitled to that organization. No matter what political party he belongs to there, all the municipalities, all the NGOs, all the dynamics of the city, Mersin, all the dynamics of the organization have rights, sweat, labor. The CHP has a right there, and the AKP has a right to it, and the BDP has a right to it, and the MPP/li has a right to it. Now, what is the Prime Minister afraid of? You know, at the opening of the facilities, he missed an opportunity two weeks ago. Now I speak to the Prime Minister: Open wide the gates of Mersin Arena Stadium, and do not fear the people. The understanding of democracy, of freedom, of basic rights and freedoms is not afraid of the public. You don't have to be afraid of the people. Open the gates, and all the people of Mersin, regardless of which political party they belong, will attend the official openings. Don't let him miss this opportunity, Prime Minister. Let him go before the microphones in three weeks, in his own statements, in his separatist speech, in his style, in a unifying, integrating way, in front of microphones, and in a manner worthy of the spirit of the Mediterranean Games, let all the peoples of Turkey call to unity, unity, peace, and brotherhood. My dear friends, the subject of the research motion we're talking about, the issue of illegal fuel, is an important issue. I'm looking forward to the support of all our fellow lawmakers. I give you all my deepest love and respect.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0095par0170	Thank you, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0096par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0095par0172	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0096par0173	Mr. President, the speaker has expressed the Prime Minister's fear of the public. He also made some allegations.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0097par0174	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0098par0175	Is there a definition, a taunting expression, here, that he was afraid of the people? What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0096par0176	Yes, sir, he said to the Prime Minister, "Do not be afraid of the people." He said, "He is afraid of the people." I want an explanation, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0097par0177	What's the big deal, there's a tease?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0098par0178	Oh, my God! You idolized him. We call him that, and then they get angry!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0099par0179	Here you are, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0100par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, my dear friends, Mersin has received an enormous investment with the Mediterranean Olympics, received a fine service, and even took over an Olympic event due to the economic crisis in Greece. Because he had a strong economy, because he had a strong power, he soon acquired investments he could not imagine, millions of dollars invested, huge investments made.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0101par0184	No democracy, no investment, no democracy.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0100par0185	For once, one should be congratulated for that, one. Second, the Olympics -- above name -- is the home of sports, peace, brotherhood, peace. That's what he said about peace, peace, brotherhood, that's where it's supposed to be, by getting up here and making all sorts of claims, all sorts of things, without proof, without proof, without documentation, without documentation, that's what he said, that's what he did. That's what he did. That's what he said.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0102par0187	We say don't do that. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0100par0188	I, Mr. Vahap, don't like you either. I'm a person who likes your style. Indeed, I agree with your criticism, something else. One, I wanted to draw attention to that. Second, for God's sake, the Prime Minister is afraid of the people. This is the Prime Minister of this people, a Prime Minister who came to power with the support of 50 per cent of this people. How can this Prime Minister fear the public? Who are the ones who are afraid of the people? It's the people who want to fish in the murky water, who want to feed on crises, chaos. Those who fear the public are afraid of polls, elections, democratic channels. I wanted to share it with the public. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0103par0193	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0104par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0103par0195	Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0104par0196	He said he didn't like the way I spoke.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0105par0197	But you said it yourself.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0104par0198	I consider that an insult. Please, I want your word on that.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0105par0199	I like the way you sound, sir. It's not that I don't like it, it's a friend I like.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0106par0200	Yes, please, Mr. Chosen. Please don't challenge a second tease...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0105par0202	I mean, I like the general way, but this way...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0107par0203	Ask him how much Mersin Airport is publicized for.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0108par0205	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, Mr. Aydın has never seen such an investment in his life. It's an international organization, right, with major investments like $500 million in state-strength, but Mersin hasn't seen the persecution he's seen in the last ten years. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look -- here are the Mersin MPs -- you haven't nailed Mersin as AKP in ten years. We'll do it, we'll do it... lt's always a story! You've always told tales to the Mersinites.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0109par0208	Oh, come on! Europe will follow all of Mersin, and three continents will follow. Don't you want Mersin to be introduced? Shouldn't the world watch Mersin?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0110par0209	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0108par0210	Now, Mr. Prime Minister isn't afraid of the public. He says Mr. Aydın, but look, Mr. Aydın, who wants to exercise his democratic rights with environmental precision...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0110par0211	Say thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0108par0212	Look, you know, look, I like your style, too, but please be right. People protesting in the Travel Park with environmental precision...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0111par0213	Don't you think young people should work out?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0112par0214	Do they do malls in Mersin, mall?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0108par0215	...in the morning with your cannon, your rifle, your TOMA, your pepper spray.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0113par0216	Yeah, say thank you, say thank you to the Mersinites.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0112par0217	Do you want them to do a mall or a mall or a mall?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0108par0218	You don't have to be afraid of the people, you don't have to be afraid of the people.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0113par0219	Say thank you to the Mersinites.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0108par0220	We're saying the same thing about the opening of the Mediterranean Games...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0114par0221	Don't you want Mersin to be the Olympic champion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0115par0222	Do you have a mall, mall?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0116par0223	Let's hear it, guys. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0117par0224	In accordance with the spirit of the Mediterranean Games, I warn Mr. Prime Minister, this is an opportunity, and tomorrow I'll get tickets on the black market, or I'll call that imam friend, get a ticket, and I'll go to the openings.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0118par0225	Don't be unfair to people!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0119par0226	Do you have a mall, mall?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0120par0227	Can't they swim? Don't you want them to be Olympic champions?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0121par0228	If the Prime Minister uses unifying, complementary, peaceful words, I promise I'll applaud, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0231	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0123par0232	Clap...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0124par0233	Can't they swim? Don't you want them to be Olympic champions?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0234	Yeah, yeah, let's hear it, guys. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0125par0236	Do you have a mall in Mersin, AVM?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0237	Just a second.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0126par0238	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0127par0239	Mr. President, I've just received a citizen...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0241	I don't hear it, bro, everybody's yelling, I don't hear it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0127par0242	One moment, sir, I'll tell you something. What...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0243	Please... please... yes, tell me now.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0127par0244	A citizen just phoned me. He said, "I am Elazım. I went to Mersin. The Mediterranean Games don't give all the tickets to the AKP people." Here, let's prove it...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0128par0245	Mr. President, Mr. President, do we present every claim from the people who called us about our friends, the people who made the allegations? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0246	Yeah, okay, guys, okay, okay.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0127par0247	Recep Erdoğana...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0248	Please... please... it's on the books.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0127par0249	After that, I'll have your ticket on the black market...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0250	Mr. Young, you've made a report, please... please...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0129par0251	Let them know to say thank you once, sir. So many investments are invested in Mersin, so many services are being served, so let them know to thank him.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0256	The second speaker on the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Mr. Adnan Şeker. Mr. Ugly, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0130par0258	Don't throw rocks, don't throw Molotovs, play sports!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0131par0259	Let the mall do it!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0122par0260	Guys, please, please, let's just calm down. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0132par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion by the Republican People's Party to smuggle diesel across the Syrian border. I salute you all with respect, love, respect. Now, actually, of course, that's a very important problem. This is nothing more than an epiphany of how many times we've expressed that this line has become a power from this bench. This motion is the right one. There's no limit to the smuggling done there, and as you all know today, nine of our citizens have lost their lives in the village of Altınözüsı district of Hatay. So this is just one of the dramas that you've been going in the wrong direction, that you haven't corrected despite the warnings, that the government's wrong Syrian policy, that they've made mistakes in Syrian policy. Not a day goes by that there will be no attack on soldiers waiting for the border of the Turkish Armed Forces in the Belter and other villages on the borders of Reyhanlı. Almost every day, it's as if their father's goods are coming, horses, big guns, shooting at our soldiers every day. We've got an expert sergeant down last night. You still don't realize anything, you just don't realize it. There'll be an incident like this tomorrow, a few of our soldiers will be martyrs, and then we'll come to our senses. The border has returned to the inn crossing the border, and the passport-free arrivals have now become so formal that what do you do, one of our policemen, this is the border, the mountainside, the barn of Dingo? Take your passport out like that. When you say so, they shoot and martyr. But what are we dealing with? We're dealing with other things. Dear friends, this is no way to rule, this is no way to govern a state. You say we've been in power for ten years. But even though we've been insisting on it for two years, the president of the Syrian border provinces, Şanlıurfa, Hatay... the Chamber of Gasiantep Chamber of Commerce is making a statement about this fuel smuggling, and he says it needs to be stopped. You haven't solved the border issue in two years. In fact, the government itself is the root of this problem, but the government, I didn't see it, I didn't hear it, and they're playing three monkeys and they're not even responding. When we insist on expressing these things, ten years of development, national income, the world's 16th-largest largest economy, like this, respected Turkey, our Prime Minister's world leadership, but 52 lives in Reyhan. Is it worth it? Does this world leadership solve these issues? Does this world leadership, the 16th largest economy, solve the drama at the borders and tensions in those counties? No. But we have to say, whatever we say, as lawmakers of the ruling party on both televisions, you, the ministers are coming in here and they're telling us about the development of the economy, the growth, that's what it's all about. So now, there's no justice here either, so there's no justice in this smuggling. In Iğdır, this fuel smuggling is measured to a square inch of border control. I mean, I don't make a claim that my Iğdır people are smuggling from here, and they're making money from it, but this smuggling is getting loose from the bottom of it, from all the provinces of the southeast. We're getting this information. Why is it happening? How is it happening? He's confused this time. So he says, "Is there something different about me?" If it's forbidden, it's forbidden to everyone, and if it's free, it's free for everyone. Dear friends, I mean, we're talking about gas smuggling, of course, but I can't help but say that it's a good thing that you're smuggling diesel, which means that Hatay farmer buys gas for about $2 and at least takes a breather. This government, in the plain of Amik, has made the cottonman of the land of Kirkhan, and Reyhan, and Sandluh, suffer. And the foothill, and the olive oiler in the goldenpot, and the tobacconist, are desolate. The four ways, the narcissist of Erzin (Erzin) is in a state of misery. So whoever's living off the farm is a mess to burn down this diesel. The mover, he's miserable, too, because of the Syrian situation... which means that a lack of control, a disorder, for the first time, helps the citizen. That's a black joke. Let me put it this way. The motion is correct, but that's the point. Don't get me wrong, I'm a farmer, and they've brought us $2, and we're the deputy of the state, and it's shameful, and it's forbidden. Dear friends, the government has some very important things to deal with, so instead of dealing with these very important things, the government is doing other things, instead of fixing these boundaries, it's dealing with Gezi. On the trip, 25-30 or 200-300 provocateurs say Turkey has stirred up. So now, how is 300 provocateurs going to stir up a country; if there's no trouble in that country, if there's no trouble with the farmer, if there's no trouble with the student, if there's no trouble with the officer, what's the excuse for them to go out on the street? So if we're a government like this, it means that 300 provocateurs have already put hundreds of thousands, millions on the street, and, pardon me, in your ten-year government, you may have been a government, but in that sense, you haven't been a state. You listen to the trouble. We don't have a political understanding that will allow the government of the people who come with the chest to be dismissed on another occasion, in antidemocratic ways, but if you don't get to the bottom of the matter here, as you did with Syria, as you did with the problems that Syria has caused in us, then your power and your party, unfortunately, and our country will pay the price. Children are being kidnapped in Reyhan today, so it's not just diesel crossing the border. Ten days ago, a very well-known family of Reyhan, an 8-year-old boy, who I refer to to to other district lawmakers, the bride Hatay, the Reyhanite, and if you don't believe her, call your friends from that area, ask them. It's a mess. You should be ashamed of that. Eight-year-old kid gets put in the trunk of a car, gets kidnapped. The neighborhood is being rescued from God by the neighborhood's infinitive. Who's the kidnapper? Syrian is currently under arrest, but on the one hand there is pressure from various bureaucratic factions, which, Yehu, give up your case, are our guests. These are the people of Reyhan -- I repeat -- they've been doing the entourage the Prime Minister requested for two years now, but now they're disturbing his peace. I mean, it's about to get real. There's been a bombing, and after that, the declarations: Syria, the Commune, it's like this, it's like this... I mean, I'm sorry, it's just that there's no sign of the Alevi community. That's no way to run a state. In Reyhan, 52 of our citizens are martyrs, and while our Prime Minister is expressing it, (53) Sunni is dead, he says. It's a divider of society. That's a mind-blowing attitude. Dear friends, I hope this motion will be carried out as well, but it will be done in accordance with the disgrace and humiliation of these borders. We can't wait for the border. If you say and you declare it, as a government, this country and the borders of this land will also be waiting, because it is written on the walls of the border and written on the door of the border. There is no honor left in the border, and I would like to express it to this House in the first place and to our entire nation watching us. Thank you all. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0133par0273	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. The third speaker on the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Mr. Alton Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Mr. Tan, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0134par0277	Mr. President, members of parliament, I'd like to present my opinion on the Parliament's research motion for the Republican People's Party for fuel smuggling on the Syrian border. Dear friends, first of all, I want to get into this smuggling issue, and then I want to come to the Syria issue, so I want to present my speech to you on two main topics, and I want to do it. I've forgotten the number of questions I've made about this smuggling issue, plus I've submitted a parliamentary research motion, and I've already shared with you the answers to these written question motions. Dear friends, Turkey has a serious issue of fuel smuggling. We need to speak in cold blood and find a solution in cold blood, not to blame it on each other, or to make an enemy out of it, or to cover it up. The amount of fuel smuggling in Turkey yearly is $14 billion, according to information reported by National Intelligence, a figure of $2.5 billion, which is the basis for CHP's research motion, is only related to the amount of fuel captured. According to media reports that the government's intelligence reports have been identified and prepared, the actual amount is $14.5 billion. Now, my dear friends, no matter what we're up against, we're up against a massive 14-15 billion-dollar smuggler, the media and government are constantly taking over the border with Iran, on the border with the Iraqi border with the cans and donkeys on the border with Syria, excuse us, on donkey backs, on mule backs, and again, from 2007 to 2011, 92.5 million litres of illegal fuel across the country, all 14 million litres in the eastern and southeast provinces. So wherever you look at it, about 90 percent of it is the amount of fuel that was captured in the western provinces. As the provinces are ranked again, cities such as Izmir, Istanbul, Ankara, Gaziantep, Kopeeli, Zonguldak, Hatay stand out. Van, Hakkari, Şırnak, Mardin, again put in front of the media, can't even rank the cities. Dear friends, there's a full theater going on here, and I'm getting your attention again, this is almost all of the first cities in question, the coastal provinces. This is in Turkish: it's fuel smuggling, precious friends, ships. Otherwise, it doesn't happen with 20 cans, 30 cans, that poor Hakkarili, Vanlı, Şırnakan brought in at night. So how come the state's national intelligence agency reports $14.5 billion in smuggling and can't find the people who did it? Where are the big ships approaching? What is going on in the port of Antalya, and what is happening in the city of Kokeleli, where even the deaf sultan now hears that it is the center of the business? I said a few more times: "A former minister's son is in charge of this work. " I didn't mention any names, and I didn't mention them today. The next day, he says to a certain close friend of mine: "What does he want from us? Dear friends, if there's such a big smuggling in a country and the intelligence agencies can't figure out who did it, believe me, not even five-year-olds will believe it. Now, we ask very calmly, dear friends, the national intelligence, military intelligence, police smuggling, police intelligence -- we don't know how many agencies there are -- if you like your God who does these things, don't you know these things? If you don't know, shut down all these intelligence agencies, shut them down, no money for nothing, no pay for anyone. If you know, then what is this theater? Who does this stuff? And what's even more interesting is that today, against international commercial rules, the Iraqi Kurdistan regional administration -- right now their names are clear, firms are being transferred open oil, but according to international agreements, it's illegal. The Iraqi government, the Maliki government, is screaming. The American Ambassador says: "Take full interest in not 20 percent of Iraq. " My blind finger is now spoken clearly as to the blind eye, but despite that, when it is said to be smuggling, the people who bring donkeys, mules, cans are accused, and, as in Roboski, almost have been invented to kill them. As Ziya Pasha said a hundred and thirty years ago, those who steal millions of coins of gold are the same. Those who steal millions, billions of dollars, honor, honor, honor, honor, honor, cans on mules are the decree of the perpetrators, smugglers, traitors and murderers. Dear friends, no matter how much we talk about this, it's no use if the AK PARTY friends aren't going to take this seriously. We're asking you to submit a research proposal yourself, come, where is this country's 14-15 billion dollars going, please explain to us. As for Syria, of course, for nearly two years, the Syrian issue has been repeatedly discussed here, over and over again, the Parliament has been given research motions, but every time, unfortunately, it has been rejected by the votes of the government. Dear friends, it's such an important matter, have we been able to listen to our Secretary of State, our Prime Minister, or our National Intelligence officers on any commission? If, as lawmakers, as representatives of an entire Turkey, we have no knowledge of these matters and they are not informing us in any way, how are some of us going to solve these issues, and beyond that, how are we going to understand what's going on? Now, Mr. Prime Minister is accusing CNN International, Al Jazeera is being charged. Well, if we can't get a proper briefing from our national intelligence, our Foreign Minister, our Prime Minister, our ambassadors on this matter, how are we going to find out, how are we going to find out? If you love God, do any of you know exactly what's going on in Syria right now, where Turkey is in all this, what organizations he's aiding and what he's targeting, what kind of Syria he's designing after the regime change in Syria, as a report, as information? Dear friends, just as Tarik Hashimi could not go to Baghdad, as Turkey's Iraqi policy had failed, as millions of dollars had gone to the air from a covered fund to the National Turkmen Party in Iraq, the new party, which was formed in the Bulgarian elections -- Rights and Freedoms -- has failed, as did the Syrian policy. Israel and Gaza, Palestinian policy is also bankrupt. We have said many times: You have put your foot in Israel, and good; you want to go to Gaza, and good. So, what do you want to go for? One, to speak to Israel, to deal with them, to destroy the blockade in Gaza, to comfort our brothers there. If that's what you're doing, fine. Two, Israel does not come to any solutions, it does not come to any path; despite that, we go to Gaza, and we are ready to pay the price, and we go into conflict. Well, you don't disagree or disagree, and also Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas says, "Don't come, we have serious problems of our own." So, what do you want to do? When we say these things, you immediately stamp them as prostrators, prostrators, but you don't talk about your policy. Is there a second policy in an entire Middle East against Israel and against Hezbollah? How in God's name did you manage that? How could you take on both Israel and Hezbollah? Dear friends, this research proposal needs to be said yes. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0135par0298	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Mustafa Ozturk is the last speaker of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0136par0302	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Republican People's Party's motion on fuel smuggling. I salute you all. I looked at the motive, I read it. In fact, when you look at it, there are many contradictions in the motive. At the beginning of the motive, there's a thought at the point where the smuggling is increasing by referring to Syrian policy, at the point where the borders are riddled with holes. We've been talking about Syrian politics in this House for a long time. Our Foreign Minister, the ministers of our government, the authorities have given us the necessary information. We, at the beginning of Syrian policy, maintain the same determination in the interests of our country, whatever our original position is, the peoples and our rights. Our security forces have taken all measures related to the borders, and they will continue to take them. Unfortunately, I have to explain something about that. Together, we see CHP's relations that would weaken our border security. In the last Reyhanlı incident, it is known that anyone who led the CHP delegation was sought out as the number one suspect in the Reyhan attack, and was arrested. Therefore, I bring to your attention the issue that CHP has brought up as part of fuel smuggling, which is probably enough for CHP. The increase in the need for oil and its use is evident that the loss of material resources in this regard will do great damage to the state, to the public. Besides, we can see it the same way in every smuggling operation. Our government, both legal and technical and administrative, will take all measures and continue to take them; it prevents losses. In fact, as you know, in 2005, in this Parliament, the Turkish National Assembly's research commission worked to determine the size of fuel trafficking in our country and to produce solutions, and a report was prepared. I looked at the report, a report that contains 200 or so pages. There's been a lot of different issues, suggestions. In this report, various proposals have been made to increase the activities of institutions such as the Energy Market Editorship, Finance Ministry, Customs Undersecretary, Maritime Undersecretary, Interior Ministry, Energy Ministry, to combat fuel smuggling. Again, following this investigation commission report, the prime minister's office issued sectors number 5525 in 2006, number 14321 in 2008, to coordinate the work of relevant institutions. Thus, a board of seven ministers has been formed. Under these, commissions were set up by officials from the relevant ministries. Actively, fuel smuggling is being monitored. In fact, when you look at the reason for the motion again, you see it there, in the reports of the relevant institutions, there have been operations related to trafficking, so many preventions, and so much oil has been obtained. So studies on this are also said in the motion, and they say the necessary measures have been taken. It's interesting, of course, that he came here. Again, another issue: Some arrangements have been made and a number of tasks have been given to public institutions in the 2012/19 Prime Minister's Generalship, which was published in the Official Gazette in 2012 and in the fight against fuel smuggling. I've just mentioned that a board of seven ministers has been formed, and it is persistently being pressed against. For example, there are some things that have arisen as a result of the work done on this subject, and I'd like to share them with you: Fuel imports and distribution have begun to be controlled using electronic systems. It's a very important event, from the beginning to the end of its station, all done by automation, and this automation system is seen and followed by the relevant regulatory board and the relevant ministries. The satellite-supported radar system project for ship traffic at the throats has been developed. Transport has been issued by the Ministry of Maritime and Communications, date 11/9/2007, and notification of the properties of the AIS KLAS-B device, published in Official Newspaper 2,6640. Again, KTV was intended to create a downloaded fuel information program, preventing abuses, especially by domestic fishing boats. The system has been created to monitor fuel amounts found in the ministry's fuel tanks and has increased control. The Energy Market Editing Agency has provided that the fuel dealerships are controlled by distributors that are connected to them. Again, the Ministry of Interior, Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology have increased the number of auditors, inspectors have been assigned to carry out inspections for the fuel market, and they have also been investigated, and these audits have been tightened. The fuel pumps are wired to pay recorders. A special branch for the fight against fuel smuggling has been established by the Finance Ministry, and special assignments have been made at the Police General Directorate, Coast Guard Command, Gendarme General Command, Customs and Trade Ministry to ensure specialisation in fuel. Again, necessary measures were taken at the point where the conditions for opening the fuel antrepos were rearranged, and the fuel antrepos operators had 24 hours of continuous recording, camera system installed in the halls, and when these recordings were requested, immediately informed and transmitted. Anti-fuel smuggling commissions have been established within the institutions in the fight, where the commissions have been made to report as many as three months each, sharing these reports with each other, and a serious co-ordination has been carried out. When you look at them, you actually get the results. How do you take it? Look, when we look at the Security Directorate statistics, there's this motion again, it's said -- it's in the proposal -- the smuggling rate in Hatay -- there's some counties in the 7th place. So this has nothing to do with Syrian policy. Again, 15 days ago, 20 people were taken into custody in an operation organised by the gendarmes in 7 cities based in Kırklarılı districts on May 10, 2013. The content of the motion includes these studies. I mean, thanks to them, they're contributing to that, and we've already had those contributions. Again, planning to fight against fuel smuggling is about strengthening the legal capacity. As you know, the law on this has been passed and the work continues, it has been decided that the application of fitness on 1/7/2013, published by 24/4/2013 and 288627. Tax regulations have also been determined to change in order to prevent abuses of some non-fuel oil products. The operation and control units' special invoice implementation of abuses has also been implemented. The amendments to the Oil Market Law, which was planned to increase its anti-fuel operation, were carried out by 11/4/2013 dates and Law 6455, which was published in 28615. Some of the important provisions under the mentioned law are placed below. There's a lot of work going on here that's been taken into account. Access to institutions is required to fight trafficking more effectively. In an effort to increase activity in anti-fuel trafficking activities, administrative fines are also expanded by increasing amounts. When we look here, all of these studies are in the commission report I just mentioned. While we have such a commission report, such a study has been done as an AK PARTY Group. These measures are already being taken, we have a board of seven ministers, we have commissions; the necessary automation, technical, administrative, legal studies have been carried out, laws have been passed, regulations have been changed, administrative structure has been strengthened. We don't think such a parliamentary inquiry motion is right, we don't think it's necessary, so the AK PARTY is the party that embraces the public. Our Prime Minister is also a public leader and a popular leader. That's the basis of the AK PARTY success. Therefore, what happened today -- in the last 20 days -- is not the peasants, the workers; these are extremes, people who provoke the development of Turkey. All of us, in fact, need to call it "stop" together for the growth of Turkey. This is an important event for Turkey's strengthening. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0137par0320	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0138par0321	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0137par0322	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0138par0323	Mr. Orator, Mr. CHP has relations that will undermine border security. That shame is enough for the CHP. I want word, sir, without teasing.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0137par0325	I will promise you, but in these criticisms, the other side will respond just as you do, so we need to get a little bit of a taste of them.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0138par0326	Sir, he said: "This shame is enough for CHP."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0139par0327	I said what you wrote in the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0137par0328	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0138par0332	Now, my dear friends, since Syrian events began, there is a structure that wants to connect CHP with the current structure of Syria, the administration there, and it is your government, the AKP's government. We're not the ones who are offended there, we're not the ones who are involved in the internal confusion, the struggle, the war; we're the ones who are trying to make a positive contribution to this event with an understanding of the sovereignty of Syria, the territorial integrity, the closure of the conflict, the unity, the integrity of the conflict there, but you're bringing it to us, Mr. Prime Minister, the speakers of the AKP. If there's any shame, you're the ones who are policyd on sectarian discrimination, linking us to it, making it a shame. It's about Syria... if it's about our MPs visiting there... if it's about what the Republican People's Party spokesman said about Syria, what we're defending there is that there's peace there, brotherhood there, peace, peace, there's no other purpose. I've just said in my speech that it is your power there that supports armed forces, especially armed elements related to Al Qaeda, in logistics, in terms of weapons, in terms of money. Shame is on you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit02spe0140par0339	Talks on the Republican People's Party proposal have been completed. Now, I'm going to submit the group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the group proposal is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0140par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We'll continue where we discussed the State Secret Code bill, which is ranked in the 2nd place, and the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture Forest and Village Commission and the Foreign Commission reports, where the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement is in line. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Charter and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place of the 4th place of the Law Bill on Payment and Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed by 473 rows of numbers. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of groups on the entire bill, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0141par0027	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group to draft Bill 473. I salute you all. Of course, we're having a very important time, an important process. There's a process of peace and resolution, of the country's future, of travel. In this intensity, we face an agenda that shocks us when we look at what the agenda of the House should have been: Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services, Electronic Money Corporations. Now, why is this being brought in? It is clear that the European Union Acquisitor's National Programme for Overcoming the European Union and the Council of Ministers of the European Union's Acquis, 31/12/2008, were the period of the crisis. Now, this is published in the Official Gazette, envisioning the draft of the Payment Systems Act as part of the free movement of capital and financial services chapters. Now, it's very interesting, and then, in the European Union acquisitor, there's the Committee for Payment Services 2007/64/EC. Then, the directive 2009/44/EC, along with the establishment of electronic money companies 2009/110/EC, the continuation of activities... Now, if you call every bill you bring a government acquisitor of the European Union on one hand, we'll tell you this: yesterday you took over the European Union. The Prime Minister said I don't know the European Union or the Parliament or the Council. On the other hand, you're bringing in a law like that. Actually, when we look at all of the priorities law, it's economic-based laws. The European Union's accession process has been bringing economic-related chapters of the European Union from the customs union since 1995. So, brother, why do you not feel the need to open the door of chapters 23 and chapters 24 in the process of peace and resolution? Look, judicial reform, neutrality, fundamental rights, torture, abuse, access to justice, freedom of expression, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, thought, freedom of conscience, women's rights, social rights, fighting discrimination, property, respect for minorities, respect for private life and personal rights, plus the right to justice, freedom, security in the 24th chapter. Believe me, if you had done this first, I would have made it very clear that you would have contributed to the process of peace and resolution, and that the Resistance of Travel Park would not have come to this point, and this would not have spread to the whole of Turkey's satire, which would have been suppressed by oppression, violence, torture, abuse. (x) 473 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Now, when we looked from here, we asked Mr. Babacan, in the debates of the Plan and Budget Commission: the government is looking for an interest lobby behind these events, while they're having these economic debates. What is this interest lobby, and will you explain it to us? They know who they are. He said, "That's the answer." We're looking, so if you're saying there is, we'd like to see it. On the one hand, yes, to the acquish of the European Union, on the other hand, there's no rejection. The interest lobby, on the other hand, who are we looking at? We can't find the answer, and we're asking you right. The third bridge tender, the canal project, Galataport, the harem port, are very important and the sum is at 300-400 billion. Besides, we're talking about building-enforcement projects, 48 thousand licenses to miners, the latest law on energy, oil -- you give it here -- and when we calculate all of this -- we're talking about a $500-600 billion cake. Now, you're going to look around, as the government, who's taking a tender with you, from TOKI, from urban transformation, from mine, from land, from oil, from the tender around you? When you ask this question, if you get to know the people around you and you know the people around you very well -- let me be very clear -- if you see that 70 per cent of the 18 banks that make the most money in Turkey are foreign capital, if you see that 28 holdings have the same kind of foreign capital, you actually do it with these tenders and businesses with these foreign capitals, as governments themselves. Why? All the resources and resources of these governments because they're winning, they're paying less taxes, these interests groups, they're a lobbyist. The government lives for the profits of this lobby, and the government's leaving depends on their interests, so it's very clear. As Istanbul moves towards becoming its financial centre, the government must consider its economic relations very well in its 11th year. Look, maybe it'll be weird to you -- look at the signatures that are very curious about the image of Turkey and today's full page ad in the newspapers. As a government, you need to learn a lesson from this. I looked at the joint ad... TKBB, the Union of Turkish Accession Banks, be careful. These are on your side. Right-o, with you, the confederacy of the government. TBB Turkey Bank Association. Woe to you! How many local banks are there in Turkey? For God's sake, tell me, how many local banks do you have? Isn't 90% foreign capital?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0142par0037	The interest lobby...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0141par0038	Now, who is this interest lobby? That's it, that's it, guys. There's something wrong here. Now, I'd like to take it from here, very seriously: yes, social media is a serious force, 10 million tweets are being tweeted now about an event. These bosses, these winners, they put out a newspaper ad. Believe me, I've been trying to tell you, and I've told you over and over again - Mr. Atalay is here in Şırnak, where I've been a deputy for two semesters. There's a generation that comes after us, it's a generation of 90, this generation is a generation that can't be contained... we've always told this generation in those squares, in those gas bombs, in the TOMAs, here and here. We're the only generation with a bridge, and if we go, there's gonna be a break zone, and we want you to know that. Now, I repeat the same warning to the government in terms of the 90 generations after the Travel Park actions. I want the government to know that travel events are spontaneous events, not by someone's direction. Of course, when such mass movements develop, someone will want to take control of him and give him a direction that he wants, but so far, the public has responded with common sense to those who wanted to take him in a different direction. Now, we have no concern but to understand these young people, to understand this rebellion, to understand this resistance. Friends, we sincerely declare that if you try to remove a terrorist organization from Beşiktaş's Marketing group, you will also remove the leader from the Taşıtı Recep. But be careful. Now, I would like to remind you again of the contracts you accepted in the European Union's acquisp. Don't throw gas bombs at houses, hotels, hospitals' emergency rooms, don't throw it, don't throw it for humanity, not because of what he said was the European Union criteria, not because there are decisions about it. Turkey wants to talk. If you call speech propaganda, if you call it illegal organization, if the lawyer, the press are inside, our MPs are tried for five years and arrested for more than four and a half years, if they're in prison for more than the required sentence -- that's terrifying -- Turkey is in a serious position. How will the public express themselves? Thought, freedom of organisation, the will of the nation, the Law of Political Parties, election laws, fair representation, free representation, the issue of self-representation are important steps to democratise Turkey in the second phase of the government's solution process. Let's be civil, let's be democratic, let's have a transparent political democratic struggle together, focus on the new constitution, focus on road cleaning. Believe me, equality, the key to freedom, the key to justice is here. Now, there's no use making Turkey nervous. I also call upon the government to make it very clear that you will never again experience the disaster of entering into a dream of nationalism. Don't make it unstable. Right-left, Alevi-Sunni, secular-antilaic, rich-fakir, Turkish-Kurdish, Roman, so we all need to make a little effort to keep the spirit of these divided spiritually. ▪ Let us put an end to the inner and external chorus. If the country is already 50-50 percent spiritually divided, it needs to be resolved. Mr. President shuts up before and after he's been very quiet, he says, "That's enough. Mr. President couldn't be effective in this process, he didn't contribute to the solution; if he had been more careful, if he had been involved in the process, perhaps other solutions could have been found instead of steeping rallies. Now, actions continue on one side. You're looking at the stopping man's action. I've just looked at the Internet, and the men standing against the man are in uniform, and they're standing in front of them. Then I looked at the tweets again, and the men who stood against the men who stood against them, and when they stood up to them, they went away. Now, for God's sake, is that something to take in? Now, we're going to see these environments that open up the door, the solidarity, the food, the medicine, the color, the sound, the compassion and the brotherhood, and we're going to see the violence of the police, and we're going to see the consequences of the conflicts. Look, the governor's office clearly says: "The 193 MOBESE, 117 panels, 231 illuminations have been damaged." The Prime Minister says: "The law has been destroyed 100 million liras." The citizen says: "We want justice to be done, and the family of Ethem Sarısuluk has been given to me in the morning." They say: "We want justice to be done, we want justice to be done." Now, can anyone have the right to look at this with a pair of glasses? And if it's the government, can it be like this? So in the 20th century of the coups, we came to the man who stood in the Zombie Square in the 21st century, for the whistling of Ape Moses, for the propaganda of communism. We need to get past this. Turkey needs to grow up, prove its maturity, political friends. Why? You will also take into account news from your own media channel and say: "Don't make the provocative news you've done. " You're going to attack the Vandals, you're going to attack the Socialist parties, you're going to attack the ESP, you're going to do the night operations, you're going to do the Ankara, you're going to do the Ankara, Adana, You're going to do about 150 addresses, Eskişehir, you're going to do the campaign against the Vandals. Don't do it, you're going to make a serious mistake. Those socialist parties you call the vandal, those revolutionaries, are the truth of this country. Even if he gets a little bit of votes, even if he gets a little bit of votes, you're going to take them as human beings, you're going to put them back into their minds, and you're going to protect their law. When you protect his law, you really stand for democracy. Now, I'd like to make a very clear, sincere request to the Prime Minister: I know what you're going through. By God, most of all, you've lured yourself away from those who led you. If you'd come to Taxi Travel Park instead of wasting so much time with this, maybe you'd understand yourself better, with a few deputies from each party. Look, similar events have been happening in Brazil for two days. Why? In 20 cities, they condemn police violence, protest. We have a similar case. There, they say the spending for the World Cup is high, and the students are protesting an excessive increase in tickets. What does Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff say? For his country's protests, he says that he is part of the democrat and is legitimate. Also, it suits young people. In Brazil, the President says this, and we say the opposite, the Prime Minister says, "They drank, they shit, they did something." Now, when we look at the difference, one is the example of democracy, one is the example of the police state and the totalitarian regime. Now, what I'm asking you to do is look at all the things that have come up about this trip. You'll see some very interesting things. Read Tariq Ali, read Slavoj Zizek, read the calls of the United Nations Commissioner of Human Rights. In all of this, stop the violence, make a dialogue for the solution, remove the barriers to freedom of thought. It's called. We make the same call as the Peace and Democracy Party. The solution requires a healthy end to this process, a channel to the solution process. This is Turkey's most important problem, peace, solution, democratization, and democracy, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0143par0056	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're discussing an important law that concerns the payment systems, the electronic money and banking sector, but as usual, there are no interested ministers. Mr. Eroglu is also a member of the Cabinet, but I'll start by explaining why Mr. Babacan isn't here in a moment. That's why I'm starting from the beginning by making this determination. Dear friends, there is a lot of talk about this law, but my friends have told me, but let me remind you of them. He talks about EU directives, he talks about the National Program. For all these reasons, we had to do this because the Central Bank had to remove it within the framework of this National Programme. So we see it in other laws, and we look at the reason, and it's this directive of the EU, which says, "This arrangement of the EU." I'm confused, what a diet, what a sauerkraut. On the one hand, you're angry with the European Union, we don't know the European Parliament. On the one hand, he's offering us a privileged partnership. You're standing, you're standing, you're standing, you're saying, "I swear to God, the European Union wants it, we're going to do it." Dear friends, let's do what Turkey's interests and country's interests require, if necessary, but let's not delude ourselves by the direction of Europe. On the one hand, we don't know each other. On the other, I'm thinking, let's not be humiliated by the way we write these things into our laws. Now, these warnings I'm going to make, my assessments at the head aren't political. Beyond being a former Central Banker, I submitted a notification of its importance to electronics and central banks in 2000, in 2000, which is not new. It is indeed late, it is true, there is no need for the European Union to say, it has to be arranged, and some work has to be done. So I'll start by saying, as an expert friend of yours, I'm going to give you some technical warning, and then I'm going to do some political evaluations. First of all, in the bill, when our friends brought it in, all the institutions were in one item. We sort of fixed it on the Commission with our proposals, but it seems to me that I'm not comfortable with the fact that the payment agencies are still together. I'll tell you in a minute why. Because there are a lot of differences between bill-paying agencies, electronic money companies, other corporations, our friends in terms of integrity defined one place, but then when we want to diversify, we can have trouble with secondary legislation. For that, we'll have motions here. And we put the bill payments on one thing, again. We didn't have the formula that day, but we told the government that it wasn't the Deputy Prime Minister, so I hope our friends worked. There are other collections besides regular bill payments, instalments, collections that can be made on behalf of others. We said they should be considered as a separate institution. Of course, the other important thing, dear friends, is that the 24th article of the law -- you know, the phone went away -- we talked about the PTT Foundation's bill here -- has been ruled out that PTT will not be subject to these regulations. They say it's set up, not too much processing, not too much expense. We, the National Movement Party, also said that when we talked about financing terrorism that day about black money: PTT (PTT) should not be involved in these matters. There's an oxymoron here: On the one hand, you've taken public banks into privatisation program, you can't do it, you can do it, you bring it, we don't think it's right, but in your philosophy, it's in your party program, in your government program. On the one hand, you're building a bank for PTT. There's a technicality to whether his name is a bank or not. I also told them about our sensitivity there, especially when the regulations were being drawn up -- thanks to friends, they added it -- and I said, "Let the opinion of MASAK be taken." Why? Because one of the ways of money laundering in the world is through the wire transfer system about these payments. They're losing him, cutting him to pieces. For him, we're sensitive about it. He's one of the most important challenges in this law. PTT will be able to make other transfers, not only why does he have a job, but also why does he have to do the payments. We have problems with this, and the secondary arrangements have to be done very tightly here, and some issues are basically dictated within the text of the law. Once again, I'd like to point out that we're sensitive about this. Another thing that stands out in the law is the need for personnel from the Banking Organization and Investigation Agency. Actually, as a matter of fact, there are two other vice presidents involved. We asked our friends, and they said, "Our work volume is increasing." So it goes from three to five, so if they say one, I'll understand, so they don't call it a vice president of these payments or other financial institutions. I look at the joke behind it, and it says, "Where there are representatives for the interested member if asked -- for example Ankara, Adana, Antalya, almost a member office can be opened." Now, I think, I say, "Have you even determined who you're going to appoint?" Why are you putting this guy's place of work in law enforcement already? I mean, the regulations, the audit agencies, they need it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0145par0069	It's obvious!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0070	Guys, we've already established too many institutions. We, the National Movement Party, have spoken in all our speeches, in our party statement and in our program, we only want the Supreme Council of Financial Markets. We don't think it's right to create new bureaucratic things in all this inflation, but that doesn't sound too innocent to us. So if there's any need for that, we need our friends to tell us what it's about. And we've got one, and I'm seeing if two can't be managed until yesterday. Because we've already got presidents here, and we've got friends working on it. That must have been something else that caught our attention. So these issues, the subject of electronic money, payment systems, especially in the United Nations Convention on the Protection of Terrorism, and in the European Union regulations that we approve of, have a very tight commitment that we will comply with it, and in this law, it is useful to write things a little bit more clearly. I think it's useful to work on secondary arrangements to get them out sooner. Now, here we come, to the interest lobby, which is on the agenda of all of you. You know, we're talking about the Central Bank and the payment system, the banking system. So, all the representatives -- except for Mr. Vice Prime Minister -- are here. My dear colleagues, our fellow bureaucrats from the Central Bank, the BDK, are also here. I find the Prime Minister's statements very compelling in this matter, dear friends. Why would you say that? Now, I've introduced you in my speech on the budget, on the general, and I think that's why the Deputy Prime Minister isn't here. Because I asked him the same questions on the Commission, and he left without answering. Since I've asked him about us, I can ask him here as well. I wrote it on the Ethics Web site on October 4, 2012. I mean, I wrote in my article when the plan was announced. What did I write about a few days later? Here in the Morning newspaper, where the Prime Minister is the head of the family newspaper, on that date, when does it come out? September 23rd. Now, look, I brought you the interest lobby to answer the question of where, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I don't think you have it. Look, what does it say in the morning paper: 'Do it wrong, make the people pay. Can you see the pictures?' We have the president of the Central Bank, Mr. Babacan and Mr. Lightning. Look, it's not the wrong paper, but I showed it to you in the budget, if you remember. Look, I'm saying that the wrong rule is to make the people pay.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0145par0072	Show it to the Minister!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0073	The Minister doesn't care, he doesn't. He's on the gas station, not the brakeman, that's what I'm gonna say. We don't write, so the daily Sabah, who regularly supports the AKP government, reported on September 23, 2012, the financial page, they're exactly like this. Now...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0146par0075	This is the interest lobby?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0076	I will, Mr. President. Let me read the gold: look, I don't say it, but the Morning News says it -- the budget-opening economic management, car, fuel, housing, and alcohol increased taxes. Eight and a half billion in revenues and half of the expected precautionary package will go to interest. Tax increases will increase inflation and prevent interest reductions. Now, dear friends, there's something here that says: "Inflation has increased, increase interest." Ali Babacan, Erdem Başçıcı and Mehmet Şekeksim were given a raise as a result of the wrong policies, and Turkey is bringing Turkey into another spiral. Excessive costs will be reflected in inflation, especially in the effects of fuel hikes. This will prevent the expected interest reduction in many areas from treasury tenders to consumer loans in the coming days. The Central Bank will also find it difficult to reduce interest due to inflation. Now, my dear friends, well, you're looking for yourself, so let me read to you here, if you like, the following sentence: more than half of the 8.5 billion that the economic administration has taken out of its pocket by tax increases will go to increased interest payments due to the interest of the Central Bank. So one percent of society and a portion of the overpaid interest by foreign investors will be billed to all citizens with increased indirect taxes. Where is the interest lobby? According to the headline of the morning paper, he was here. So, what happened a week later? The Midterm Program was announced on October 9th, folks. October 10th, the same newspaper: he does not give up on the Fren. It is a picture of Mr. Babacan on the half page. I keep these, and I introduced them to you in the budget earlier in December. We can have friends we don't have, and I can introduce them again. Now, I return to you from here, dear friends: then, the Prime Minister is looking for an interest lobby somewhere. I say: Is the interest lobby in? This is the title of the article published in the Ethics again two days ago -- which you're looking for outside -- you're showing yourself here. He didn't drop the central bank again. You say, "We're talking about our stomachs." I don't really understand what happened here. In his own speech -- this is in my writing, I can distribute the detail, the photocopy to you -- but here, where he made his statement about the interest lobby -- Mr. President mentioned it in his group speech, he confessed himself -- he says, "When they came across us -- Mr. Prime Minister's word, look, we were five times richer in your time. I read it again: When they came to us, we became five times richer in your time." Minister, in your day we were five times as rich. They told the Prime Minister. When was that? So after 2002, they admitted to being five times richer. Now, friends, then, who gave this interest lobby a machete? So, in this case, Mr. Prime Minister has admitted to the interest lobby he's been talking about for ten years that he's been involved and that he's made them rich?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0147par0083	The opposition has macheted it!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0084	It says again: "Faiz lobby, pull yourself together." The interest lobby, you've exploited the sweat of my people for years, and you won't be able to exploit it anymore. We've been very patient. Mr. Prime Minister, if you know anything, tell me and do it. You're the Prime Minister, capable of everything, and you can get everyone to treat you the way they don't deserve. If you know and you don't do what you have to do, you're committing a crime. Loud and clear. If someone is manipulating, dear friends, the law is clear, if someone is doing something against the law, against the law, instead of threatening, it is the duty of the concerned institutions and the Prime Minister as head of the government. If he's not, if he's slacking off, he's neglecting his mission. I can't figure it out, so the bank that built this lobby is threatening to, like, what-what-what-what-what-what-what-what-what. If there is, do something here. Let's not be like this: when you criticize and criticize the 57th government, and then you come to banks, whichever interest lobby you're deleting from today's interest lobby, which you call an interest lobby, which you call an interest lobby, which is what, when your job is good -- the men make five times the amount -- there's a good, when you see something at the end, there's an interest lobby.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0147par0085	They made banks rob people, and now they're complaining.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0086	There really is a weirdo here about this. Politically, I don't understand it, but technically, I'm explaining it to you. If there is a law, Mr. Prime Minister also says that while threatening banks, He says: "Citizens, ignore them, go to public banks." I'm laughing now. On the one hand, there are public banks in what you call interest lobby. Dear friends, look at the list, eight of the top 10 tax-paying companies are banks, and half of them are public banks. I don't know what you're complaining about. Look at the figures, the first 10 companies have eight banks and public banks in it. Now, how does that work? Who's the interest lobby, not who, I'm starting to get confused. They've also been found guilty. You know, the Competitiveness Agency, you know, has determined that these citizens are taking interest in wages and commissions, in violation of competition, by agreeing to a loan from their book, from the poor's account, through an excessive deal. A 140 million-something bank, 90 million, 80 million banks, 40 million other banks. I'm talking about public banks, other banks, all of them. So, why is the Competition Society writing this ruling now? Even if the entire constitution were to be changed, the grounds would be written by now. There's no collection yet. I guess they cut the ticket so the citizens could get gas, and they found this too much. In total, 1.1, 1.2 -- my friends know better -- so they came and they're still waiting for those fines to be collected. They've got these public banks in them, and they've got a deal. That's what the Competitiveness Agency says, you know. So, I say again from here, Mr. Prime Minister, where is the interest lobby? Who? If you know anything, please explain it to the prosecutors, otherwise we're pressing charges of negligence.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0148par0088	Yeah, they went after Hero Cloud, no interest lobby.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0089	He needs to question them.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0148par0090	You followed the mind of a madman, I swear to God!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0144par0091	In fact, if there are manipulators, as we say just now, we need to do what we need to do here without being sloppy, otherwise...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0148par0092	So if it wasn't for him, you wouldn't have found anything, an excuse.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0149par0093	One night's interest was 7,500.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0148par0094	Yeah, it's called a mighty cloud.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0150par0095	Now, my friends, Mr. Secretary, the overnight interest has arrived. You investigated him. Before -- perhaps you weren't there, Mr. Secretary -- when you arrived, Mr. Salih Kapusuz, who was chaired by Mr. Salih Kapuz, all financial transactions, Central Bank transactions, banking, were investigated by a commission, and if there was anything you needed to send to the D.A.'s office. While you were in charge of the AKP government, this commission worked, there were 1,100-plus pages of report. Nothing was found in this. Ha, what did they find: these banks have received this much foreign currency. They said that the bank, which was in the 1st place there, in the period of the crisis when it received over 1 billion foreign currency -- as I said -- was the first act of the AKP government -- they were in power in November, by the writing of the Ministry of Finance, and by Mr. Unakitan, they erased the tax of what he called the foreign, the bank lobby, the people he called the "the lobby," the people he called outside, the people he called the AKP lobby. Well, now that you've arrived, if you still can't ask for his account in ten years, then there seems to be a problem, Mr. Secretary. As you're not asking, you're lowering a tax of 3 billion. There's no need to look for it out there. In the interest lobby of the AKP, in itself, a number of subsidiary capitals that he created, but now when the political accounts went wrong, we started looking for criminals. I asked the Minister. Now, Mr. Eroglu didn't deal with this, and Mr. Babacan did, I suppose, because he didn't come here because we've asked him before, and we've asked those questions at the commission. For him, I think the interest lobby should be searched inside, not outside. If this has already gone up... of course, there's a technicality, I can't explain it because we don't have time here. I mean, is the rise in interest good for the earlier areas, or is it good for the cash ones now? Indeed, when it rises, are they for the harm of the fields in the past, they are separate matters. In fact, when you have interest in your hands, when interest goes up, it's against whoever's holding bonds or bonds because the price goes down. There's a lot of confusion for him. That's why I think it's political. I publicly invite the Prime Minister to explain who the interest lobby is and to do what's necessary.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0151par0098	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On top of the bill, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0152par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Bill on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. My respects to all of you. My dear friends, technology is taking up more and more space in our lives. Technology affects us as individuals and affects the firms as well as the public, of course. All of us, from individuals to public, must adapt to technology. Of course, in this process, there are significant developments in technology regarding payment systems and money. In this regard, we also see significant developments in these payment systems, such as electronic money, in the market. In this regard, technology is rapidly evolving, changing. Of course, the legal dimension of the matter is constantly needed to develop, and the law is trying to keep up with technology. Of course, the development of technology in this field also brings what we call financialization. I'll get to that in a minute. Financing comes as a problem in developing countries, especially in developing countries like us. Turkey is also a developing country on new and different payment systems, in terms of shopping systems. Turkey also needs an arrangement. So far, according to our bureaucrat friends, there's been no problem with that, not a major problem, at least, but in the coming days, since the issue is rapidly improving, there may be a problem with the change. Before that, we had to take precautions, make an adjustment. These arrangements are being made. Regarding this issue, previous speakers have also noted that the European Union has directives, international institutions, and an international law is slowly becoming involved in this issue. For him, Turkey also needed to take steps on the matter. That's how it was made. In particular, the Central Bank and the BDK officials came to us as an arrangement draft. I think it's on time. So we supported it, we supported it in the Plan Budget Commission. We were having second thoughts about some things as the Republican People's Party Group. For example, we also thought that some of the issues set up as the law could be edited with regulations or with different secondary, secondary legislation -- and then we needed a flexibility for the issue -- would give more space to bureaucracy, appliances, but the bureaucracy convinced us of that. As I've just stated, it's a matter of considerable interest in financing. Thus, in the world and in Turkey, it also concerns the issue of financialisation in developing countries. I'd like to make a definition of finance: technological developments, jobs, profits, profits, and so on, of course, affect the financial system. And all of this movement in the economy and all of the transactions in the economy, all of it -- all of it -- and all of it -- and all of it -- and it's financial actors, it's the growing role of the financial markets, it's financial. So, as the role of the actors, the financial movement and the people involved in financing, financing in the economy increases, so does the economy. And that has its downsides for developing countries over time -- just like I said. This is a very important issue, and we didn't mention it in the Commission for him. I'd especially like to share this with you. The role of financialisation in international and national transactions means increasing financialisation within the economy, which in fact means that developing countries lend money to developed countries, money reserves. It's actually the loss of developing countries. It means developing countries suffer from it. Turkey has the same situation, I'm afraid. It makes poor countries sort of finance rich countries, which, of course, is part of the job. My dear friends, now that I look at it, the ruling group probably can't listen much to the evening fatigue.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0153par0112	It's not evening fatigue, it's power fatigue, it's power.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0152par0113	In a meeting where such an important matter is being discussed, perhaps I can draw their attention to an incident in the past. Now, in the past -- I think it happened during the Athens era -- Demosthenes, there's a very important issue being said -- and this scholar -- he started talking to the stand at that time, and he started talking like me, and he thought it was important, and he thought it was important, but no one listens to what he's saying, and everybody's taking care of their own business, or talking like this. He looked, and there's no point in him telling you the important thing. He said, "Let me tell you a story." A man had to go to the ground on a summer day, and he went -- excuse me -- rented a donkey. And the owner of the donkey went that way, and they went together -- the heat, the sun -- they were tired after a while, and they said, "Let's rest for a while." When the donkey's owner wanted to rest under the shadow of the donkey, he who hired the donkey said: "It is my right to dwell in the shade. How is it your right? I'm the owner of this donkey, so I'll sit in his shadow. No, I rented it, so it's my right to sit in his shadow. Sir, you rented the donkey, you didn't rent the shadow. Wait, where are you going, what happened to the shadow, the donkey's shadow, who was right about that? Let go, I've said such important things, you didn't listen, you didn't wonder, are you curious about the donkey's shadow? Now, I'm trying to tell you something as important as this, but no one's listening, but let's just keep talking about it, maybe it'll benefit those of us who are studying our precious nation or the minutes later. As I just told you, there's an increase in currency reserves. As a result of financialisation, so that money movements can be done much faster, and with technology's help, economic transactions are also increasing, but financial transactions are increasing much more. This is, as I just said, the loss of developing countries. For example, developing countries are forced to keep more reserves this way. They say: "You're getting loans constantly, you need to keep more reserves. And like Turkey today, developing countries like Brazil have a lot more reserves than they did 20 years ago. We're also, in a very significant amount, right now, I think we're keeping $127.5 billion of reserves, but that reserve has a cost. For example, about 2006, the cost of these reserves was calculated by an economist, keeping 1 percent of GDP. It's a very important cost. There's a cost of keeping a 1% reserve. While we boast about keeping reserves, for example, our reservations have grown. When you say that it costs money because it has a price, you borrow money, you keep a reserve like that. After all, it's foreign money, heavily dollars. It's costing you, and it's working for you, it's causing you trouble, but countries like us, unfortunately, are bragging about it. My dear friends, as we discussed this bill in the Plan and Budget Commission, the Prime Minister, as we are now, had also made a complaint against the interest lobby in particular. This is a very important matter. So we came to the Commission at that time, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Babacan, and we asked him, "What is this interest lobby?" My friends just mentioned it. Mr. Babacan acted as a responsible person, gave a political response, said he would handle both sides, as well as the Prime Minister, but he would not do too much damage to the markets -- I really appreciate it. He said: "They know themselves. " So he answered in the middle. This showed a sense of responsibility, but the Prime Minister, to tell you the truth, has not shown the same responsibility, the same responsible behavior. If there's a rise in interest today, there's a rise in interest, close to 1.5 points since these events -- unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister has a very important share in this, and he has a responsibility, and that's manipulation on the one hand. If someone else had said that, it would have to be brought to trial today, the subject would have to testify in charge of the trial. In fact, the Prime Minister even said that after accusing the interest lobby, the Faiz lobby made a great deal of effort at this time. I say we kick his ass in the interest lobby. We have things to do for him. Now it's time as a nation to teach them a lesson. The government has banks, you take advantage of them. Don't make me name names, you know them. I'm saying the government has banks, you know what I mean. So it says, "Take your money away from private banks, deposit it in government banks." Now, that was a very dangerous promise, very dangerous, as you would appreciate. In this particular, I warn my fellow ruling lawmakers, the ministers, that the Prime Minister must be warned about this, that he is saying very dangerous things, that he is going to stir up markets, that he is going to be in trouble, and that he should avoid them. Now, when he said these words, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Babacan later said, "Let them not throw stones at others in towers made of glass, because he is sitting in glass towers, he can always be broken." I understand that this is not just for banks, this is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey who lives in a glass house, but as a saying to him, I take it, and I find it, it's a fact that he has to take the word, but he has to take it, that he has to know that he's sitting in a glass tower, that he has to mix the markets, that he needs to get the economy, that he needs to do it in the future act. Now, my dear friends, while we're at it, let me tell you, this is the interest lobby, which we all know means banks, which means financial institutions. In Turkey, 50 per cent of banks are in the hands of foreigners. There are 49 banks, 24 of which have a share of foreigners, 37 of which have a foreign share, at least 50 percent of which are controlled by foreigners. 70 per cent of the stock market is in the hands of foreigners, 70 per cent of the stock market, and insurance is an important sector of finance -- and 90 per cent is in the control of foreigners. It's such a sensitive area, look, it's been in the hands of strangers from stock markets to insurance, banking, and this development has been in the last decade, over eleven years. Last week, the first quarter growth was declared 3%. In growth, look, three percent of the targets have not been achieved, but do you know what the industry is that has the most important share in this growth? The financial sector is the financial sector with 6.5 per cent. It's the financial sector, the investors, they've made profits again. Mr. Günal just told me. At the moment, eight of the most profitable institutions of our companies, which have already reported about 2012, are banks, and eight out of ten banks. We've been building a financial economy for 11 years, building a financial economy for international global markets, no production here. We've forgotten production, neglected production, we've put aside the cost-effective money we've been taking, we've worked in the financial sector, and then we're complaining about the interest lobby. This is a great mistake, a great affliction. In fact, especially the ruling MPs and ministers should really warn the Prime Minister about this, and I mean it sincerely. This is a great tribulation for Turkey. If the Prime Minister doesn't want to complain about the interest lobby, the financiers, he shouldn't brag about the increase in currency reserves. The increase in exchange reserves means that Turkish money will flow to others, those who have reserve money. Like I said, it costs at least 1 percent for Turkey, and it costs a lot. On the other hand, strangers in banks should know that their share in insurance should be cut down, that the foreign market needs to know that their share of the stock market is falling, that they have to put weight on the production economy, and that they have to rely on real sectors, not on finance. As I just said, Mr. Prime Minister has a great share in the considerable costs in this area. He said the capital has no color. But now he's talking about the chaos of capital -- like I said -- it has as much to do with it as they have to do with it. And then there's the thing, my dear friends: here, again, about a month ago, I gave a speech, even four speeches on the same day, and again we were discussing a bill from the Plan and Budget Commission. We realized at the time that the practice of a law we passed last year was very different. We allowed the creation of assets rental companies a year ago, and there was a change in their practices. It was then discovered that the rental certificates of assets companies, such as securities, non-interest certificates, lease certificates, were actually interest-free. In fact, the asset rental company wasn't built. In fact, the board or partner of the asset rental company, the general manager, didn't have a single staff, didn't have any real estate on it. So we, as a state, have sold $1.5 billion abroad, and $3 billion in Turkey, which is about $6 billion, we've sold it to hundreds of thousands of people, and it's interest-free. Is that even possible? For example, if this were another time of power, you'd have a right to raise hell. As a state, you must be a trust and reputation institution for once. How do you say "free" and throw in an interest certificate? You say, "You're undermining the law." You don't say, "We're setting up anonymity rental company." You don't say, "You're exploiting people who receive non-interest certificates according to your faith." You say, "You're exploiting people who get non-interest certificates." You'd be right. Unfortunately, we've done that, dear friends. Unfortunately, we did it as a Republic of Turkey. And then there's this part of it. Given all this, the Prime Minister has no right to complain about the interest lobby, the financiers. Yeah, I know, the economy's stuck, we've got problems. We've brought government guarantees for two years, especially to get loans, to get loans for many of our projects. In fact, we brought the Treasury guarantee to the state guarantee, along with the other instruments. It's a huge cost, we've taken a huge risk, and we're doing all this to get credit for our projects. It's now increased by 1.5 points since these events began, but, as I said, at least 51 percent of those costs have been raised because of what the Prime Minister said. Do you know what the number we put in the budget this year is, the number of interest? 53 billion liras. It was like that last year, before that. Every year for 11 years, we've been putting up numbers like 50 billion, 51, 53, 48. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0154par0124	Mr. Kuyoglu, thank you. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. In the name of his subjects, Engin Ozkoch, Congresswoman of Sakarya. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0129	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I've really been sitting and listening to everything we've been talking about since this morning at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. You have made promises as a government. To discuss the budget, to discuss the law here -- I was just in the Plan and Budget Commission -- to discuss the legislation of the bag. I don't like any of this as a congressman. Why? He only has one motive. In this country, you have not kept any of your promises as Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey and as the government.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0156par0131	Which one?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0132	One: you said democracy, we will provide freedom in democracy. You said, you opened fire on young people.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0156par0133	Who opened it?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0134	Give you an example? And when my own counsel came unto me in Rediay, and he raised his hand unto my counselor, saying, Thou didst smite his hand with three rubber bullets, and his hand was broken.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0156par0135	He was throwing rocks?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0136	You crippled the hand of a young man who graduated from Middle East Technical University, his hands tied to wires.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0156par0137	He must have thrown a rock!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0138	You took out the eye of a young child of a family I knew, and you said: "We'll make the police stronger, we'll make the police stronger...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0156par0139	To protect those kids.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0140	I'm not... We're going to take out more young people's eyes, we're going to kill more people, we're going to cripple more people. You've crippled 7,000 people, you've killed six people, you've put dozens of people in prison, you've threatened journalists. Now I ask you: I raised a plant because a mother was directly targeted by the Prime Minister, and the prime minister of this country called out to the country. An artist of this country, a son raised by this country, has been targeting a son of this country for days now, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. My fellow congressmen, let's say you build a huge artillery barracks there.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0157par0143	We don't have that problem.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0144	Can you really build a barracks in a place where seven people are killed, people are blinded, thousands of people are crippled, and you're proud of it?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0158par0145	There's people out there.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0146	Will that cheer you up? So we are honored. Can you say? The Prime Minister of a country I'm proud of. Will he be able to say that? Now, Mr. Prime Minister says: I don't know the European Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister says... until yesterday they support us. Can you imagine, when you were like, "We're going to have zero problems with our neighbors." You said, "We're going to have zero problems."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0159par0148	Right.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0149	Now, you are not friends with Syria.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0159par0150	We're friends.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0151	You are not friends with Iraq.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0159par0152	We're friends.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0153	You are not friends with Egypt. You know why? You watched millions of Muslims die there. You've watched thousands of people be slaughtered. In Iraq alone, 1.5 million Muslims died.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0159par0154	Who killed him?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0155	He killed the United States, and you wished him well. Your Prime Minister, your President, said: "Good luck to the United States of America."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0160par0156	He's your prime minister.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0157	No, no, no. Your Prime Minister, who says, "You are a child murderer." Your Prime Minister, who says, "Look, I'm with the President of the United States, on the phone, I'm with him, now you talk to him."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0161par0158	He made me kneel.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0159	...forgetting to forget the people who died, and then, sir, I'll talk to him and then I'll be friends with him.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0162par0160	Were you there?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0161	...you and his head of intelligence are doing the math now. What happened to our dead people? What happened to Gaza?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0163par0162	We're taking care of them.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0163	What happened to your one minute? What happened to their Muslim blood? What happened to the one that hit you in the heart? Nothing, really, I'm asking you, doesn't your conscience hurt? Doesn't it hurt at all?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0164par0164	Pains of conscience.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0165	Can't stand it? Why are you running away? Sit down, listen.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0165par0166	I'm listening, you're always lying.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0155par0167	There's nowhere in this country you can run, there's nowhere you can go, there's nowhere you can go, there's nowhere you can go, there's nowhere you can run. Look, you said here in Libya, we don't shed the blood of our own brothers. Twenty days later, you sent NATO planes from İzmir to kill your Muslim brothers without calling them children. And you know what you did after that? Good luck with your president, your Prime Minister, the American soldiers. Now, really, how do you look at your Muslim brothers? What are you doing now? Friends, there was a meeting in Diyarbakır. It just happened. Now you're covering it up. They're calling you from there, the people you've taken the peace process to, they say, remember, the Prime Minister -- you've always got the Republican People's Party in your mouth -- with Mr. Ocalan of the People's Party. There they call out, saying, "What happened when you were going to release Abdulah Ocalan?"
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0166par0170	Who says that?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0167par0171	Say one word about the law.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0168par0172	I thought you weren't negotiating.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0169par0173	After all, what happened to the negotiation process?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0170par0174	Who said that?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0169par0175	The people in Diyarbakir are the negotiators. Your Karayalan, the one you run the process with, says: "We are withdrawing our troops. You have tied the hands of the Turkish Armed Forces."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0170par0176	Keep talking like that. The longer you keep talking like that, the better it'll be to understand why that opposition boos you. Why did those opposing young people boo you, it'll be better understood.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0169par0177	We're attracting our troops. Now, if you do not release Abdullah Ocalan, if you do not fulfill your promises to us, we will attack you more strongly. Do you have any answers?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0170par0178	You go on with your politics, you go on with your style. Instead of understanding why the public opposition is leaving you, keep talking like this.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0169par0179	Now, I'm telling you one thing against all of this: what young people do and what they say is little for you. Fear the people who stand, fear the young, but fear your own consciences, which you have blacked out most of all.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0171par0181	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. The second speaker on behalf of his subjects is Mr. İzmir MP İlknur Denizli. Here you go, Mr. Denizli.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0172par0185	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the entire Legislature of 473 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, some five and a half years have passed since the beginning of the global financial crisis, but stability in the world's economy remains unresolved. There is a risk that an unexpected turbulence will undermine relatively weak economies and that it will negatively affect countries trying to avoid the effects of the crisis. In advanced economies, weak growth and high unemployment still have its effect. It is not difficult to predict how these problems can affect the global outlook, given the relative importance of these countries within the world economy. In the United States, which makes up about 20 per cent of the world's economy, although it has improved, growth is still under the scope of potential. Again, in the eurozone, which comprises 19 per cent of the world's economy, some serious problems are still emerging from the crisis. Problems in developed countries also affect developing countries in a negative way with the channel of trade, financing, expectations because the processes that trigger and then feed economic crises are economic and psychological situations of commercial actors. Generally accepted comfort and a sense of hope for the future remain unrelenting. There's a bright, alive and fit country in this vague and somewhat negative picture of the world's economy; Turkey. Turkey's economy was ranked among the world's fastest growing, developing countries in 2010, with a 10.2 per cent growth rate in the first half of 2011. Many countries have yet to reach the number of non-offensive domestic product before the crisis, while Turkey's economy has exceeded its pre-crisis level by 9% at fixed prices by the end of June 2011. The most important sources of this growth have been private consumption and fixed capital investments. What is the main factor in this success? If you ask, these are steps taken in the name of stability, the work of a staff that successfully manages in terms of financial discipline and psychological resistance. The most important and most flattering results of our uncompromising budget discipline have, of course, come from interest costs. In interest costs, the total budget costs in 2002 are 44.7 per cent, almost half of our total budget. This rate was 14.3% in 2012, and its 2013 target was 13 percent. Again, the share for social expenses is 15 per cent in 2012 and 28 per cent in the 2013 budget. What would happen if ten and a half years of economic management had done nothing about these interest rates and the rate in 2002 had been preserved? That's exactly $642 billion. That's 642 quadrillion liras in the old expression of our currency value. Mr. President, the most important force behind this success is to read the spirit of time well and correctly. On the one hand, open to change is the fact that the sides of change are run through certain universal rules and are principled with the right policy. In modern times, there's an area that never stops, never rests, and that's technology. It's moving very fast, taking very long steps, surrounding our lives, making room for itself, expanding its place, entering amongst our indispensables. If we have to name our age, that name will surely be through technology and communication. We have a lot of traditional methods that we know, or we have values that come to us as a new form, or we don't want to show up again. There will be new methods and practices in the present and the future among the common and familiar payment systems. What we're trying to do with this law is to adjust the legal system to the changing conditions, to prepare our legal legislation for the foreseeable developments in the future. The change in technology affects every aspect of life. It also affects politics, forces our laws. Politics has a fundamental axis and a definition: politics is an art of predicting; it's the art of predicting change, development, problems, predictability, and making necessary arrangements. The Payment Systems Bill that we're talking about today is also designed with that kind of motivation. The basic and summary aim of the bill is to create a legal infrastructure that will grasp the increasingly important and disposable non-inflicted payment system in economic life. As is expected, it is urgent for us to establish a whole legal framework in accordance with international legislation, especially with the European Union's acquisitor, regarding payment services and electronic money. One of the main goals to be achieved by the bill is the establishment of a competitive environment in the area of payment services. In this way, non-bank agencies will also be allowed to operate in the area of payment services, boosting the quality of service in this sector and lowering costs. This will undoubtedly increase the intensity of access to these services. In terms of payment methods, there are payment activities in our country that are carried out without a permit or audit. Some of these are ways of paying for technological improvements that need to be taken under the rule. The creation of legal legislation on these matters is crucial to the maintenance of the economic security of our citizens and a standard of quality for the sector. Members of parliament, some of the concepts of payment systems that often come up with the bill: inter-bank funding transfer, inter-client fund transfer, security transfer, check exchange, security exchange, bank card exchange, and credit card exchange. There are other institutions and other regulations involved in all of this, so there's a mess, and there's a potential for confusion in the application. In the event of the bill's legalisation, there will be a dissolution of legislation in the area of payment systems, and the common characteristics of all payment and security agreement systems will be regulated under one roof. In this regard, some foreign electronic money companies are still operating in our country, in a way, without permission. On the other hand, some domestic organisations operating in the area of payments are not subject to open legislation. Eliminating these and similar gray areas and establishing a clear framework of legislation is one of the main goals of the bill. In preparation of the bill, lessons from the latest financial crisis have also been decisive because the intensity and quality of payment systems and methods increase the flexibility and strength of economies in the face of crisis. Although there has not been a problem directly due to financial market infrastructure in the recent financial crisis, active financial market infrastructure will clearly contribute substantially to the smooth functioning of markets in times of crisis. As part of the bill, the payment and the securities are the memorandum system, the payment providers and the PTT (PTT). Separate arrangements have been made regarding all of them; PTT will be able to continue its activities without special permission, and banks are also licensed. Dear friends, I give you a general assessment of the payment systems bill, and in the event of law enforcement, it will bring consumer security and financial stability and high quality of service to our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0173par0202	Thank you, Mr. Denizli. Now, according to the Civil Code 81 and 91, we have friends entering the system, we're going to do a QA. Mr. Shandır is ranked 1st. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0174par0206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, there's been a debate recently by Mr. Prime Minister about the fiscal lobby, and here it is, an interest lobby, which is said to have increased their income or wealth five times as high in ten years. We'd like to know who these are. Are you going to explain? That's my first question. Second: The Competition Agency recently issued a really large fine for banks. When are you going to collect these? Did you collect it? Another thing: how much of the capital properties of banks in Turkey have been acquired by foreigners and how much has the annual profit transfer reached? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer these questions. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0175par0212	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0176par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question about the Turkish Airlines strike because you had an explanation when the strike started. We can't accept this strike. Yesterday, Turkish Airlines workers came to parliament, talked to all the groups, tried to explain why they had to go on strike. Now, when we look at your statement, you're saying that Turkish Airlines is doing a very important service -- whether it's tourism, national security, economics -- don't you think it's important to evaluate from here: I mean, isn't the work of the workers who produce this service important? I see why they had to go on strike, they're accused of being judged. Which I'm trying to dig deeper into. They say their earned rights were eliminated by this collective contract in the 23rd term, which is a fact. Do you plan to achieve a compromise, a business peace, domestic peace in Turkish Airlines? Do you have anything to contribute to that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0177par0219	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0178par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Taner Yildiz, Minister of Energy, is also here, but Minister of Finance Mr. Simsek can answer on behalf of the government. In the province of Tekirdağ last week, zoning plans were changed by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and three thermal plants were decided to be built in Tekirdağ province. They were ordered to build a coaled thermal plant in the district of Marmara Ereğlisi and Malkara, and a natural gas circuit plant in Şarköy district. Local governments were never asked, people in that area were not asked, people who lived in the region were not given will, and decisions were made at this point. I'd like to warn your government about that, especially considering the environmental sensitivity that has begun with the recent Travel Park events, the government should take the initiative of the people of the region and consult their will as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0179par0225	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0180par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a few questions. One is known to buy and observe that some private schools, especially in Istanbul, -- even in Turkey -- buy a lot of schools, even small ones. Are these schools being audited to comply with the conditions of competition? It's very important because there are serious purchases, there seems to be a monopoly. Also, there is a parcel in Maltepe. It's 10 acres, a small parcel, but to privatize it -- it's a parcel of the State Railroad -- it's a private building. Is it right for the government to deal with such small parcels of business? I mean, that's the kind of thing you do with the Prime Minister's signatures and the five ministers' signatures. I mean, does it have a great deal to do with the development of the country? I want to know if it's done by you. And then I have a dollar. It's last year's edition, but it's still available, so it's being made by citizens. On one side, it says "Turkish Lira," and on the other is the name of an event when it should be a picture of Ataturk. Is that legal, so it's legal to have that kind of money in circulation? And then there's the rumors that there are some mistakes in some $100 bills. I want to know if this is real. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0181par0233	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Secretary, have them come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0182par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I'll start with the questions of Mr. Shandir. I'll try to answer the questions he asks on specific issues first, and then I'll share with you my views on the general issues. The control share of foreigners in the banking sector was 17.8 per cent as of April 2013, so we're talking about the total banking sector of banks controlled by foreigners. Profit distribution has been restricted by the BDDK since 2008. In fact, it's a very important measure taken during the crisis. If you ask, "Why?," you know, this banking crisis -- the main problem in the global crisis -- was the problems in the financial sector at first -- the problems in the banking sector. Now, since we've seen this... the banking sector in Turkey is relatively strong, very strong. As a matter of fact, if you remember, the banks didn't go down, and, if I remember correctly, the average capital yield was very high in 2007-2011 or 2012, about 20%, so the banking sector was solid in Turkey. Our concern is that if we allow this profit distribution, it might be possible to transfer funds to the major corporations, to the struggling companies here, but more importantly, of course, the strengthening of capital during this crisis period is a fundamental issue, and we've allowed the capital to be added to the capital in order to ensure that this capital stays strong. So, there's a limitation here. A profit distribution was made under the permission and control of the BDK (BDK) to not exceed 20 per cent, depending on capital competency ratios. So there's a very fundamental, very serious limitation here.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0183par0239	Minister, does it include the public on the market? 17.8 per cent?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0182par0240	As far as I know, there's no distinction here. There is a limitation from the BDDK (BDK) in terms of the entire banking sector. Capital efficiency is being taken into account, but distribution has been allowed at a maximum rate of 20 per cent. Thus, the banks, whose capital structure was weak, were likely unable to distribute any profits.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0183par0241	I meant foreign control. You said 17.8 percent, does it include public explanations?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0182par0242	Now, you see, foreign control is one thing, foreign share is another.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0183par0243	Well, we're also curious about your share.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0182par0244	I'll share it with you. I used the number for control. Now, there will be a collection here as soon as we get the notice of the Competitiveness Agency's punishments. As of now, we, the Ministry of Finance, have not yet received such a notice, and we are likely to be expected with a justified decision. I mean, I'm not so sure about the process, but if I find out about it, I'll share it with you. Now, these are, like I said, basic, specific issues. Now for the interest lobby debate. Dear friends, of course, first, if you'll excuse me, I'll share a few numbers with you. Indeed, Turkey's long-term resources in the past went to significant interest payments. This is a fact of Turkey. I mean, I don't mean to blame any period. Turkey's domestic debt increased very quickly in the 1990s. In 1990 -- if I remember correctly -- Turkey's internal debt was 57 million liras in new money, 57 trillion liras in old money. Now, when we were in the early 2000s, it went up to 150 billion, so it went up to 150 quadrillion with the old money. So the interest rates -- of course, you'll appreciate that at that time -- are going to get a lot more and more of our budget, our tax revenues -- have gone to interest in these times. For example, in 2002, about $86 of the $100 tax was going to interest, 43 percent of the budget was going to interest. This is a fact of Turkey. Now, in this period, of course, the stability of macroeconomics has also dropped interest rates due to a permanent decline in inflation. Although interest rates have dropped, interest costs have suffered huge decreases in interest rates, both in the budget and in proportion to tax revenues. For example, in 2002, the interest payments of the state within a national income of about 15 per cent have been reduced to around 3.3 per cent, and the share of tax revenues has dropped from 86 per cent to 16 per cent to 17 per cent. I mean, Turkey has created a really large financial area from this interest drop, and this financial area -- I'm saying it's basically -- has gone to education, has gone to health, has gone to social spending. Now, you can appreciate that there are very hot, speculative sources in all markets that are expecting to make money off interest landings or in such approaches, and there are some funds in that direction, even real individuals in that direction. It's not just Turkey's problem, it's really a problem. There are parts of the financial market that act on this fiction. Now, it's probably this section that our Prime Minister is referring to here, but in general, there's also a lobby of interest. All countries are competing with each other. Everyone wants to make their position stronger in the international arena, in the regional sense, globally. Of course, it's not a race everyone wins, it's going to work against the others so they can win. Now, here, I personally think that, look, in principle, we have the source and solution to the problem if we have a problem, but you have to admit that in these kind of developments, in these kind of misty environments, in the backgrounds, or in the beginning, there's a possibility that certain environments are also involved, and there's a possibility that there are some organized actions in that sense. I mean, while I don't believe in conspiracy theories, it's also a fact that these kinds of issues can be exploited from time to time, and these kinds of issues can be turned into opportunities. Now, that's it. Probably, like I said, this could be considered in that frame. As for the question of Mr. Dibek, of course, labor is important, so there is no hesitation in it, dear friends. To appreciate the work of our brothers and sisters who work in Turkish Airlines and to solve their problems as well. But, what I said here was, I said this sincerely: Tourism in Turkey is a very important sector, when I said that national security is very important, because when we enter the summer season, a serious problem in Turkish Airlines can seriously hurt Turkey. Of course, we want the problem to be resolved in compromise with the employees of the company, so we're on the side. Therefore, it is not an approach to ignoring problems, but it is not the right approach, of course, to actually present these problems in Turkey with an approach that will cause serious damage.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0184par0251	Mr. Secretary, he's moving out. But look, it's illegal to hire people. The strike can take longer, so it takes five years, it takes three years, it doesn't matter, it's being replaced. Let's make a deal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0182par0252	As I said, the principle of solving these problems on the table is of course important for our country, for our country's interests. So if there's a compromise, of course it's up to us to contribute. As for the zoning plans in Tekirdağ: I don't know much about it, I can only say in general: We have serious problems in energy, of course. We are seriously dependent on outer energy; over 90 per cent of oil is an addiction in natural gas over 98 per cent, which is an average 72 per cent dependency in primary energy sources. And in recent years, there have been serious increases in energy prices. In 2002, Turkey imported 9 billion dollars of energy, while its energy import exceeded $60 billion in 2012. Now, we especially need to activate local and renewable resources. This is a fact of Turkey. This is important for our competitiveness, it is important for the industrialisation of Turkey, it is important for the sustainable growth of Turkey. Now, while we're doing this, of course, we can't sacrifice the environment. We must keep an eye on the environment, and in these matters, of course, it is essential that consultations are held in the local area, a negotiation with NGOs, a dialogue with them in that sense. I don't have any doubts about it, but like I said, I don't think it's right to comment on the specifics that you're talking about because I don't know anything about it. Now, about the questions of Mr. Öpül. Again, I don't know which school, which schools you're talking about, which I don't really know, so if any citizen or you, a member of the community, needs to step in, you can, of course, make a suggestion or a complaint. This can be studied if there's a monopoly going on here. The monopoly would be absolutely wrong, because it prevents innovation from being efficient, and we can't possibly find such an approach right. Now, what you're talking about is a private development for a small plot of land. The truth is, I don't really remember the details right now, but if you do have any backgrounds or problems here, I'll share them with you. Now, let's talk about $1. Honestly, I don't know. My friends gave me a note. Under Law 1264, memory coin printing can be carried out by the Mining or Mark Print. This could be the money we're talking about. Our friends say so. There have been very limited complaints about $100 bills. It's about the security feature that can be seen with ultraviolet, which has returned, and there's no problem in the general sense. In the limited frame, as I said, a problem has been detected and done. If I remember correctly, I answered all the questions.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0185par0259	Mr. Öğüt, are you going to ask me questions again?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0186par0260	There's time, I'll ask you one more question.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0185par0261	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0186par0262	Now, Minister, I'm saying this because the investments are about money. Some of the districts of Çankırı have problems. So, for example, the routes to the village of Bucura, Yenice village, the village of Redibrik, the village of Willowslu, and the village of Beralözi are not possible because of the highway that passes through the middle of the village. There's got to be a subgate here, but there's something about getting a grant from you. Again, there are seven-story buildings in our Atkaraca district, there are TOKI buildings, there are fire departments that can go up to two floors; there is a very serious problem. Since there's no grant, there's no way a fire department can be sent there. Again, 56 investors in the central district of Çankırı have requested the organised industrial region, so far there is no response. You know, this hot money runs away very quickly and gets spooked very quickly. It's been more than six months. These people ask if they will not be given, if they will be given, they will be given. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0187par0266	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0188par0267	There won't be time to answer.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0187par0268	One more question, and I'll give you time. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0189par0270	Madam Secretary, I don't object to your general assessment, I'm not saying anything, but we've had a social trauma over the last three weeks, and our country has suffered in the world, and the United Nations has condemned it today. So, given the motive -- by Mr. Prime Minister, we have to consider -- the country's Prime Minister says that there is an interest lobby that finances this social trauma, these actions. It's a very important claim. So who is this interest lobby? Who is the interest lobby that finances the democratic order of this country's traumatic actions? If the Prime Minister is telling us, we need to take this seriously. We can't get past the general assessments, the general facts, but no, it's a lecture. If you say that, we won't tell him anything.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0187par0271	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Secretary, whatever you say in a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0190par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, if there's a road problem in some districts of Çankırı, if it's about the highway, first of all, we give our Transport Ministry a very serious amount of additional funding every year. So, you'll appreciate that, as the Finance Minister, we can't really handle all the problems if we're looking for an additional resource, and we're looking for an additional resource, and we're both budgeting to the relevant institutions and this kind of micro-level -- don't get it wrong, I mean -- these are important issues. But I'll tell you this: if this problem can be solved easily under the state's private administration, let the governor send me a file, and I'll take care of it. That's the first thing.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0191par0275	Okay.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0190par0276	Now, about the fire department: from time to time, if I remember correctly, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism can support our municipalities in these matters. There may be an assessment in this framework, but I, the Minister of Finance, can go out now and give the cars to the fire. If I say, everyone will be at my door, so it will be hard for me to do that.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0192par0278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You can give me the rest in writing now. We've extended the deadline for a minute or two, and we don't have that kind of authority.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0193par0280	Yeah, well, you're promising the group's deputy presidents here, Mr. Secretary, that's what he's saying.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0192par0281	There's no such bargain, you know, gentlemen.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0193par0282	It's not a negotiation...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit03spe0192par0283	I'm sorry. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I now submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be admitted to the provisions of the bill. I'm taking an hour off from lunch. I'm calling this session off.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0192par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of Bill 473. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part includes 1 to 26. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Münir Kutluata, Sakarya MP. Mr. Kutluata, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0194par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the first chapter of the Law Bill on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. I salute the High Council. Rapid developments in technology and communication systems find a wide range of applications in every aspect of life. The creation of knowledge, the development of technology, the acceleration of communication reshapes all areas of everyday life. Having a chance to implement this broadly in everyday life has further fueled the demand for information production, new technologies, and new production systems, revealing an enormous positive spiral of development. As a result, two groups, such as countries that produce and develop information and technology and develop communication systems, have emerged as clients of goods and services as a result of these developments. I would like to share with you this objective discovery: Unfortunately, Turkey has wasted the most important years of the age of knowledge, making it an occasion to brag about being an important customer in this field because it cannot create the structure that produces information and technology. The FATIH Project is an example of this from the introduction of the project to domestic car production debates, nuclear power plant projects. The next bill aims to understand the environment in the world and in our country and the future development of the present state of the system of technological development reflected in the financial system and in the area of payments. When you look at the situation in which the desired environment is being arranged, the following table appears: First, some payment tools have emerged under the name of electronic money and have gained rapid prevalence. On the other hand, the fact that the legal infrastructure hasn't been created and that this area won't be able to take any more space. It is also clear that certain arrangements must be made between those who provide services and those who receive service in electronic monetary transactions, which are accepted for a broad range of effects from payment systems to Central Bank policies and economic stability. Both electronic money and the obligation to meet international legislation in the field of payment and security agreement systems is also an important reason. On the other hand, although payment services are provided by various organisations, it is also mandatory that there is no equality between supervision and supervision. As a result, it's a delayed arrangement that comes our way. Our desire is not to be incomplete, nor to be troubled. Dear lawmakers have been emphasised on how important active work of payment systems is for financial stability at every stage of this bill. I would like to take this opportunity to focus on the financial system and financial stability: First, I'd like to point out that the already important financial stability has become much more sensitive to the Justice and Development Party's ruling and that its vulnerability is growing. We need to see the reasons behind the fact that the Turkish Central Bank, whose primary task is to ensure price stability, is to be held responsible for financial stability at this time. In the economy, which is essentially a real area, we see that a false term called "reel economics" has been affected at this time. It's the real cut that's meant to be, but behind the development of such an understanding is the fact that the importance of the financial sector has increased dramatically. That's because it's the law of negativity, lack of financial resources. It can be said: How can it be? In fact, there's plenty of finance. We're talking about a lack of national resources, the speculative capital of a large number of foreigners. To sum up the economic policies of power very briefly, the picture is: Financial stability should be facilitated by economic policies, but it can't be done, it's only left to the Central Bank's monetary and interest policies. There's an economy that can't win the currency he needs. It's becoming the world's most expensive economy because it can't win foreign currency, and because of imports, the production is even worse, it's going to need more foreign currency in the next year. Since there's no production, it's the households whose income is down. There's an economy that's wasting money on debt because it's low. At the coming point, we're dealing with a macroeconomic painting with $60 billion in current expectations, $173 billion in hot money, which he has to pay in a year, which is 163 billion in foreign currency debt. So we live in an economy whose financial stability is dependent on other countries' financial policies. What can be done about financial stability is the central bank's usual struggle. For all these reasons, financial stability has become very fragile, and we see that the banking system has been declared an interest lobby. It's very important that this day was done while the eulogies were being hailed yesterday. The fact that the economy was shrinking by 4.8 per cent in 2009, while the banking sector profited 20 billion Turkish liras was one of the main ways the government boasted. What we said at the time was that the regulations made during the 557th government were not for the banking sector and foreign capital, for the excessive profit of foreign capital, for the development and financing of the economy and for the growth of hot money. And these claims were superficial claims against our findings. Not only did the banking sector make 20 billion Turkish liras in 2009, but in 2010, 22.1 billion Turkish liras profited, 19.8 billion dollars in 2011 and 23.6 billion Turkish liras in 2012. Now, it's pretty clear that instead of making the system this way, it's the result of policies that have been carried out in the interest lobby, instead of going into the middle of what's called the real economy and making the financial sector so fragile, instead of going in front of this painting and giving responsible statements. I'd like to give you an example of the valuable lawmakers: total loans are 32.5 billion Turkish dollars in 2002, 848 billion Turkish liras in April 2013. In 2002, please note that consumer loans have a 0.4 per cent -- not even half a percent share in total loans -- while today the economy of Turkey has risen to 33.6 per cent, which is the most obvious example. When we look at people who use consumer loans, 54 per cent are paid, 38 per cent of their income is less than a thousand liras, 61 per cent of their income is less than $2,000. Now, in the environment of such a structure, I would like to take you a few months, five or six months ago. While the 2013 budget was being discussed, both the Finance Minister -- ministers currently in office -- and the Deputy Prime Minister, who is in charge of the economy, had linked the hope of the economy's development, the hope of growth, growth, increase in debt for households, and spending on debt. The only reason at that time was that in countries of the European Union or in some developed countries, debt rates were higher than ours. It has not been noted that 38% of the debtors in Turkey have less than a thousand liras in income, and 61% have less than $2,000 in income. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Explain to us who didn't produce it, who couldn't produce it, who imports it, who imports it because they import it, who can't produce it, who can't increase their income because they can't produce it, who can't save it, who can't save it, who can't lend it to us, who is in the lobby, where they are, where they are, and where they are, I think the ten-year-old story needs to be told nicely. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0195par0030	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. The second speaker on behalf of the groups is İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0196par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've taken the liberty of explaining the views of the Republican People's Party on the bill that regulates the payment systems, but I would like to use my speech to explain my views on the streets and streets, which are, in fact, Turkey's most important problem right now. Now, this is a word from the origin of Parliament and parliament in French, which means to speak. Everything is spoken here. First of all, the issues of the country are discussed and the most important matters are discussed here. With such an important agenda, the streets are boiling, and all the sociological acceptances in Turkey are turned upside down, and all the political theories on Turkey are difficult to analyze, and the Turkish Republic's Parliament can't pretend there's nothing, act as if everything is normal, act as if they're doing what they're supposed to do at normal times. So I think it's important to talk about these problems and these problems at every opportunity and under all circumstances. Indeed, the past 25 days in Turkey have brought to the front of Turkey a framework in which all the acceptances of Turkey have been turned upside down. I think that all political makers of both power and opposition Turkey, all political interests, must analyze these processes and the developments that have resulted in these processes very well, and through them, read them, make themselves better. A very important process is taking place in Turkey. In fact, the developments over the past 25 days have actually been a breaking point in a process that has only begun in the past. This process started on October 29th, actually. We began a process in politics on October 29th, when power, especially the power and street that had been established on the street for a very long time. After April 8th, we had a process in Turkey, where people were able to make their own political opinions on the street, where they were able to convey their own political opinions, to gain space, especially when parliaments, the MPs who were sent to parliaments, were actually started to become dysfunctional, and all of the roofs that we were on here, instead of producing a policy, were only 3-5 or 10 people or 10 people who were being used as a roof for their political ranks, and they were increasingly in Turkey. Of course, the gatherings at the Travel Park and the subsequent processes, such as October 29, stood apart from such processes, such as April 8, May 1st. It couldn't be associated with all its dimensions and all its aspects, but as a method, as a mechanism, and as a framework in it, it was the result of an extension of the street and street exploration that I was talking about. Since the 1990s, I've seen the union movement in Turkey, including student activities, and all other political and social movements, and as a person who has observed, you're not this much of a center, so unlike each other, so heterogenous, but so respectful, disciplined, stable, stubborn street activism. Now, you have to think about that. This is a new situation, no doubt. In what ways is it new? For once, there's a mass here between 19 and 30 years old, and I've never seen such a crowd, so young. Polls are being conducted, and for the first time in polls, people who say they participated in an activation are more than 50 percent of the people who joined. We've seen for years that the masses we've considered apolitically come to the fields. Of course, it is not necessary to perceive the concept of aapolitical (apolitic) in the narrow sense. And if they're not going into the process of narrow-minded action, if we're taking it apolitically because people and they're not entering, yes, these were apolitics. But they weren't involved in political actions because they didn't see that the political aspects of their actions were clear enough. Now they're flowing and they're in power on the street, it's important to see it well, to perceive it well. Look, there was a heterogeneous group in the square, not homogeneous. There were political, even political, not even political, not even political, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, and many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, have felt have been, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, So, what brought them together? Now, my friends from the ruling party here need to do a very good analysis. What brought these masses together? Look, go around the streets, the main theme is: freedom and democracy. If you ask now, what do you understand about freedom and democracy? You see there's an opposition to the AKP as a common message that puts them together, and especially a opposition to the Prime Minister. I mean, we're talking about people who have met with the opposition to the AKP, and especially the opposition to the Prime Minister. Now, this is the first time this has happened in Turkey, so it's so heterogeneous, so unlike each other, but it's the first time we've seen the presence of masses gathered around a main message in Turkey. Then I have to ask, is that a coincidence? Is it a coincidence that the community of people who gather all the people here, who are so spontaneous, who come together without moving from such a center, is in such a stubborn, determined, stable, long-term political street act? Of course it's not a coincidence. This is actually the natural result of the victims of the policies that the AKP's government has followed for the past 11 years. Look who's there. From people who think that their own lives have been interfered with in the way of alcohol regulation, there are people who have been there for the third bridge, because of reactions to the name Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, or that our children, our daughters, are sitting in the arms of others? And from the masses acting against the speech of the Prime Minister and especially those people who can't express themselves in a way and who can't, in a way, until teachers who can't be appointed, there have been people here who have been associated with the victims of policy that has been being implemented for ten years, and these people, especially those people who have not been able to express themselves in any way in any way in any way, in any way, in every way, in every way, in every way, every way, in every way, every way, in every way, every way, in every way, every way, in every way, every way, in ten years, and every way, in every way, in every way, in every way, every way, in any way, in every way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, the ten years, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way Look, I've been in at least 10 of the activities that have been going on for twenty-five days; I've made observations, I've been there, I've tried to perceive mass psychology, I've made notes about it. All of this, it's all from my experience here. You may not agree with this, but when you watch it on TV, when you're not in the fields, your observations are missing, and you need to be there for a little while. See, political projects that are able to read the message of the squares and the field correctly, you could call it a political party, or you could call it a political project that's gathered around a person, or you could call it a normal, concrete political project, that can understand it, that can interpret itself according to this, that will be the center of political power in the coming period. Those who can't grasp it, those who can't read it, those who perceive it as a simple uprising, you'll see understanding that it's trying to suppress it with force and violence, that the coming periods will be in the garbage of history. Turkey has a new turnusol paper in front of it, a new turnnusol paper where everything is clear and everything is shaped accordingly. I advise you to understand that and make excellent use of the street message. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0197par0049	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. On behalf of members of the first chapter, Mr. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP. Mr. Little, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0198par0053	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Bill 473, and I salute you all. Dear MPs, as you know, from May 31st until now, the world has testified to two different Turkeys: First, Turkey witnessed the rise of youth. The world witnessed a youth who responded to insults with humor, with a book against sticks, with guitar against TOMA, and with Twitter against pepper spray. On the other hand, he witnessed a power that tried to crush this youth with pepper spray, with a police baton. On the one hand, he witnessed a youth who refused to alter and humiliate any other, which showed that the fate of all the people was shared, and the world, on the other hand, divided its people by percentages. Our young people have shown not only to us, but to the world that despite their percentages, solidarity is stronger than TOMA, it is stronger than pepper spray, it is stronger than baton. On one hand, the world saw a creative mind, an incredible mind held on the other. And when the world bore witness unto them, and the young were in division, and they were in the midst of oppression for their freedom, ye could not read the demands of that square, and ye heard not the cry of liberty rising in the field of division. You've given gas to children who take care of their cities. You thought we'd crush three or five young people trying to protect three or five trees, but they're tens of thousands; the whole world heard about their freedom, and you're the only one who didn't hear it. You thought we'd put three monkeys in the media, come and go. As you closed your ears, there were tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands. Young people, the people who fill the squares in every city say, "We don't need your tolerance or your contempt." They say, "You have to respect us." You said you were drunk, you said you were a thief, you said you were a fiscal lobby, you said you weren't going to eat, you said you weren't going to drink in town. Not enough, but you have divided the people; you have walked over the future of the land, and over the tomorrows of the land; you have squeezed water, and you have sprayed your people as if they were insects. People are dead, people are hurt, people have lost their eyes, but look, they're still standing up like a tree, and now they know they're a forest. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It is necessary to understand correctly why these people are being thrown into the street, what this resistance is, what this solidarity is, and respect my way of life. Don't insult my preferences, he says. "Don't use the authoritarian state language, " he says. He says, "Don't cut down my tree, don't make my park a mall." He calls me not to impose on me a certain way of life. You don't have the right to my body and my choices. Don't speak for me. Let me say what I have to say freely, without fear, without worrying about what will happen to me tomorrow. I'm in the square because you tried to take them away from me, because you interfered with my freedom. But I'm not afraid anymore, I've crossed the wall of fear. That's why all roads to division are blocked, but the whole place is called division, resistance. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, now is the time to sit down and think, not just for power, but for every part of society, the time of common sense, the time to fix hearts that are broken, now is the time to see that it's not the loud one, it's the time to see that it's the right one, it's the time to see that democracy is no longer just the chest, it's the word that every member of this community has to say. If we don't think, if we don't act rationally, if we continue to shout like this, if we change the simplest of demands called the "marginal" and we don't see that this amplification will also disrupt social peace, we won't just lose the stability of the country, I'm afraid we'll lose our future as a partner, and I salute your grand delegation with respect.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0199par0060	Thank you, Mr. Little. Now on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Münir Kutluata of Sakarya. Mr. Kutluata, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0200par0064	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own. I salute the High Council again. Dear lawmakers, I have just told you that the matter of the law that is being discussed is often mentioned in connection with financial stability, so I would like to focus on financial stability. I'd like to touch the missing issues with a few sentences: that financial stability has become very fragile, and that the Central Bank's burden has increased greatly. Indeed, we all know that when we look at the difference between Turkey's illegal domestic product and its non-national product in the first quarter of 2013, which fell to 2.2, in 2012, the way to correct this progress, which basically meant shrinking for the economy, only depends on the production of consumers, households. Now, in a structure like this, the Central Bank is also tied up. The interest must be low in order for the central bank to expand its household's credit opportunities and move cheap loans to consume imported goods. However, in order to get that loan and to bring those products, we need the speculative capital that we call hot money from the outside. And for him to come, he'd have to offer high interest, and he'd need a high advantage. In such a structure, the Central Bank has to take a number of zigzag measures with daily policies, while the issue of financial stability, which is essentially in the lower rank between its duties, has been ranked as the first for the Central Bank, while at this point there are no clear solutions before Turkey, and the arguments remain superficial and the answers remain superficial. Dear lawmakers, the nation is out of consumption because it has no income, because it cannot participate in production. When we look at employment statistics in Turkey, unemployment statistics, we see jobs are shifting from the production areas to the inefficient service areas, so the income, the employment structure, has been spectacularly corrupted, and the wages revenues are going down. So that's what happens when the way to stimulate the economy is to revitalize the production fields, and we just see the consumption path as the only way to do it. In that sense, we see that economic debates in Turkey are expected to shift to other areas. Dear lawmakers, the banking system, the government's only sound banking system, which has been a pride for ten years, so as long as it doesn't come from behind, the banking system will talk more about the economic benefits of the banking system than of the economy as long as it has to finance a large amount of consumption in the field. Imagine a banking system where 24 per cent of its profits come from an area that has to be marginalized and has to stay, like a credit card. When we look at it this way, we're in a spectacularly negative state of mind. At this point, I have to say that we've invented an interest lobby that exists, that we've been putting production in second place all along, that finance has played a major role, that finance is not domestic finance, and that it's increasing the economy's dependence, and that we're putting aside what we're saying at the moment, and that we're denying that the government should come out with interest lobby reviews. Despite the disposition of Mr. Babacan munis, those who live in a secret mansion should not throw stones around, those who talk about politics must face the consequences. Thus, the bad course in politics is about to be reflected in the economy. In this regard, rather than giving information on a number of issues as commentators, the power needs to demonstrate in a convincing way what its main measures are. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0201par0072	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. Now, we have friends entering the system, so we're going to do a QA. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0202par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have two questions. First: What is the current state's share of the Republic's Central Bank Corporation now? Who are the other foreign partners with the highest share in this bank and what are their share rates? Second, as of yesterday, despite all our warnings, our objections, the privatisation process of Syedemer thermal power plant and coal management has been completed. As soon as the signature was signed, 571 subcontractors were laid off yesterday afternoon after the handover, and claims that some workers from the southeast would be brought in instead mixed up with Kütahya. How do you intend to resolve this worker's victimology? Are the allegations true? If that's true, when did you decide that as a government? I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0203par0079	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0204par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, my question was mainly about the Minister of Energy sitting at your place, but they left. I'd like to ask: There's going to be a thermal plant at the Koz tree in Bursa. June 26th, CED report expires, tendered. But my suggestion here is that we couldn't get Mr. Secretary to accept it, so please, we want you to see this place, the Valley of Koz these days, because it's the best of cherries and it's at a time when they're all being exported to Europe, and we want you to see the greenness and cherries of that valley, because we want you to see the difference between the upper body and the upper body in the feasibility reports, and we want you to put an end to it, so that the thermal plant can't be done here. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0205par0085	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0206par0087	Mr. Minister, I saw you as the Minister of Finance as an opportunity for you to know these things: think of a government, a country that couldn't draft the budget bill. What does that mean, what are the consequences? Is it possible for you to make a general assessment? My second question is, how many times have you received a financial pardon since December 2002? Forgiveness, restructuring, sir, here, with a change of law, in terms of the bag law, how many times have you issued a fiscal pardon in various ways, and how many dollars of public resources have you given up? If it's possible... Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0207par0090	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0208par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, there's an Ataturk Cultural Center, one of the most important buildings of the republic, you know, in the recently prominent Zombie Square. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was earmarked with 69 million,478 thousand plus VAT, some from sponsors, some from the Ministry of Culture, and that money was spent. As a result of this strengthening, it would also be opened this year. The Ministry of Culture had projects, but suddenly the Prime Minister said the ECM would be destroyed. As a Finance Minister, what is your responsibility for the public's going to be, who's going to be in charge, who's going to pay for it? That's what I want to know. So it's been closed for four years. There will be construction, something new, destruction, a new project. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How long will Istanbul be without a concert hall? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0209par0097	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0210par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, on Twitter, we carefully followed the duel you entered with Dani Rodrik. Of course, when I'm on the other side with my country's minister, I'd like to be on your side, but the other guy is an economics professor at Harvard University. You're saying that we've tripled the national income in the last decade. He says that if you do this without account, without account inflation, you'll be playing with numbers, the real account is 67 percent.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0209par0101	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0211par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the time for this entity's peace will expire on July 31st, but due to recent events, an estimated number of figures will not come from abroad due to demonstrations and political turmoil. So, do you plan to extend the period of existence peace and come up with such a bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0212par0106	Mr. Secretary, have them come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, thank you for your questions. If you'll excuse me, I'll start at the end with Mr. Kuyoğlu's question. Of course, there is a peace of existence, if circumstances are really required, you know the Council of Ministers has a mandate to extend for a period of time. For this reason, we have seen the peace of existence as a good opportunity, especially to ensure that the outside resources enter the economy of Turkey, at least. And the reason is that in the last few years, banks in the West haven't been very safe, and even in countries in the European Union, it turns out that banks can go down, and depositors can go down, so I don't have to give an example, I don't have to name the country. Secondly, you'll appreciate that we've taken very serious steps, especially within the G20, within the OECD, in recent years, to minimize these competitive, damaging practices of tax evasion in these banks, that money is no longer, in fact, hidden as it is supposed to be. Of course it's important. Of course, a citizen of any country, our citizens can keep an account outside, so that's not illegal, but the important thing here is to pay his taxes, one way or another, to pay his taxes. Third, of course, after this crisis, indeed, Turkey was separated from Europe in particular, giving a relatively strong performance. Now, thanks to these, we said... there's a bank out there that's at least this international swap bank, known as the bank of central banks, BIS. Now, according to this bank's data, Turkish citizens have about $130 billion of money out there. You know, if we can bring a significant part of this into Turkey's economy, both in our country and in our country, the capital structure of corporations will be stronger, and maybe the external debt of our companies is far below what it should be, that's the goal now. Of course, we're going to have to see if these recent events can affect them. You know, when a need like this comes along, I mean, I'd love to extend it, but like I said, it's too soon, we're just in the beginning of this process. Well, as you can appreciate, the arraignment just came out, so we're gonna have to take a look at it. As for the question of Mr. Private -- let me put it this way -- with Mr. Rodrik, the point is, Mr. Rodrik says that national income has increased by about 63 per cent, and national income per person has increased by a little over 40 per cent. I have no objection to that. What I'm talking about now is the IMF, the World Bank, the United Nations, the European Commission, the OECD, take any work, any work. You'll see there that the national income per person is often expressed in two ways, per person. One of them is either a multinational income in dollars at current prices or a multinational income in purchasing power. Now, the difference between us is, I mean, I know how much national income goes up per person at fixed prices or at fixed prices, and I have no objection to those numbers. My objection to this is, I also said there that day: I mean, I worked in a lot of different investment banks for years, international banks, and we did national analysis. In this country's analysis, we usually look at national income per person based on the current dollar dry and the current GDP. Now, when you look at the illegal domestic product at current prices, the current dollar is dry, and at current prices, you'll actually see that the illegal domestic market in this country went from about $230 billion to $786, 787 billion in 2002 last year. And when you divide that into our population, you'll see that about a million dollars per person -- I'll tell you about it -- is going from $3,500 to about $10,500. Now, that's what we're saying, or, of course, if you look at national income at fixed prices, the numbers are there, and I have no objection to that. The only difference is that there's an approach in international comparisons that I say in national income comparisons. If you look at Wikipedia, you will find that the World Bank, whatever work you look at today, has been approached in this frame. So, actually, we're talking a little bit about different things here. Of course, the difference there -- like I said -- is related to what we're looking at. Now, as for Mr. Öğüt. As for Mr. Öğün, dear friends, about the Ataturk Cultural Center, the truth is, how much money has been collected from the private sector, from the public sector? Has this been strengthened? The truth is, I'm not much of an expert on all this information, so perhaps our Minister of Culture and Tourism is more prolific. As far as I'm concerned, I've read that strengthening may not be enough. I mean, as far as I can tell, but probably these recent evaluations were built into this, but, as I said, you can ask my friend, the Minister, again, about the details of the case, or rather the nature of the project. That way...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0214par0115	So if this money's been spent and it's going down, will it be responsible?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0116	Well, I don't know if it's wasted.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0214par0117	I mean, if it was wasted.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0118	Oh, well, if it's spent, of course, it's not the right approach, but if it's not, I mean, at the beginning of the job, if there's any indication that this strengthening -- look, I'm talking on conditional terms -- can be inadequate -- so with the expert opinion -- then it's really pointless to spend that money. Well, I'm not an expert on these matters, personally, but there's a lot of considerations that the empowerment isn't very efficient. Now for the question of Mr. Shandır. Of course, it's a hypothetical question, so what happens if a country can't do a government budget, so it doesn't have a budget bill? Well, of course not, so I can't think of anything like that.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0215par0121	For what reasons would the budget not be prepared, Minister?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0122	Sir?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0215par0123	For what reasons does the budget not prepare?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0124	There are extraordinary reasons, I don't know, but...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0216par0125	The government will fall.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0126	Yeah. ...as of today, of course, it's out of the question, it's out of the question, budgets have been drawn up. I -- just so you know -- actually, a couple of weeks ago, to get this budget ready, of course, I wrote the first piece to the public, so if you're asking, I kind of started the process. Generally, my friends are very critical of us at the Plan Budget Commission, and they're right about some things, but as Finance Minister, of course, since I'm in charge of the technical and other dimensions of this, I've already started the process.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0217par0129	He'll be on time this time, you say.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0130	He'll be on time.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0218par0131	No, I meant in a different way.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0132	Now, how many financial pardons have you received?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0218par0133	How many pardons? Peace of existence, tax peace...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0134	I'll tell you this: from 1923 to, I don't know, 2011, I did a study. The last time this was Law 6111, some of these arrangements were made, more or less, in two and a half years, if I remember correctly. Now, let me say this sincerely: in 2011 -- which was the first time in my era -- which was known as public amnesty, but personally, I've done my best to make sure that it wasn't forgiven. What did I do? I said, no matter how much you're going to pay in the past, pay for the inflation difference. I mean, the interest that's been waived here, well, that's interest, so of course, normally it's much higher here, 16.7 percent -- if I don't remember correctly -- I paid a interest... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0219par0137	Pack it up in a minute so we don't waste the time.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. So, basically, I don't approve of such configurations, I don't approve of pardons. I mean, I know it's a bit of a public conscience, it's a tax breaker, but not just in this period, but in every two and a half years, there's a will in that direction. I also want to say that I did everything I could to make sure that the last arrangement wasn't excusable. ▪ How much money has been abandoned? ▪ It requires a study. So, as you can appreciate, I don't have it in front of me.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0220par0141	We'll have to look into it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0213par0142	It's about this CED report. I, to be honest, am not familiar with the subject. I don't want to repeat what I said before, but I really think it's a good idea to look after both the environment and the energy needs together. The question of Mr. Light is... now, the shares of the Central Bank of Turkey are 55.12 per cent, national banks 25.74 per cent, other banks 0.02 per cent, real and corporate people 19.2%. That's what your friends gave me. These real and corporate people are our Turkish citizen friends.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0221par0145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the first draft of the current 473 rows of legislation. In the context of the article, we would like to see the expression changed in the form of all procedures and fundamentals. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğüt İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the First Amendment bill on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0222par0162	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0221par0163	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0223par0164	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0221par0165	Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0224par0167	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by saying good night. I salute you all. We're negotiating an important law. It's a technical law, a necessary law. There are some issues inside that have called for our concern. Mr. Mehmet Günal expressed here, indeed, I hope that those concerns will be answered. Other than that, it's a technical law. I'd like to bring the three things I've raised with questions back to you by using this motion as the basis of this motion. First, at the end of ten years of really ten years of power, there has been a social event that has raised many parts of society and put it on the street. In the review of this, especially in the interpretation of it, Mr. Prime Minister, a very different perception was created by the AKP's government, and those who failed in the chest intended to succeed in the street. It's a coup. It's called a coup. Other things have been said, not accepted, not accepted, but to me, the most permanent destruction, constructive evaluation was the....faiz lobby. A prime minister has received 50 per cent of the vote, and for three years, the ruling party's prime minister has tied a social trauma, a coup, a coup against democracy to an interest lobby, and while describing them, we've become 5 times richer during your mandate. If he pointed out the part that said, "It shouldn't be empty, precious MPs." There's a conclusion that can be traced back to anyone who's lived in this period of time in this House. If a prime minister has shown interest lobby as a motive for a civilian coup in this country, he needs to express this lobby, he needs to explain. If he doesn't explain it, he'll stay under it, directly corroborate himself, then he'll be blamed himself. You can't avoid the interest lobby, Minister. You have to explain, who? Make a motion to investigate. We said, "You didn't." Let's give it to him. Let's call it a research proposal. Let's explain, if there are some circles that intend to commit an illegal act against this country's democracy, against its national will, it is the responsibility of power to uncover them, then it is the responsibility of this Assembly. You have to explain the interest lobby, Mr. Secretary. The second issue: Dear Minister, look, if an investigation is conducted, you've received a large number of tax pardons in your power, much more than any period in the history of the republic. You've said "rebuilding," you've said "peace," you've made peace, you've arranged the law, you've made a bag of laws, but you've always given your pardon for surrendering to an address or a necessity. You've expressed that it has hurt your public conscience. Now, the name of righteousness has changed, and they look to the merchant, who pays the tax with dignity, in a different way. I mean, you destroyed social peace. This is indeed a serious handicap in terms of the future of AKP power. Another thing: is there a government that cannot prepare its budget? A government, a country, if it can't get the financial year budget ready, what are the reasons, what are the consequences? I don't remember, it won't happen, you said. But, Mr. Minister, the precious AKP MPs, the 57th Republic government that you have accused of coming to this stand every time came to work, this country had no budget. Dear friends, at the end of May, the 57th Republic government, which was part of the National Movement Party that received the vote of confidence, had no budget, no budget. As of the end of 1998, the financial budget of 1999 was not prepared. As a savings of years, the country was under such poor conditions that it couldn't even make a budget. The 57th Republic government took over a country without a budget and handed over an economic programme to you. He gave you a country, an economy, a budget, a country that had been reduced inflation -- reduced from 70 percent to 30 percent -- to 30 percent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you to consider this fact when you accuse the 57th Republic of which the National Movement Party is also a partner.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0225par0179	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the first draft of the current 473 rows of legislation. In the context of the article, we would like to see the expression changed in the form of all procedures and fundamentals. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0226par0186	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0225par0187	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0227par0188	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0225par0189	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0228par0192	Mr. President, before I speak, I ask God's mercy once again for three of our citizens and our police officers who have lost their lives in the Gezi Park resistance. In the same way, I wish all of our wounded to be healthy as soon as possible. Dear MPs, a few days ago was the 40th anniversary of the 15th and 16th June resistance. Remember, this resistance has been the greatest and most effective act in the history of the Turkish working class. The results of this march, one of the most glorious peaks of the working class's honorable struggle, have been an important turning point, especially for the combined workers to understand their power. The spirit of rebellion there has appeared to us today by changing shapes. This time, not only workers, young-age, labor-officer, retired-employee, trade-student, AKP-student, millions are now on the streets, saying they will not submit to the AKP dictatorship. Dear lawmakers, learning from history is especially the most important teaching in politics. Leaders who don't listen to the voice of the people and their rulers are doomed to collapse, disappear into the pages of history. For days, the Prime Minister and his team have been making a fuss over three trees on every stand they've been on. In fact, everyone knows that this resistance is because we have reacted to one morning when young people who stood up innocently for three or five trees, when they were burned down and attacked by gas bombs and TOMAESTs; because we did not want to have another part of Istanbul turned into concrete; we do not want Haydarpaşa to be looted. This resistance is because you've been tagging people for years; you've started a witch hunt to identify those who speak against you; you've been calling them terrorists and responding to their deaths. This is because you have removed the resistance, the unlawful detentions, and the abuses without question; the climate of fear that you have created all over the country; the zone of Salam, Kızılay Square, from being the May 1st area. This resistance is for our national festivals that you did your best not to celebrate; for our MPs, our academics, our journalists; for you are trying to divide our people into Kurd-Türk, Alevi-Sunni, religious-dar. This resistance is because you say secularism is a means, not a purpose; it's because you call the founders of our republic, who allow us to breathe in this land, a drunk. When the people live on the edge of hunger, the 800 lira is not enough. You condemn the worker to the subcontractor, because you devalue the doctor, the nurse, the teacher, the student, the police, the military, the officer, the engineer, the trade rooms; you devalue the trade rooms; you deal with institutions and organizations that you can't do yourself in all sorts of ways. This resistance is because you're trying to stop universities from being science nests, to silence youth; to demoralize our young people who are preparing for high school and university exams with the systems you've been changing; to ignore teachers you promised to appoint. That's because you didn't send your rich children to the army, you set fire to the poor pits. Take your mother to the farmer because you have destroyed livestock and agriculture, sold the land goods by inches, as you did in the contract of bridges and highways. This resistance is for all the souls of Reyhan, for Ulidere, because we are on the brink of war on the road with the motto of the zero problem policy with the neighbours. This resistance is because by not listening to the court's decisions, you have dominated the law of the superior rather than the rule of law, by creating your own media through tenders, which have been dealt with by fear, by deterrent policy. This resistance is because you interfered with our home, our bedroom, our education, our faith, our table; you gased the stadium without calling it a family; you failed to see the mayor representing Istanbul; you raised $240 billion in debt to $540 billion. This resistance is the resistance of freedom. You're detaining people who are still standing, threatening artists. You're taking advantage of the chaos, passing through the Oil Act, raising interest by saying, 'Faz lobby.' You're costing the Istanbul Stock Exchange $25 billion. You're upsetting our citizens with a harsh warning from the United Nations. You're rejecting our research proposals. However, if you had carried out your court decision on the first day in twenty days, it would not have been a situation where our young people would not have died, would not have been injured, and you would have dropped Turkey. Dear MPs, yesterday was the day Napoleon lost the Battle of Waterloo. Look, I'll tell you a joke: Napoleon was born again, he went to the White House, he was having dinner with President Obama, and he said, "If I had the weapons you had, I certainly wouldn't have lost the Battle of Waterloo." When I was eating with Putin, Putin returned to Putin, and said, "Mr Putin, if I had the KGB-like intelligence agency in your possession, I would never have lost the Battle of Waterloo." Then he came to Turkey. After dinner, Mr. Recep returned to Bey and said, "Mösyö Tayyip, if I had the perfect press in your hands, no one would have heard that I had lost the Battle of Waterloo." I hope you understand what has become of you in the last time we've been together. I also want to thank you for showing the public that without democracy there is no solution. These people only want democracy and peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0229par0210	Mr. Öğümün, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0230par0211	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit04spe0229par0212	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0229par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt and his friends' motion to vote on the first article of the bill was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. We will resume the talks of Bill 473. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the 473 Numbered Bill in question. In the matter, we would like to change the terms of the Electronic currency in the form of ▪ all electronic currency companies. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İlhan Demiröz Bkent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the Bills on Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0231par0023	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0229par0024	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0232par0025	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0229par0026	Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0233par0028	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Law number 473, so this law is about payments, so it's about banks. I have made a promise for this. Banks are in our daily lives for a long time. Of course, the recent rise of banks or interest lobbys, perhaps the interest lobby, which Mr. Prime Minister had said before the law, would stop consumer transactions from private banks, so let the state bank go to the state banks, and then the law would be on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. And a little more attention from the Prime Minister. Now, the Prime Minister's decision to avoid private banks, to public banks, consumers, or people who have transactions with banks, is to go to state banks, as if private banks in Turkey had a problem, so he's been doing interest rates for many years. Thus, a law such as this has been set up in long-term Turkey to continue processing banks according to European Union standards. Of course, banks should be more comfortable selling money from this European or money in Turkey, how they should be able to get their interest back... a company that, as we call these poor people from Anado, gives 10 cents to the poor people, mortgages their property and then takes over their property as soon as they don't pay, becomes an institution. So these banks, especially in the past decade, have been in private offices with ties, because of the luxury buildings -- in the past decade -- where they've been trying to give the loan to people at the point of industrial development, at the point of industrial development -- in the last decade, they've been trying to make money out of money, so these banks have a right to make money out of money in the bank, especially because they want to make money out of money in the bank, especially because they say that they have a sense of interest, especially in private offices with ties, because they want to make money out of people's sweat, but as people at the bottom of the stairs, so that they want to make it a little bit easier to take money out of Europe, and so that they say, for a little bit more than a little bit more money, they want to make money out of the U.E.K.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E. I personally object to this law, as the Nationalist Movement Party, because it stems from this banking, capital and capitalist understanding, and because it aims to make more money out of money, I personally oppose it, and we oppose it as the National Movement Party. Therefore, I say that we look upon this law, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0234par0034	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the 473 Numbered Bill in question. In the matter, we would like to change the terms of the Electronic currency in the form of ▪ all electronic currency companies. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0235par0041	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0236par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0234par0043	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Ilhan Demiröz, Mr. Bursa MP. Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0237par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party to express my views on Article 2 of the Bill on Payment and Securities Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. I salute you with respect and love. This clause organises procedures and foundations related to payment services, payment agencies. At the same time, the payment refers to a word, which can be used in a different expression, as well as in making promises. But we all see and know how weak the government's report card is. Dear legislators, as elected lawmakers of the 24th term, we have put two years of legislation behind us, and we are conducting our third year of legislation. I regret to inform you that during the past two legislatures, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have not made any laws that will take steps towards the production economy our country needs by constantly making the laws that the financial economy and the global economy need. You want samples? When we look at the 4+4 educational system, 2/B, the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk, the Metropolitan Law, the Electric Market Law, the Law on Underground Waters, the Public-Special Partnership and the Mera Law, we see that there are law studies that make some of our society sad, some of it doesn't concern us at all. Dear lawmakers, we know that the understanding of the AKP authorities' governance has always reflected a ranta-based sense of self-interest and mutual interest. The last example of this is from an interview reported to the press this week, where a businessman, allegedly a member of the AKP, is reported to be again a member of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting. In the case of a great scandal, the AKP member businessman says: "You must take my land from the hands of the peasant; you must take away our shores, our forests, our meadows from the hands of the people. Mera are more valuable than oil, transformed into wealth. In the last ten years, agriculture has been subjugated by the power of agriculture, and the villagers have no control over agriculture, I'm afraid there's nothing left. We can also show examples of Erzurum Ashmalele, Bursa Yenişehir and Mustafakemalpaşa districts in the matter of disposing of this understanding. We want this interview to be published in the press or explained by the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, whether it's true or not. Last week, I was in my constituency, Burma. Our farmers are devastated in the villages of Gündüzlü, Lowerballık, Hamalı, Muratbey, Hayriye, Bahariye, İşarlar, Çitlı, Çuteli, Akıncıçer, Hamidiye, and Babasultan, Gözede, Kozluören and Umital, in the villages of Kestel. In both counties, our peasants are victims. I'd like to express that these victims have been removed as soon as possible and that I have also called on the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, who has so far held the farmer's hand. In the same way, valuable lawmakers, Bursa İnegöl Şarççiçok village, are being provided with sources covering the drinking and irrigation water in the village of Şaziiye, Mezit, Osmaniye, Old Karacakaya, Ruştiye, Yeniköy, İhsecond, Kınuk, Özlüce, and Öslüce. I'd like to invite Mr. Secretary on this matter. The drinking water and irrigation water of 9 villages are taken from them. I give you all my love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0238par0055	Mr. Irony, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are two motions on the third article: T. B. M. Head of M This is the 3rd draft of the current 473 Rows Numbered Bill. 1 in matter. We propose that the expression of the real and legal person in his paragraph be changed to ▪ all real and legal persons. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İlhan Demiröz Bkent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment bill on the current Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman Nevzat Don't be afraid Mehmet Günal Ali İkım Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0239par0072	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0238par0073	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0240par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0238par0075	Scholar Light, Kütahya. Here you go, Mr. Alim.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0241par0078	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 3 of the Law Bill 473. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. Secretary, I believe in the QA section that I would like to once again share with the esteemed members of the High Assembly what you can't answer because of the lack of time. As of yesterday, the process of tendering the Kütahya Seyitömer Termic Plant and the Coal Company as a whole resulted. As soon as the handover was completed, we were confronted with the fact that 571 workers working as subcontractors at the thermal plant had been terminated and the companies they were working for were now thrown at the gate of the plant in Kütahya. Although we have repeatedly said that this is a privatisation process that violates the Constitution and the law, due to the government's search for a source to support the cash shortage, the current and budget deficit, I'm afraid that our righteous criticism has been ignored, but we are now in the home of nearly 2,000 subcontractors, where a fire is on fire, and the curses are on the sky. We must find a solution to this problem. Worst of all, the allegations that workers from outside Kütahya and especially some southeast provinces would be brought to those areas where they were evacuated have caused serious problems in Kütahya. We must ask for a solution from the mouth of authority and expect an explanation. All of the statements made by the politicians in Kütahya (Kütahya) so far have not yet been significant due to further developments in the opposite direction. From the mouth of the authority, which is one of the signed ministers, I especially ask you to make this statement because I am speaking as a member of a province on the verge of a very serious social explosion. I'd especially like to request your sensitivity to this. Another important issue: Precious lawmakers, the commission above discusss the Bill for the Protection of the consumer law. Unfortunately, with the pressure of banks, we're faced with a bill that has now legalized banks to force payments, such as certain judicial decisions as consumers and additional fees that banks want to buy, credit card fees and so on. Even though our friends and we insisted that it be removed, unfortunately, the government representatives, banks, the interest lobby, are being forced into the agenda of our beloved nation. I believe there are no regulations in this bill that will launder the money, where the Financial Crimes Research Commission will follow, where the PKK is taxing. But we see that it is easy for those who use this country's money on other channels from the opposition and from our review of the bill. So we think it would be appropriate for this item to be removed from the draft text. The amount of cash, according to the official response given by the concerned deputy prime minister, is now in Turkey, over 60 billion euros. However, the amount of the virtual economy returned with this money is 16 times more valuable than the amount of debt, over 900 billion TL. This bill also shows that with this debt-based virtual monetary system, how can we continue the economy a little longer? It is a product of the search. However, this job is in serious danger, and we feel that measures must be taken. However, so far, in the last 11 years, especially in your time, we've been five times richer. We don't understand the government's ability to change the agenda because of the recent social events that triggered this lobby's view of these events. This is not the real agenda, but there is a great danger to Turkey in the debt-based monetary system. I hope this bill finds a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0242par0084	Dear Light, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 3rd draft of the current 473 rows of legislation. 1 in matter. We propose that the expression of the real and legal person in his paragraph be changed to ▪ all real and legal persons. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0243par0091	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0242par0092	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0244par0093	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0242par0094	Manisa MP Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0245par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to our motion. When we look at the general basis of the law, we're adapting to the acquish of the European Union tonight. What are we doing, what are we going to do? Electronics money, online shopping, credit card-like, smart chips, pay-per-view tools. I mean, we held every bird in line with the acquish of the European Union, there was a stork missing, and we're holding it tonight, friends. Democracy stands, the regulations for freedom are standing, the system of justice for personal rights and freedoms, you continue to take advantage of the meat, milk, wool of coup laws, where the election dam is, and besides, there's a right that the generals, such as the authority to issue a decree of the law, have been given to him, and you're using crisses; the institution you used to complain about is now aligned; there's no problem here, but we're adapting to the European Union. Which European Union? After his statement, the Prime Minister said, "I do not recognise the European Parliament." We are in such a work right after the statement that he has ignored the European Parliament. Aren't we short? I think you do. Where is Mr. Minister Egemen Dona, who is in charge of relations with the European Union, who has made it his policy to nullify these relations tonight? Well, since we can track it from Twitter, somewhere he's picking on someone with his vision of the 140-charity European Union and the state man. He comes here, sits here, tweets from government lines all day. We're complaining to the president, and he's tweeting the complaint. He talks about everything, but not about the European Union. Now, tonight, Mr. Finance Minister is sitting here in his place and doing something he's supposed to do, and we're going to be working here until morning. Look, he talked about everything, he said something, but you have to look back at what he said when he needed to talk. U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki Moon criticised and after the White House, the European Parliament strongly criticised the practices of Erdogan and the AKP government, and from whom will the answer come? From the Sovereign Beneficent. How much vision do we have? 140 characters. The answer is: If need be, my son, we know very well how to say to those countries, "Go away. " The answer is the answer of the Lord Bagman. The European Parliament wrote like a brick about the Travel Park incident. I read the report, and I am ashamed as a member of this Parliament. We are concerned about the excessive and disproportionate force used by the police, he says. The investigations of those responsible should be opened, and the state should be transparent, he says. He says he must respect the basic rights of the people. The detention, detention and trial process of those detained must be revealed in a transparent manner, they say. The freedom of the press and media pluralism are the basic principle of the EU, which we remind the government of Turkey. Egemen Dona answers, 136 characters have increased four: No one should take responsibility from the situation, Turkey is not a banana republic. Look, here's the vision of the EU and democratization he shared the other day. While this Parliament was working, it threw its jacket on its shoulder, and took a view behind it, saying: "Let them stop, we will increase our nation's prosperity and individual freedoms. Look, please the ruling party must immediately open up the debate by running the democratic mechanisms that should be run. That's not an approach. And there's nothing to say about your sense of humor. In his joke about Leonardo da Vinci, the simultaneous translator hated life. The audience didn't understand what the joke was, and had they understood, they would have drawn relations to the level of maslahatgzar with Turkey; that would not have been an approach. Take a look at the spirit of travel there, and look at the subtle understanding, and the subtle sense of humor: I drove a truck the other day, and Leonardo da Vinci drove it. He's trying to develop a relationship from here, along with strangers. Now, we are in a situation where Mr. Egemen Bagis travels all over Turkey, he goes to Manisa, and he insults our President with unspeakable words, and he brings to his mind this joke: they took the alcohol test -- he didn't use it, but he drank the rat -- he said in the third double that the cat will come to this table. This is the case of the Sovereign Donor. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] It says that the cat will come to this table because of the power drunkness of your organization. Yes, Your Majesty Dona, that cat will come to this table and you will do what that mouse is doing. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0246par0108	Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0247par0109	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit05spe0246par0110	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0246par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Article 3 of the Manisa MP, Free Special and his friends, were unable to find enough to vote on the third article. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We will resume the talks of Bill 473. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 4 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. Article 1. We offer and propose that the statement of the fields in the joke be changed as a declaration of the fields. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Haluk Eyidoğan Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Amendment bill on the current Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Alim Işım Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0248par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0246par0023	Government?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0249par0024	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0246par0025	Scholar Light, Kütahya. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0250par0028	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 4 of the Law Bill 473. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation again. Our motion for this clause to be removed from the draft text has been brought to your attention as a valid motion, because we believe that the motion is in place because the general provisions are in place and because the bank and bank managers are fully in charge of the system, that any arrangement related to money in Turkey should be in place of provisions that could lead to new challenges by leaving the Central Bank's initiative. As a person who understands this business, I would like to ask this great Parliament to inform it on the real interest rates that have taken place in the past 11 years, because some of the key speakers of the ruling party who have been here say that interest rates in the 60 per cent in 2002 have been reduced to 10 per cent. And if they had been truthful, We would not have disputed them. Therefore, the interest rates of inflation and the nominal interest rate, defined as a real interest rate, have been the highest in Turkey in the world in the last decade, and must be explained to this great Parliament by one who knows. Therefore, Turkey today has become a troubled country where hot money traffic has been accelerated and many black money has been laundered. I'm afraid some of our friends can't understand these facts unless there's a serious assessment of real interest rates. So, Mr. Secretary, I would like to express to you that you have an obligation to give real interest rates to this Parliament on another basis, with the right information, during these law talks, to compare the net interest rates that have arisen after the impact of inflation has been dropped. In particular, over the past decade, there has been a transition period in Turkey, where exports have been encouraged, which has been sold and sold to other countries more than Turkey, where production has been encouraged. In this long term, Turkey is one of the main reasons why its economic stability has been avoided. Therefore, immediately, when we consider that this Incentive Law does not bring anything with the final application, a new production incentive is needed, and according to this, some of our provinces need to be resorted to a path supported by established facilities. Unfortunately, we all experience that new businesses are not established in a country where businesses that exist cannot survive while new businesses are being given some advantages. Therefore, I would like to share with you again that incentives to some regions should be reintroduced to include industrial enterprises, which are still working throughout Turkey, but the capacity rate of use is very low, and according to this, a new arrangement should be made. The fact that this bill was brought to the EU due to the arrangement for harmonisation -- as many friends have mentioned earlier -- has now lost its meaning. On the one hand, you will declare that you are enemies with the EU, that you do not know the EU, that you have brought bills to this great assembly on the basis of compliance with the EU. I just want to say that we're having a hard time figuring out which one is true. If a statement is made about this, the final point of closure of the chapters in the EU should also be known by the Supreme Assembly. With these feelings, I look forward to your support of our motion, and I give you my regards again.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0251par0036	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Foundations. Article 1. We offer and propose that the statement of the fields in the joke be changed as a declaration of the fields. Free Private (Manisa) and friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0252par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0251par0044	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0253par0045	Mr. President, Mr. Light had a question in his previous speech -- if you'll excuse me -- about the workers at Seyitömer Termic Plant. Now, of course, I didn't have the details of the matter, but I did have a dialogue with our lawmakers. Here's what I've learned: the firm has started to take the same workers again -- three to one -- as of today. From what I understand, the firm started its own subcontractor company, and started taking these subcontractors, the same workers, again. So I wanted to resolve your concerns in this way, at least in the context of the information that came to me. Real interest was about 25 percent annual ten years ago. This last interest is still around zero, but, of course, at the beginning of this May, the real interest was down to minus 2 percent. We can't agree. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0254par0049	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Special, come in, sir. Manisa MP, Free Special.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0255par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to our motion. I just mentioned Mr. Secretary, where he brought up relations with the European Union. He's fun, he's funny, he's funny, he likes jokes, but he has a very serious separation from the Prime Minister at this point because the Prime Minister certainly doesn't consider humor, humor, criticism within the limits of tolerance. So during his time in power, notice that the impressions of the Kenan Universe, who did the most brutal blow, were made in this country, in which there were jokes called "What's up, What's up?" Ironel had impressions, jokes, jokes, impressions of Bkent Ecevit, impressions of Mr. Erbakan, comedians who did an infinite number of impressions of Mr. Erbakan. Recently, even Adnan Menderes, who was in a hurry to collect something from his victimhood, had puppets on TV years after his death, had parodys, and his naive expressions became a subject of jokes. One person is not joking, he is Recep Tayyip Erdogan. You're going to say, is it out of fashion? The point of plastic art has been one-on-one by Obama, all of America watches every Thursday night, but no one dares to imitate Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to parody. Now, this is a statement that has been directed so far, and the Prime Minister has no longer objected to his own words, and I am not a dictator. It is a confirmation of the anti-controversy of those statements he calls. You have to make that clear. Just before he went on the stand, he said, I read: "There are arrests for the band.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0256par0058	No arrests, forensic control.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0255par0059	Yeah, the smiley face of these actions... the detentions turned into arrests. We're at a point where the jokes from the Market Group dropped the blood pressure. Your Deputy Prime Minister has given tributes to the Bazaar Group. Now in this country, Fenerbahçe, Galatasaray, my team, Fenerbahçe, my ascendant Market. We openly condemn this approach, which is completely contrary to the spirit of these Trip actions. In addition, it is clear that the Prime Minister's insufferability to humor is the greatest opposition to humor, that humor is the greatest criticism, that what humor reverses is the confirmation that the sovereign is basing the legitimacy. So if he starts an impression of the Prime Minister, everything he describes his legitimacy will be destroyed. So I don't give names to people who have done many famous politicians -- they ask one by one, are there any channels to publish even if I do? They face the answer. It's important to be clear about this, and don't be afraid of criticism, don't be afraid of songs, don't be afraid of aunts, don't be afraid of jokes, can't stand negotiations in parks, can't be afraid of reading, don't be afraid of the man who stops, don't be afraid of the man who stops... Look, the man who stood before him, he said: "The man who stopped is a CIA project." This is what they once said was a CIA project, as they say. Look, my friends, the man who stopped you, the man who stopped, when the turban was a problem, he put a headscarf on his head at the universities and did an act of standing with a headscarf.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0257par0063	I put it on to make fun of him. He said.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0255par0064	Now, that's how all your memorization goes down, and I'll tell you this: the dictators are afraid of everything, but what's most scared of him is if we analyze him, dear friends. You see where this is coming from, here's your problem. What's the hurry to build a building for my cab? All dictators hate the squares, so you have to go out and try to make a building disappear. The rally of respect for national wills, you're uncomfortable, the national rally of respect for will... the opposition in democracies rally in democracies; the power in Turkey when the election atmosphere comes, but you're in a state where the power has changed hands, the power has changed in the public, the people, the ruling youth -- Turkey's agenda for 20 days -- the people who have been in the market for freedom, the people who have been in the market for democracy. I set the agenda. The Prime Minister is running after the agenda. That's all your anger, that's all you're worried about, guys. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0258par0068	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0259par0069	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0258par0070	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0259par0071	The speaker...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0258par0073	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0259par0074	Mr. President, the speaker has used very ugly statements to our Group President. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0258par0075	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0259par0079	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have not met the first time on the charge of Turkey's didictator. If you look at political history, the Republican People's Party has called Adnan Menderese the didictator, and in colleges young people are being slaughtered with meat grinders. Oh, we've seen the same lies in the process. Mr. Deniz Baykal has explanations, Turgut Özal. Now they insist on calling him De Tayyip Erdogan. What kind of dictator has made seven choices in nine years, limited himself to three terms, and stated that politics is only temporary every time? Most of all, do you know who said that? For the first time in Turkish political history, something happened: Without the election, the social opposition eliminated the main opposition party. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE) And they expressed it themselves. When your CHP friends wanted to participate in these actions, they were not wanted in these actions, and Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu clearly said: "The young people are right to criticize us." • Furthermore, it turns out that 74 percent of the young people who were doing the Trip activities of KODA have voted for CHP in the last election, we voted for CHP, but in these actions we do not want CHP. And I'll tell you one last thing:
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0260par0081	It's not a political party act.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0259par0082	...if these events had happened in 1960, in 70, in 80, what would have happened in the square, I'll leave that in your memory. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0260par0085	But you're talking about 50 years ago.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0261par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0262par0087	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0261par0088	In his Ünal speech, the public opposition has eliminated the main opposition. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0262par0089	Here you go, sir. Two minutes, please...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0263par0090	Sir, it's real, it's real.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0264par0091	Didn't they fire your president? Didn't they fire Mr. Kilicdaroglu?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0265par0092	You get angry when I tell you the truth.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0263par0093	Look, it's real, it's real.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0265par0094	But you get so angry when I tell you the truth.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0266par0095	Let's hear it, folks. Let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0267par0097	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a sentence between the evaluations of Mr. Mahir Ünal, a statement, a definition, a description that sums up all the Taxi Travel events. I thank him for using this definition, and I congratulate him in that way for expressing a different opinion from the Prime Minister. Now, what was the Prime Minister saying? As a result of the travel events, the division described these movements that spread throughout Turkey as the actions of the 3-5 marauder. What did he say next? They're the work of marginal organizations, he said.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0268par0099	He kept some of it out, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0267par0100	Yesterday, a friend of yours, the People's Party of the Republic, said to me, arm in arm with the coupkers in the Zombie Square. But he met with the marginal organizations, the coupgers, the 3-5 marauders, and the Prime Minister's Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister felt the need to negotiate with the coupgers, the marauders, the marginal organisations.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0269par0101	Not the marauders, the activists.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0267par0102	But Mr. Ünal said something, there's social opposition in the Meydans. Mr. Ünal, I congratulate you, there are social opposition in the squares.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0270par0103	Yes, there's a social opposition that you don't represent.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0267par0104	There's public opposition. According to polls, 70 per cent of the social opposition has never voted for a political party...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0271par0105	He voted for CHP, CHP.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0267par0106	...or any political party. There is the survey of Bilgi University, there is the survey of KONDA. Look, Bilgi University, KONDA, not the figures of an anonymous survey where your Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan put it. There's public opposition in the squares. The people who turn to all the authoritarian regimes are afraid of the squares because the squares... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Brings people together who have never been together before. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0272par0112	Didn't you see Kazýşme?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0273par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0274par0114	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0275par0116	Mr. President, you might as well ask Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0276par0117	Mr. President, if you could at least ask us, you'd ask us what's wrong.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0274par0118	To whom do I ask?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0276par0119	So you ask, "Why do you want to speak? "
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0277par0120	So you promise not to tease Mahir Ünal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0278par0122	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Speaker, I'd like to rephrase the fact that the Deputy Speaker of the Group has used my name in a deposition. In 2011, in Tottenham, in England, the British police shot a protestor with a gun, and the great events began, and Cameron used the expression "japulcu" as a result of the destruction, and in literature, the people who did the work of burning were often called "tapulcu." The Prime Minister clearly said: "We don't say anything to our citizens, our sincere citizens, who react with environmental sensitivity."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0279par0125	3-5 marauders...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0278par0126	We also apologize for the excessive pepper spray used by the police, but the burners are marauders, he said. Yes, those who burn are marauders, those who want to storm the Prime Minister's Office are marauders. [[Noises from CHP rows]] In America, I approach the White House 500 metres and protest with a penknife. Now, look, when the U.S.-British sample was taken -- extremely -- our police did not use disproportionate force except in a few cases.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0280par0130	How did the dead die?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0278par0131	And while the baton was being used until 1995, see, it was converted into a water and pepper gas intervention in our time when it was used in steel, steel, steel, and steel. Our police insisted that we do not use disproportionate force. You're a congressman, and you have a responsibility. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you tell me, we'll shoot the police...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0281par0134	Nothing's gonna happen, nothing's gonna happen if you pull it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0278par0135	For God's sake, tell the police to stand down and leave no public order, is that what you want? Come out and say it, guys.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0282par0137	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0283par0138	Mr. President, I want a word, too, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0282par0139	Let this be the last time, please, let us not challenge you again.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0283par0141	Let's cut to the chase. Dear friends, Mr. Ünal, you yourself said there was a public opposition in the squares.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0284par0143	Of course I did.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0283par0144	There's public opposition in the squares. This opposition, the people want freedom, don't interfere in my private life. He says, "Don't worry about the dress of the women who got off the boat in Kadıköy." He says, "Don't slander me, you've drunk in the mosque."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0285par0146	Tell me about him, was he drunk? Was it drunk?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0286par0147	There's footage.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0287par0148	Gentlemen, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0288par0149	Look, in the squares...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0289par0150	I don't understand him. Is he saying drink?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0288par0151	No human living within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, whether he belongs to any faith or not, whether he is an atheist or not, will go and drink in a mosque, and no one will do that disrespect.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0290par0153	Come on, I'll show you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0288par0154	Mr. Süleyman Gündüz...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0290par0155	Pass him.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0288par0156	He went to see the muezzin of the mosque.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0290par0157	Come on, Muezini.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0288par0158	He went to see your muezzi, whether it was true or not. The result of this meeting was written in the New Dawn newspaper. There was no drinking here.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0290par0159	Come, here, I'll show you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0288par0160	Our citizens who fled from the violence of the police took refuge in that mosque, but it seems that it was Mr. Prime Minister who had not been able to gain his support from the social opposition in the squares. (CHP cheers) He sought to express his legitimacy, the legitimacy of this violence, but the public is aware of everything.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0290par0161	He knows, you'll see!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0291par0162	Greetings from Kazýşmýmü, hello!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0292par0163	Guys, let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0293par0164	Dear friends, dictators who come with a coup have no power. One day they'll fall, because there's no public support behind it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0294par0165	Just like you did! And you can't come back.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0293par0166	What's dangerous is those who want to take Turkey to an authoritarian regime based on the support of the people behind it, but the nation has noticed everything, and they're going to give it to you in the chest.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0294par0168	When it suits you, it's a bird, it's an ostrich!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0295par0169	Guys, just a second.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0294par0170	You did the same thing to Menderes!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0296par0171	And lastly, I'll tell you what, for those of you who are talking about the front lines of the Justice and Development Party Group, I like a Prime Minister's app, and next term, he doesn't make the front row MPs.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0294par0173	Get over it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0297par0174	Let's go!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0298par0175	Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you. Guys, wait a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0299par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0298par0178	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0299par0179	Mr. Group Vice President has given a false assessment of my public opposition statement. I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0300par0180	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0298par0181	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0299par0184	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if you read a little political science, if you read a little political history...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0301par0185	What do you have to do with political history?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0299par0186	...what public opposition is, what's the center of social opposition, what's the main opposition party, what's the main opposition party's relationship with the center of social opposition, you know that. Yes, we explained the center of social opposition in an interview that we gave to the Hurriyet newspaper about 20 days ago, and we said, "HPP is infecting politics because it's become a base actor because it can't translate social opposition's demands into political language, and it's dangerous for the base to become an actor. Why? Because if you turn anger, hatred, politics, at the center of social opposition, you hide behind the anger of the masses. And that is to do evil to politics and society. That's what we say, and unfortunately, these demonstrations are a problem because the main opposition can't translate social demands into political language. They've agreed to it. Besides, it's at least political ignorance and ulterior motive to say a legitimate government, chosen in the democratic system. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0302par0190	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0303par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0302par0192	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0303par0193	Mr. Ünal said in his speech that the Republican People's Party infected the community. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0302par0194	So, how far is this going to go, sir? [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Wait a second, wait a second... I'm talking to the Deputy Director of the Group, why are you yelling? Don't shout, sir, don't shout. Let me see, let me see what's going on.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0304par0197	You're not interfering as president, you're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0302par0198	I'm interfering with both sides. You guys have to talk, so get up and talk. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0305par0200	Mr. President, why did you ask me this question and not ask Mr. Ünal before me?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0302par0201	No... one: our friends are now...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0305par0202	Look...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0302par0203	Can I have your attention for a second? Our friends said, "That's enough of this discussion."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0306par0205	What friends, your political friends?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0302par0206	So I asked you to let me finish this, and I'll promise you one more, and we'll finish this. At this time of night, people can't stand it anymore. That's why I'm asking you. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0307par0208	Mr. Hamzacebi, I won't answer, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0308par0209	Okay.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0309par0210	If you're tired, let's go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0310par0211	Here you are, ma'am. Here you go. Here you go, ma'am.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0309par0212	What? So if we're tired...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0311par0213	Since we're tired, let's go!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0312par0215	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look now... (Applause from the AK PARTY desks.) Thank you. Now, who brought hatred, hatred, anger, into Turkey's politics? I'm asking you, please think clearly. (EC PARTY RINGS) Please, think clearly. Look, Mr. Ünal made a really good point. Instead of getting a message from around here, instead of understanding this social opposition, isn't it a rally to respond to these rallies, the demonstrations, the protests in the squares of this social opposition? Now, Mr. Prime Minister has applied to the traditional domestic policy strategy: polarizing society.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0313par0220	Guys, shut up.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0312par0221	In his speech at the Kazluşme rally, he led the community to polarize around religion, flag, country and all other values. He's still trying to play the role of the victim in power, but now the squares didn't give him the role, so he took it from him. He's been in power for 11 years, Mr. Prime Minister, and there's a Prime Minister who wants to play a victim to the Republican People's Party, who goes from 1930 to 1940, trying to find examples of history to expose his innocence, to expose his victimism. What the Prime Minister needs to do is listen to them. It is not the approach of anger, nor the approach of hatred, nor the approach of hatred, nor the repair of hearts, nor the taking of hearts, nor the being stubborn, nor the being stubborn with people.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0313par0224	Let's hear it, gentlemen, let's hear it, please...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0312par0225	Now that he's stubborn with the nation, the result of his stubbornness will be liquidation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0314par0228	We thought people would decide that.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0315par0229	What else are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0316par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0236	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the final reading of the motion:
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0316par0237	Mr. President, I want the number of decisions enough, one.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0238	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0316par0239	Wait a minute, I have something to say.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0240	Wait a second...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0316par0241	And the Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0242	I didn't promise you, I voted, please...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0316par0243	...says that killing five citizens is not indiscriminate.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0318par0244	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0245	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0247	Wait a minute, I have something to say.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0248	All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0249	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0250	The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0251	Mr. President, I'm just saying...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0252	I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0320par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0254	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0255	Yes, what is it now?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0256	I'm saying something.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0257	Sit down, sit down first.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0259	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0260	Sit down and tell me what your case is.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0261	No, I'm not.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0317par0262	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0263	Now, the AKP Group Deputy President just said: "Killing five men is not an indiscriminate force. " He says breaking the temples of 15 teenagers is not an indiscriminate power to remove their eyes. Hurting 500 people isn't inopportune...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0321par0264	Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0322par0265	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0319par0266	How do you not interfere with that logic?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0322par0267	None of your business!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0323par0268	They're throwing rocks.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0324par0269	That's taken care of, sir. Have a seat.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0325par0270	How are you not interfering? In addition, the Deputy President of this group violated the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0324par0271	Matter accepted. Now, sit down.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0325par0273	President, just a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0326par0274	Is that even possible? Is that how you do it?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0325par0275	It violated the Constitution. See, according to Article 82 of the Constitution, the MPs can't accept the mandate of the law, but the Deputy President of this group went to the Arabs, went to the Arabs, went to the United States, and the House has no decision.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0327par0276	Mr. Young, please, at this hour...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0326par0277	This can't be happening!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0325par0278	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0327par0279	In any way, you'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0325par0280	I'll tell you. I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0327par0281	But now that you've said something, he's in control, sit down. I didn't promise you anything. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0325par0282	He's giving false information here.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0327par0283	There are two motions on the 5th article, I'm having them read...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0328par0284	Mr. President, let him sit down.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0325par0285	No, I'm not.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0329par0286	There's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0330par0287	Freeloader, please don't do this. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0331par0288	There is. He said there is.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0329par0289	No, he said.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0332par0290	Mr. President, sir, I'm going to look for the number of decisions. You said, there are enough decisions. We didn't hear you say that.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0333par0291	You didn't call, Mr. President. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0334par0292	Just a moment, sir. I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0333par0294	But it's okay.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0335par0295	But, Mr. President, just a second...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0334par0296	The motion is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0333par0298	Who did you ask about the number of decisions?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0334par0299	I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 4 is accepted. [[Noises from CHP rows]] There are two motions on the 5th article, I'm having it read...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0333par0302	Looks like he's really screwed up. Mr. President, how is this possible? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0336par0303	Mr. President, if you don't need it, we'll shoot the clerk. If the need is gone, let our clerk come back. Why don't you ask?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0334par0304	He's free, you know. Sit down, for God's sake.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0333par0305	Mr. President, we want a government worthy of the seriousness of the House. What you're doing is good, it's not the right procedure. You can't operate on your own. There aren't enough decisions there. It says, "There is." You say, "There is."
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0337par0306	There is, there is.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0333par0307	How can there be no such thing? Yeah, this isn't your father's farm. Mr. President, please don't shrink the House!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0309	There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations 5th Amendment. Article 1. We propose and supply to change the declaration of the authority in his joke to..... as available. Müslim Sarı Turgut Dibek Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Muharrem Light Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th Amendment bill on the current Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Halaman S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0339par0323	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0324	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0340par0325	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0341par0326	Motive...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0327	Read the reason. The reason for the bill is to adapt to the EU acquish, to fill the legal gap in the field of systems, payment services and electronic money companies, as well as to define the healthy development of the areas, the definition of the main concepts, rights and obligations and the need to determine investments. The EU directives and the bill for the National Programme of Turkey in 2008 have been submitted on these grounds, as part of the Free movement of Capital and the drafting of the Payment Systems Act as part of Fiscal Services Fasiliars. The EU, however, is no longer paying much attention to Turkey, which is the basis for the arrangements, and unfortunately there is no progress in the talks on the chapters mentioned. Therefore, the bill must be prepared, not by EU directives, but by consideration of Turkey's needs. In addition, when the payment agencies were identified, they were all collected under one item. However, he has been involved in many studies and reports of money laundering through payment agencies in many different ways. The regulations must be adopted in a way that does not lead to money laundering and contains detailed provisions. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0342par0332	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0333	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0343par0334	You know, is there enough to decide?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0335	No, sir, just a second...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0344par0336	No, sir, no.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0337	I didn't say no.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0345par0338	Mr. President, you said no.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0339	There's a discrepancy between the clerks, and we'll vote with the electronic device.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0346par0341	You said no, Mr. President. Why didn't you just ask?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0342	I didn't, no, sir. And you know what I'm saying?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0346par0343	Sir, why didn't you ask the clerk in the previous article, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0344	Please take your seat, sir, please. I've started the vote with the electronic device, so please take your seats.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0346par0346	No, why didn't you ask the clerk in the previous article, that's what I'm asking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0338par0347	I did.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0346par0348	No, sir, you didn't. Did he ask, Mr. Clerk?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0347par0350	He didn't ask.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0346par0351	He didn't ask, he says he didn't ask. Please, it's not your father's farm. He says he didn't ask, he's lying here.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0348par0352	Very good, let's get back to it. Sit down, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0346par0354	What do you mean, sit down? What kind of nonsense is that? You don't ask, you don't ask, you don't write, you run the House with your own head. That's very rude of you. It doesn't suit you, Mr. President, it doesn't suit you! You're lying from there, Mr. President, it's a shame!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit06spe0348par0357	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0348par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 5th article, there was not enough decision-making in the vote of Antalya MP Mehmet Günal and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We will resume the talks of Bill 473. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 473 Ordered Payment and Securities Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations 5th Amendment. Article 1. We propose and supply to change the declaration of the authority in his joke to..... as available. Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0349par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0348par0014	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0350par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0348par0016	Mr. Muharrem Ilk, Erzincan MP. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0351par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you all. Now, law enforcement can apply only when it is necessary to use pepper spray, when they can't find a solution with lighter tools. Law enforcement officers can apply for pepper spray under the principle of proportionality. The pepper spray is not enough to solve the situation facing the armband. Unless a meeting or a demonstration march is legal, as long as it does not involve violence, it does not break the principle of the staff to refrain from using force. In order to distribute illegal meetings or demonstration walks, the rule should not be applied to force. While applying for pepper spray, law enforcement officers must take precautions to prevent third parties in the area from being affected or to be affected at the minimum possible level if that is not possible. In cases of application to pepper spray, health care workers are required to provide medical attention to possible health problems. These are the principles in Europe that we signed. We're supposed to fit in, but we don't seem to fit. Now, according to numbers released by the Medical Room, 7,822 people have applied to public hospitals, private hospitals, medical centers and volunteer infirmarys established, and have been injured. 100 of them suffered head trauma. There are four in Istanbul, six in Ankara, one in Eskişehir. Four people lost their lives, one police officer fell and died. 11 people lost their eyes and one spleen was removed. And right now, there are others who are in bad shape. Now, everyone who comes up here, especially from the ruling wing and from the head of the group, is trying to say what violence is like, how proportionate it is, and when they say it, they're so ambitious that they're CHP people. You're actually saying that they're CHP people, you can kill them. There have been incidents in Erzincan. Now I'm thinking about whether I should tell you or not, because you can eat the head of the governor. The governor was so discreet there -- a young governor who had just begun his mission -- he cooperated with us, kept the police away from the incidents there, and there was no incident because the police were not close. They did the wrong thing on the first day, they got the police close, but then something happened. Now, what did the Governor of Istanbul do? First he disappears, then he shows up, spreads everything, along with a few words he says. They also showed me how to use non-proportionate power. You're saying there's nothing in particular about the marauder. In fact, you are well aware of the meaning of the swordman. You don't know him at all, you know what he means, not those who make a mess, but those who make a mess. People have gathered... you talk as if you've gone to the Travel Park, as if you've taken that psychology from the Travel Park. You didn't go, but you're telling me the information you got from someone, or rather the police there. There is so much love and respect in the Travel Park that no one wants to produce anything. When there was an intervention with the police, when the stones were attempted to be thrown out, the volunteers there would sit as symbols in the tent there, after all the tents were gathered there, so that they would not throw themselves there. What happened? We're going to have a rally there, don't let the rally get in the way. Because you knew there would be too many people there, so the Prime Minister gave orders and you distributed it, and you never felt sorry for the people there, not in the least... but in fact, there's a force against the disproportionate force. The people there didn't use any force, so you pushed them down with all your might, disbanding the people there. And they threw rocks, and they threw sticks. What's he gonna do? I mean, you put so much gas on the guy, you don't see anything, you don't see the congressman. Congressman's a girl. Well, did you ever ask the congressman what he was doing? Even though he told the police he was a congressman, he's cursing the congressman, he's not enough...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0352par0028	What's the congressman doing here?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0351par0029	What do you mean, what's he doing here? What do you mean... you'll never be there? I mean, have you forgotten the past, what you've done? Did we forget what you did in the square when you left? Now, you're in power here, you're gonna come up here, you're gonna tell me everything.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0353par0030	What did they do? What did they do?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0354par0031	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0351par0032	You're such a pacifist, like everything's gonna be fine. I don't believe you anymore!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0353par0033	Don't believe it, don't believe it!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0351par0034	Because you've been doing it like this for 11 years. You've made society this way, you've stretched it out. Even when you were picking up garbagemen, you did it on assignments, you did it on hiring, you always discriminated. Mr. Prime Minister was a sectarian, and while you were doing everything, that's what you made this society. Those boys wanted freedom, but you didn't understand. You've interfered with everything in young people's lives, their sitting, their getting up. If you don't know, you won't understand what freedom is.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0353par0035	You understand too much!
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0351par0036	They wanted freedom, but that's because you opposed it.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0353par0037	Was there love in the Travel Park?
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0351par0038	Maybe. Love doesn't just happen in the sense that you understand. That's what people think when they have something in the back of their head. Love comes from here, from here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, if there's something in the back of his head, that's what he thinks. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit07spe0355par0043	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-06-19sit08spe0355par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of Bill 473. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (June 20, 2013), the decision to discuss other tasks from the commissions with the draft and proposals of the law was made at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
