tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I'm opening the 106-alarm Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. ♪ Y-O-K-L-A-M-A ♪ We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise two congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Ankara MP Levent Gökyk, who asked for a speech due to the May 19th Memorial Youth and Sports Day. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, please be quiet, we can hear our congressman better. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Dear MPs, we celebrated the 94th anniversary of the great journey that began yesterday (May 19th 1919). On May 19, 1919, all our citizens expressed their gratitude to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in all Turkey at the Memorial Youth and Sports Day events. The name of our festival is Ataturk, the Festival of Memorial Youth and Sports. But can we really understand Ataturk and recognize his name in a way worthy of it, my dear friends? May 19, 1919 is an independent and modern Turkey's founding date. May 19th is also the date of the birth of Ataturk. My birth date is May 19, 1919. May 19th is a name for a great transformation and change that leads to all historical developments. Without May 19th, there would be no salvation. If it weren't for May 19th, it wouldn't be an organization. If it weren't for May 19th, there would be no resistance to the occupation. If it weren't for May 19th, the House wouldn't be here, you wouldn't be here. If it weren't for May 19th, there wouldn't be October 29th, there wouldn't be a republic, there wouldn't be a multi-party democracy. Without May 19th, there would be no secularism. Without May 19th, there would be no complete independence. If it weren't for May 19th, we wouldn't be able to say peace in Yurtta, peace in Jihanda. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are once again grateful to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends in the development today from yesterday to today. But while some of us are singing with enthusiasm, some of us are making an extraordinary effort to erase the name of Ataturk. From the moment our Turkey was founded, we are faced with a government that has sold industrial companies in Turkey, which are under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal, all of Turkey's revenues. We're dealing with a government that plunders the Ataturk Forest Farm - the Forest Farm that Ataturk gave us an inheritance. By violating the heritage of Ataturk, we face the power that has carried out a great disrespect for Ataturk. We are faced with a power that wants to wipe out the name of Ataturk. In addition to the principle of peace in the home, we face a power in all foreign countries that has transformed their relationship with our outside neighbors into problems, exports weapons to them and intervenes in their internal affairs. Dear MPs, May 19th is the date of Turkey's enlightenment. This history includes modern democracy, secularism, public sovereignty. Mustafa Kemal and his friends have created citizens from a community of people. Now, where we come from, we're dealing with a power that's trying to make the citizen a nation again. We don't expect you to understand Ataturk, but we all expect you to respect all the principles that Ataturk is doing. Why are you afraid of the name Ataturk? Why do you try to erase it? Yesterday, we didn't see a single member of power among the walking communities. At a celebration in Yerköy, I'm done with the noise of the microphone. Do what you know. He's too bold to say. Against all of our people, who bear the name of Ataturk, the name of the Republic of Turkey, the attacks against Ataturk are growing everywhere. From the views and proposals of the Ministry of National Education, you make it very clear to raise young people around the principle of Ataturk nationalism. The name "Ataturk" comes out of the curriculum. At such a time, we celebrate May 19th. At such a time, the Turkish youth and Turkish nation will surely stand decisively against all mentalitys that want to erase the name of Ataturk. The world has not wiped the name of Ataturk (Ataturk), nor is the erasing of power at all possible. Once again, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, and I salute them all.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İzmir MP Oktay Vural, who wants to talk about the same issue. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge to honor the Memorial Youth and Sports Festival of Ataturk, May 19th. My respects to all of you. Yes, we're having a one-year anniversary of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who came to Samsun on 19 May 1919 and lit a national war fire. May 19th, in fact, was the rise of a national soul, the name of a national awakening. It is May 19th that the Turkish nation's decision to claim its sovereignty and future, to claim it with national will and national struggle. With all the dignity and dignity of our nation, under the leadership of the great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, it is once again the beginning of his return to the historic stage of history with the heroes of the national struggle. May 19th is not only the beginning of the Turkish national liberation movement, but it is the name of the new Turkish state taking its place in the nation's family with modern values. May 19th is the first step and first step in the process that will end in frustration and defeat for the altars that attempt to usurp and destroy Turkish nation's independence and rights of life. May 19th means youth and youth is the future. Turkish youth, Turkish sovereignty and Turkish Republic of Turkey have a separate meaning for young people today and the only and greatest guarantee of tomorrows. Thus, every year the 19th of May is celebrated with the enthusiasm and the right pride of young people who are our future. The idea of the national struggle, which set out from Samsun on that day, became the nation's determination and decision in Amasya, and Erzurum was one in Erzurum. It was united with its sari. It established the Grand National Assembly in Ankara, rejecting all kinds of mandas and protections in Sivas. May 19th is the first day the republic, formed after an relentless battle against seven heves, was sworn in to implement the values of independence, sovereignty and freedom. No doubt the 19th May is the work and trust of the nationalist heroes who do not bow down to persecution, who do not kneel to the tyrant, who do not suck up to captivity, who do not pay the price for surrender, who are raised by the Turkish nation and its heart. May 19th is the most lasting and indiscriminate answer to the chain of imperialism, to its dungeon and to its persecution, to right, to righteousness, to legitimacy, to morality, to faith, and to a blessed resistance. The Turkish nation, who had never lived in captivity, been addicted and guided, stood before seven duvets with an epic objection and a straight face to its own destiny. It's sad that this amazing struggle, that those who try to debrief, dehydrate, to question, to dilute their soul, are so cut off from reality that they can't see that they're falling into the same frame as the occupying desires that we had ninety-four years ago. In addition to making lame excuses for celebrating national holidays, those who create artificially qualified challenges and obstacles should first know that they have lost enough to see the historical heritage of the Turkish nation as insignificant and ordinary. I believe that our beloved nation, who always rejects slavery and does not accept weakness and oppression, will not allow those who choose trial and division as guides by the deep meaning and message of May 19th. Today, when we witness a similar threat and danger from 90 to four years ago, we are confident that Turkish youth will act sensitive, sensitive, alert, and responsible, and our hope is complete. With these thoughts, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk celebrates the Memorial Youth and Sports Day (May 19th) of Ataturk (May 19th) and the Turkish nation, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to all the heroes of the National War period and to all our beloved martyrs, I pray for the grace of God. May God be pleased with them and their dwelling will be paradise. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Vural. On behalf of the government, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Blessed is the Memorial Youth and Sports Day of Ataturk. The holiday was Sunday, but the effects will continue today and tomorrow and the days to come. A week earlier, we continued our celebration of the Memorial Youth and Sports Festival, which was called Ataturk. Hopefully, this consciousness, this excitement, this wave of excitement will continue to feel its effect all over Turkey in the coming days. First, I sincerely thank the highly valued members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for congratulating the nation's Youth and Sports Day. Highly respected lawmakers are a means of celebration unity; the festival is a means of confirming our unity; the festival is a means of unity, unity, and unity. As Hajji Bektas Veli, one of the men of Asia Minor, the festivals are a means of becoming one, a means of being big, a means of being alive. The holiday cheer will increase day by day as we celebrate together. As long as the holiday excitement can be moved together, as long as we can pronounce and live the holiday holidays together, the wave will continue to spread day by day, day by day. In fact, at the very beginning of the words that should be said at the very end, it is impossible to think of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, apart from the Memorial Youth and Sports Day, which he gave to our youth. It is not possible to imagine, imagine, design, and perform a national holiday without Ataturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I would also like to point out that the founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is not possible to separate the Republic of Turkey from the Republic of Turkey, and the Republic of Turkey from Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I don't think that an effort to do so would be made possible by any political community, with its power and opposition and its non-representation in Parliament. This community will be able to refute the barrier seeds of corruption, the seeds of separation between Ataturk (ataturk) and the Republic of Turkey, as this geography refutes any seed of corruption.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0007par0054	God willing, God willing!
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0006par0055	This geography today needs more unity than ever, needs unity, needs solidarity, needs arm in arm. No matter what window we look at in life, the philosophical view, the ideological approach that designs our politics, we all need to be able to sing the same song when it comes to the national excitement and excitement of the holiday days. Because since the country is one state, one nation, one flag, one flag, there's no way to think, imagine, imagine, imagine something beyond that. There's criticism of the opposition, because the format of the holiday celebration has changed, but on the other hand, we need to focus on the way the holiday celebrates today. We were with our young people yesterday. We went out with tens of thousands of colleges and high school boys to the Memorial, and performed our silence in the spiritual presence of Ataturk, and then continued to celebrate the festival with those young people. Eid celebrations throughout Turkey have witnessed a different enthusiasm and excitement. In our 80 counties, tens of thousands of young people, with their moon-star flags, in the streets, in the squares, in schools, in the halls, in shopping malls, in sports events, made our nation feel the thrill of the holiday to the bone. There's really a lot of energy out there. I think we've achieved a good synergy in all of these energies. There used to be official parades at holiday celebrations, public vehicles that we call the gate official. Where there's no tank, where there's no cannon, we didn't really think that the city's newly acquired garbage trucks, newly acquired police cars, the parade of ambulances, and a holiday celebration in which the health department has just joined, was a holiday for the excitement of the Turkish nation, for its desire, for its search. Highly valued lawmakers should not be able to reduce the holiday to a symbolic level; taking the holiday from the symbols should be equipped with ideas that should be pronounced along with its symbols. What happened on May 19, 1919? If there had not been a historic incident on May 19, 1919, what would we be today, where, and how would we be? If we can't get our young people to talk about it, if we can't get them to discuss it, if we can't get them to be understood on the social ground and especially in the younger masses, it'll be a holiday today, tomorrow, but it'll be open to debate the day after tomorrow. We must not allow the spiritual values of this society to be destroyed. I'm one of those people who believes that we need to put this sensitivity on other ground and in other times, all of it. Recently, there was a debate in this country about whether there was a Seyit Corporal or not. ▪ Is it not possible to lift up a 200-pound shell with a human body and drive it into the barrel of the ball? There was an argument in this country. In those days, we should have shown that reaction together. We reacted, we reacted. This land is home to Syed Corporals, this land is home to the Horid Hassans. If we discuss Seyit Corporal today, tomorrow they will open the discussion of Ulabatlı Hassan, and another day they will open the discussion of Sultan Mehmet, was he the Conqueror? Another day, perhaps, did Mustafa Kemal Ataturk go up to Samsun, or not? On what grounds, in what dimension did the World War Illustration take place, and they will continue to argue. We need to get to the root of the soul, spirit; we need to get to the root of the spirit. Anyone who doesn't have a past doesn't have a shot. We need to get back to the past. With generations who don't understand the past century, there's no way we can build the next century, respected lawmakers. We've always expressed it on every surface: we represent the horse whose roots are past. We take our power from the past, our energy from the past, our resources, our branches, our arms, our future light Turkey, and we extend it to the sky to build it. But generations have to understand that. Generations should also remember Mehmet Akif Ersoy, and not forget his work of Safahat. Today, unfortunately, there are some in this country who call the Turkish language that we spoke seventy-five years ago called the old Turkish language; today, unfortunately, there are some who call the Turkish language of Ataturk. Today, generations who don't understand Safahat, who don't understand the language of Nutuk, will, I assure you, in a quarter of a century's time, not understand the verses of the Instrumental March, which are the unique verses of our independence and freedom. We can't condone it, we can't consent to it. More important than parade pictures in stadiums, banners and exchanges in stadiums, is to discuss, share, understand, and agree with our young people, the spirit of May 19th, the excitement, and the historical events that unfolded after May 19th. I'm here on behalf of the government, the most respected MPs, to use our rights from the Civil Code. My views are the opinion of the government of the Republic of Turkey. I want you to know that if it weren't for Çanakkale Kurar, if it hadn't been for 1915, Çanakkale would not have been irrefutable -- possible by force -- on May 19, 1919, he would not have been able to approach the Samsun Tobacco Pier, along with Bandirma Vapur, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, and 19 others accompanying him. If Mustafa Kemal and his friends hadn't gone up to the Samsun Tobacco Pier on May 19, 1919, if the wave hadn't started with the growing struggle for salvation and organization from Samsun, then it would have been possible -- again, that Amasya, Sivas, Erzurum -- would not have been able to hold the congress; then, on April 23, 1920, Ankara would not have been able to gather the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in Ankara, the Great League of Turkey would not have been able to win the 30 August victory, and the Great Liberation won't have been able to sweep the invasion forces from İzmir on September 9, 1920. Had it not been for Gazi Mustafa Kemal Samsun on May 19, 1919 -- most likely our moon-star flag, which had been taken underfoot in İzmir, would not have been drawn to its post for ever. Dear MPs, these feelings are the common feelings of this community, this country, this nation. Not to be divided in the festival, but to be united in the festival; not to walk separately, but to walk arm in arm at the festival; to go out together, and to make your soul at rest in spiritual peace, your conscience at rest forever. We acted with this enthusiasm, we acted with these emotions. Diyarbakır's aunt mingled with Tripoli's horon, and the zings of Şanlıurfa have merged with the zeybeks of the Aegean in the game. This excitement took place in this country yesterday, and I believe that the wave wave from the Black Sea reached south of Turkey, reached east from the north of Turkey, and then the wave wave reached east from the west, and then the flag reached east to the south from the southeast to the north of Anatolia, to the Aegean to the north, to the Marmara, to the Thracian. This enthusiasm is our enthusiasm, this excitement is our excitement. All young people living in 81 provinces must be united in the fact that they are brothers on a holiday. We're prouder this holiday, we're even happier this holiday, our holiday enthusiasm is even stronger. I also expressed in the celebrations that Turkey of Ataturk is the strongest candidate for 2020 Olympic games with the Istanbul brand today. As he founded the Ataturk republic, he took over with his public opinion. Turkey of Ataturk has become a Turkey that pays the last installment of debt to the IMF today and seeks freedom in debtlessness. This is a painting that we should be proud of; this is a painting that we should welcome with enthusiasm.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0008par0063	Explain the other debts, the other debts!
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0006par0064	Turkey of Ataturk is a Turkey that today has improved its tolerance for differences, made democracy even more internal, strengthened freedoms, led by people who believe even more in the rule of law, lived, shared. The statement of Ataturk is on the wall of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If it hadn't been for May 19, 1919, if the Battle of Salvation had not begun, then authority would have been the nation's. The sentence would not have taken its place on this wall. That is the day when sovereignty shall be delivered into the free and unconditional will of the nation. Diyarbakir, Hakkari, Van, Van, Rize, Yabzon, Samsun, Kayseri, Sivas, Muğla, Mersin, Antalya, Antalya, Edirne, Tekirdağ, and Tekirdağ, and Çanakkale, Istanbul, and, of course, the young prince of our 81 provinces, 76 million of our brothers, 76 million of our brothers and sisters, who were represented in the festivals of the Turkish Republic yesterday (May 19th), and of our brothers from the Turkish nation, who were represented by the great excitement of Turkey, and from the Turkish nation of Turkey, and from the Ottoman Empire, and from the Ottoman Empire. I salute you.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0010par0069	This is how well the holiday is described.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0009par0070	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0011par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words, I am celebrating the May 19th Memorial, Youth and Sports Day. Yesterday, all our citizens went out on the streets with Turkish flags all over our country and celebrated this great holiday with great enthusiasm. On this occasion, in the event of this holiday, I honor Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our Great Leader, and all his comrades, all of our martyrs, and express my gratitude to them. Other than that, on Friday, we watched the defence of our Republican People's Party MP Mehmet Haberal. I'm afraid our MPs are in very bad shape. At the coming point, the fact that imprisonment has now turned into an outrage has become a punishment, despite the fact that all the intended cause for the arrest has been fulfilled, the situation is at its destination. Trust in the judiciary is sadly lost. We're looking at a picture with no arrested MPs anywhere in the world. Turkey, unfortunately, is also at an oasis point in this regard. For this reason, the Turkish Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliament...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0012par0079	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I was in Samsun yesterday, and we walked there for four hours to celebrate the Memorial, Youth and Sports Day, May 19, 1919. As the government spokesman said earlier, the applications are completely off-limits. To destroy the national values of this nation, its excitement in the national struggle, unfortunately, today's government is doing a planned exercise. In many places, the celebration of May 19 was banned. I went to the CHP county office there, where the people from the counties called us "Sir, you can't celebrate May 19th, you can't put a wreath." In many places, the trustees and no one attends these memorials. Every year, they try to be forgotten. Here, the August 30th celebrations are being blocked, and the celebration of October 29th Republic Day is being blocked. It's all about, you know, their own kind of...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as I was just listening to the Minister, I had the impression that the Minister of Youth and Sports of a different country was speaking. Mr. Secretary probably doesn't know what's going on in Turkey. He talks about walking arm in arm, but I just want to tell you about something that happened in Bolu. We applied to the governor's office days ago to organize a lighthouse regiment. On the same date, the governor's office put a different program on the same routes just to prevent us from walking with citizens. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary here, through you: does he think such an application is right, Mr. Secretary? Is he planning on warning the governor about this? Should the governors prevent people from attending the holidays, attending the celebrations? Does the government have a verbal directive for the governors not to participate in these festivals? I'd like to know the answer to that.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0014par0091	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0016par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. As we listened to Mr. AKP's spokesman, it was as if we were living in another world. All applications are against the AKP's spirit of May 19th, the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey. While this was going on, there was also a scene of charades under the name of secularism yesterday by the Constitutional Court's President. I strongly condemn Hashim Kılıç, for his attempt to undermine the public's trust in the secular system by violating the forty-two-two-year-old convictions of the Constitutional Court. No Supreme Court judge has the right to such a deviant that will destroy the Republic of Turkey, who has made it a man and made it a judge. Hashim Kılıç must resign as President of the Constitutional Court immediately because he has made it clear that he is not a lawyer, that he cannot be. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0017par0098	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. New...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we had a wonderful May 19th celebration in our Samsun yesterday. This celebration, which began with the morning wreaths, continued until evening with our people, with our people, with our nation. We had some wonderful celebrations in Republic Square. However, from many parts of our country, from Skopkudar to Antalya, our friends who came to Samsun, and walked under the name "alternative march" also took that march on the route shown to them. We were there until evening in Samsun, and I want to express that there were no problems and that we celebrated the May 19th Day of Youth and Sports with our people. We didn't get a chance to welcome our deputies who came to Samsun yesterday because the celebrations in our area continued beautifully. Congratulations again on your May 19th Youth and Sports Day. Hopefully, he'll grow up and continue with the public.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0017par0103	Thank you, Mr. New. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0019par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. I regret to inform Mr. Minister that the celebrations of Ataturk's Memorial Youth and Sports Day, which have been passed down in many of our provinces and provinces, have also been largely dull and symbolic, and that the governors of this country, their governors, and especially the mayors of the AKP, have not attended. I would like to say that I also condemn executives who do not participate in these celebrations on purpose. The Minister's speech here is just a speech to save the day. Our citizens are deeply disturbed by these celebrations. I urge the government to take more serious measures and do what is necessary, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0020par0109	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0021par0112	Mr. President, thank you. At the stadiums, at the stadiums, the blocking of Ataturk's Memorial, Youth and Sports Day, my ministers, I warn you, is causing a dissolution in Turkey, there is a dissolution. I've been to both holidays, on one side, on the other, on the other. We're not supposed to make other people. Our children were in Burdur, in the stadium... we celebrated in a small place in front of the governorship, and those children cried. The protokol did not follow us, the judo were not followed, the athletes were not followed. There's only 300 people we've seen that beauty. If we had done it at the stadium, maybe tens of thousands would have seen it, Turkey would have seen it. So in order to avoid this dissolution, I would like to ask you to give up this job, to celebrate this holiday together in stadiums and in fields.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0020par0114	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0022par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has spoken of unity, brotherhood, solidarity, particularly empathy for the holidays, but unfortunately, we don't see it at any of these holiday processes, and we live everywhere. For example, in a province such as Istanbul yesterday, it would be wise for Mr. Secretary to investigate who put a wreath in the Ataturk monument in Istanbul yesterday in Istanbul, a memorial that was taken into consideration by a member of the Istanbul province, whose soul had been lost as a matter of fact. In addition, a sentence like this begins from both the governors and the mayors: "Mehmetçük..." "There is talk of a Mehmetchik" who fights these battles. Of course, the role of Mehmetchik is important, but they have no statement about Ataturk. I would like to point out here that an understanding that made him forget the leadership of Ataturk, which destroyed him, was dominated. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0023par0121	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0024par0124	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, my proposal was that today's picture shows that our people are always ready to celebrate May 19th Youth and Sports Day, which is a common fact. But even though the political power that runs Turkey today, unfortunately, seems to agree with this topic in words, perhaps in sentences, it is impossible to say that you are with him sincerely. And as proof of that, we've become convinced that Mr. Prime Minister has shown a special interest in being away from here, including May 19th -- which was already outside Turkey yesterday, as well as on May 19th. I'd like to point out that this is a very serious mistake and that it shows the intent of political power. The second point is that today at least 500 people -- or about 500 journalists -- are unemployed, referring to the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister here. Mr. Prime Minister, in the United States of America...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. Sour. And finally, Mr. Tallening...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0026par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, a man tells a lie, knows for himself that the lie he tells is a lie, and it doesn't hurt much, but if he believes it and believes it's not a lie, he's a threat to society. Today, when we look at the government's practices and the conversations of some of our friends, the greatest signs of hypocrisy are shown. So this is actually the biggest blow to the Turkish nation's unity, its integrity. Therefore, everyone should remember that what they say should be parallel to what they do and that Turkey should not try to mislead the Grand National Assembly. We need to learn a lesson from this, and we need to try to navigate the Great National Assembly of Turkey with the right, honest, internalized talks that people will come to. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0027par0134	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Dear Silver...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0028par0137	Thank you. I'd like to remind you again about putting wreaths on this holiday. Why does any branch of a main opposition party need to make a statement to put a wreath on the holiday before the festival? What's its purpose? It's a ridiculous practice, and it's an ulterior motive. It's not considered good at all. I'm reporting you to the citizen.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. Silver. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0030par0142	Did you give it to him because of the bullying, sir?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0031par0144	Mr. President, the most respected lawmakers have been asked to re-interview due to criticism and questions.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0030par0145	Did you give it to him as an act of sarcasm?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0031par0146	Not because of teasing, but because of criticism and questions. There are direct questions. I salute your delegation again. Very respected lawmakers, we can't give each other a test of intimacy. There's no need to test each other for intimacy. You love the Republic of Turkey, and if others don't, the Republic of Turkey won't win anything. You love the Turkish nation, and if others don't, the Turkish nation won't win anything. If you love Ataturk, if others do not love him, he will gain nothing from it. If we all love the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish nation, Ataturk, all 76 million of our people with the same feeling, the same enthusiasm, the same sincerity, and we all believe in it, then Turkey, Turkey, the Turkish nation, and Ataturk will win a lot. First of all, I return this accusation of hypocrisy, which I take unsaid. If our president approves, I request and request that he be removed from the transcripts. Such approaches are not right. No one has the right to test others in such matters, nor does he have the authority, nor does anyone have the right to say such a thing. Everyone has to believe in each other's sincerity in this matter. We have to believe in each other's sincerity when it comes to national and spiritual matters. We'll be stronger if we believe. We'll be stronger if we believe. If we believe in it, we'll have more and more chance of mobileizing our forces against the internal and non-violent. Very respected lawmakers, if there were some unpleasant circumstances during the holiday celebrations, in the course of some administrative savings, within a few years, I believe they would be in order, but if the government has an order in this direction, a directive, a summary, there's no need to do so. Like I said, we should walk together, we should rock together, we should have fun together. Outsiders shouldn't see us running into each other on a national day. The foreign ministers should not think that we make even national holidays a matter of political abuse. This enthusiasm, this excitement, the wave will grow. He left the stadiums, but there's really a lot of enthusiasm in the halls, in the squares, in the streets, on the beaches, on the hiking trails, all over Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0032par0152	What a rush!
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0031par0153	What I'm asking is that after a few days, after leaving today's feeling, take a look at the photos the agencies have taken. Everyone has the opportunity to participate. The opportunity for NGOs to participate has arisen. The municipalities were able to participate. It's a holiday. Congratulations again on our holiday.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0033par0156	What do you say to gas eaters, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0034par0157	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0035par0160	What I say is not a test of loving Ataturk. What I'm saying is that the orator's or the government's practices differ from what they say they do. If the government has fully grasped the spirit of May 19 and the spirit of national struggle, if they are talking about full independence, the unbreakable integrity of the country and the nation, that sovereignty belongs to the unconditional nation, these are not their practices today, these are not their arguments, these are not the ones that exist in public. I repeat here, without hesitation, before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: there are signs of hypocrisy, no matter who gets it.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0036par0161	You're the hypocrite!
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0037par0162	You've got the signs of hypocrisy!
tbmm-2013-05-20sit01spe0038par0163	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Potatoes are a plant native to South America. He came to our country about 150 years ago from the Caucasus and to our western regions from Europe. Today, almost everywhere in our country, especially in East and Central Anatolia, is widely produced. As it can easily adapt to various climate conditions, it can be brought up economically in many parts of the world. Its lumps contain important nutrients, particularly carbohydrates, proteins, and various vitamins in starch. It has an important share in human feeding after grain. Because of its cheapness, its efficiency over the unit area, its high food value, its digestion, its use in various ways, and its growth in all kinds of climates, it is now being raised and consumed by almost all world countries. Potatoes can grow almost anywhere in the world because they adapt quickly to climate conditions. TECHNIC data shows that 4.6 million tonnes of potatoes are expected to be produced in Turkey this year. As of 2010, some 310,000 tonnes of potatoes are produced in Bolu Province. Bolu is among the most produced cities in Turkey with Niğde, Nevşehir, Afyonkarahisar. As it is known, on 01/12/2011, the Book of Plant Passports was adopted. With this regulation, it aims to register our farmers and get them into the tax system. The regulation also stipulates that cooking potato production can be planted every three years, and potato production of seeds every four years. Which means, by 2015, the potato maker won't be able to make a penny off the potato. Our farmers, who make their living producing potatoes, have already been hit by this regulation, as well as by the fact that their entry costs are too high. Because of their debt, farmers sell their product below its value, causing prices to break. Again, a major problem for our manufacturers is the height of production costs. One of the key factors that increases the cost of producing potatoes is the high price of electricity used in irrigation. The permanent solution to this issue has not yet been reached. The issue of storage remains an important problem for our manufacturer. In September, in our country, the amount of product is at its highest. A potato containing 70-80 per cent water in its system must be stored under special conditions. The manufacturer, who does not want to store his potato under inadequate and primitive circumstances, has to sell it at a low price. The producer's victimism in this issue continues to increase. I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to establish the problems of the potato plant produced in our province of Bolu in general, so that measures can be taken to put an end to the troubles and to establish the efforts to address the problems of our farmers. [[Bolu]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 5) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Edirne]] 7) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Malatya]] 22) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 23) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 24) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is hard to ignore that one of the key factors in human beings' ability to live a healthy and peaceful life is the socioeconomic factor. The happy and peaceful life of society is one-on-one related to the happiness of individuals. One of the key elements of the peace and protection of society is the presence of law enforcement forces and their successful work. However, members of law enforcement tasked with maintaining the peace of society also have material, spiritual, human concerns and problems, as do other people who form society. The professional fatigue share of members of the Police General Directorate, which constitutes law enforcement forces, and members of the General Staff of the gendarmes, is higher than that of many other professions. The problems their professions impose on them are often fixed by the sad events that have often accumulated in their subconscious to the point of explosion. With all due respect to the opening of Parliamentary research on the quality of socioeconomic life of law enforcement forces, the "psychological and social entity" of our law enforcement forces, to rid them of their psychological and economic problems, to investigate and address the issues of so-called so-called, psychological, economic, and occupational issues, the 98th and TBMM Institution of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105. The professional fatigue share of law enforcement members and members of the gendarmes, who are responsible for the public's presence, is higher than that of many other occupational organisations. Like other people, law enforcement members, who should be on the lookout for crime and criminals, have financial, spiritual, human concerns and problems. They also experience severe professional problems as well as problems. It's consistent with the many times that their professions have been uploaded to them, and they've been building up behind the subconscious, and they've come to the point of explosion. Man is described as "a psychological and social entity. " The law enforcement forces enter vocational schools in the process of receiving vocational schools in which they are educated before they begin their professional lives, giving examinations on matters that are part of the physical and national education curriculum. Thus, they begin their professional lives without psychological tests or measurements as they enter the schools where they can study for their professional lives. They are experiencing depression and similar discomforts in the face of problems that arise in their future careers. In addition to these disorders, events in the normal course of life continue to have a negative effect on their moods. When their family problems and other social problems are added to them by heavy work paces, law enforcement forces strive to carry out their duties under heavy pressure. Heavy-duty conditions, lacks of equity, and the dire events they face in their professions are the most important pressures of police and gendarmes on social and psychological issues. Law enforcement forces have to deal every day with events most people have never seen or rarely seen in their lives. Events that human psychology most of the time can't handle are occupational norms for law enforcement. It's because of these events that law enforcement members look at life differently than other people, and they develop doubts and doubts. In order for our law enforcement forces to be free of psychological problems, to act more calmly and calmly in the intervention of social and other criminal matters, it is important to compare the problems of law enforcement with similar professional groups to the study of social, economic and professional problems and the way to find solutions and solutions. 1) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 5) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] 7) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 11) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7 km to the village of Ergenukümü, Kozan district of Adana. In an effort to investigate the explosion of the cover of the distant Gökdere Bridge Dam Derivation Tunnel, the Constitution's 98th and 105th anniversary of the Constitution's 98th and Institution to determine those who neglected it. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. With all due respect. On February 24, 2012, 7 km to the village of Ergenömümü in Kozan district of Adana. Many workers lost their lives as a result of the explosion of the distant Tower Bridge Dam Derivation Tunnel cover. During the explosion at the Gökdere Bridge Dam, which began construction in 2009 and was expected to start production in 2012, 80 million cubic metres of water were found in the dam, and after the explosion, 6,000 cubic metres of water poured into the skybed per second. That's 6 tons per second, 3,600 tons of water per minute. These figures are remarkable to show the extent of the disaster. The families of the workers who lost their lives claimed that the cracks on the dam cover were noticed long before the incident, but there was no precaution to seal the cracks. Moreover, the allegations include the opening of dam doors due to cracks and the opening under the lids trying to close with sandbags. In particular, the project is intended by employees in production, control and security processes, and by firms and authorities who have taken over the work mentioned: 4) He has a security flaw and many other flaws that will arise when the incident is cleared up. In light of this data, serious questions have been raised in the construction of the Gökdere Bridge Dam, which belongs to a private company, but there has been no statement from the Ministry to satisfy the question marks. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has pointed out that the inspections are not being conducted due to the halt of Water Construction Control Services by the State Department. This statement presented a non-lawyer, illegitimate approach, which had an increasing effect on doubts. As it is known, regulations are prepared by the administration in accordance with the law. It's the law that counts. A mistrial of regulations by the State's Office cannot justify the failure of the law's mandate and responsibilities. The Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures (TMMOB), which determined the situation, has decided to stop the execution of the regulation, stating that the DSI did not prevent the DSI from using its control authority, as long as Law 6200 is in effect, is obliged to oversee the structures of the DSI. According to TMMOB, the disaster at the Gökdere Bridge Dam was not caused by a legal gap born with the cancellation of the regulation, but by the fact that the DSI had failed to carry out its duties as a supervisor. According to the preliminary report of the Adana Chamber of Civil Engineers, the start of flooding the body before the dam is completed, continuing to work in the mansap part of the dam and in the tunnel, and the lack of adequate security measures has taken the workers' losses in the event of the accident. The report states that concrete structures supporting the mechanical tunnel cover have been severed, and the back door block concrete has not been built. In addition to these information, as dam construction began, environmental organisations and NGOs were ignored, and sociological dimensions of the incident were neglected from the beginning. As the dam was built, a forested area was destroyed, the balance of natural life was not maintained. Concerning the explosion at the Sky Bridge Dam, questions of those who have lost relatives and NGOs remain unanswered. The bodies of a large number of workers who have died, except for three, have not yet been found. It is among the allegations that three bodies have been found and the search has lost speed. Therefore, it is vital that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and the Civil Code, should be opened in order to determine those who have been neglected in private and public spaces. 1) Osman Faruk Logogoğlu [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[Niğde]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Edirne]] [[Antalya]] 12) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 14) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 17) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 18) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 19) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion to withdraw the motion for the geneorization, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (11/27) We withdraw our signatures from Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's Proclamation Regarding Opening a Gensor on Prime Minister, confirming the privatisation of Ankara MP Levent Gök and 47 lawmakers with a High Value of Capital Gas Disposal Corporation. [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] 10) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] 12) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] 27) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Hatay]] 29) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] 30) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Artvin]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Hatay]] 36) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 37) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Mersin]] [[Let's go.]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ardahan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 46) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 47) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] The gene motion has been returned and has been taken off the agenda. I'm taking a ten-minute break. Closing Time: 15.01
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0038par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. Since the primary Gensoru Pregnosis (11/27) in the first part of this section has been taken back and removed from the agenda, we are starting to consider some buildings that have been damaged until the other earthquake occurred on 9/11/2011, where the people have not been warned to enter dangerous buildings in the province, where there are no necessary measures related to public buildings in the province, and that the Turkish Penal Code of No. 5237 has been launched against the Turkish Penal Code 25/10/2011. The motion for a parliamentary investigation has been read and published by the Council of Ministers in the 102nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 9/5/2013. That's why I'm not re-reading the motion for investigation. This meeting will be promised, respectively, to the first signator, or to another signee, three members on behalf of their individuals, and the Minister, who has been asked to be investigated last. They've been talking for ten minutes. Now, I read the names of the members of parliament who have been mentioned: Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal on behalf of his people, Kütahya MP Alim Izım, Van MP Mustafa Bilici; Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay who has been asked to open an investigation into him. The first statement now belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0039par0013	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have a request in our province to investigate the Parliament for Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay, who we believe has been neglected by the death of many of our citizens, as a result of the failure to take the necessary precautions until the second earthquake occurred on November 9, 2011, following the earthquake on 23rd 2011. I've made a commitment to that. But first, in the 94th year of May 19th, which we understood yesterday, I took the occasion to celebrate our Memorial Youth and Sports Day. On May 19th, I go to Samsun and honor Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave us these days. Dear friends, as you know, there was a 7.1 earthquake in Van province on October 23, 2011. As soon as the earthquake heard of the deaths of dozens of our people, the entire country had taken on a deep law, while the disaster-losing citizens of Van had begun the campaign. The Turkish people, rescue crews, doctors, nurses, engineers, began to flow with emergency relief teams into the van, mobilising food, clothing, heating tools needed by all the Anatolians. Again, cash relief campaigns had been launched to rebuild Van. Again, the president of the Turkish Association of Architecture Engineers, which, together with many NGOs, has not even been responded to the Turkish Union of Engineers, who has sent architects and engineers to Van Governor, who want to go to Van to support damage detection in order to reduce the destruction of the disaster. Again, the President of the Department of Civil Engineers Van has requested support for the damage assessment study, and the governor's office has rejected this request. On the one hand, the rescue efforts continue, and the whole country has a bitter joy for each survivor, not leaving their TVs to watch the footage of the fresh survivors from under the rubble. The van is shaken by aftershocks, the buildings that are badly damaged are destroyed by aftershocks, the damaged areas, the cracks are getting deeper, the people of Van don't know if they can enter their homes, they're desperate, they're praying, they're praying, they're praying, they're waiting. So, in the meantime, what was the government doing? On the one hand, rescue teams are trying to move the wounded out of the wreckage, trying to move them to hospitals, giving the earthquake victims hot soup, doing a lot of things, of course, because that's what the government has to do that day. The aftershocks continue, the wounds are tried to heal, but they're not enough. It's not enough: 16 days after the first earthquake, on November 9, 2011, another earthquake of 5.7 magnitude occurs. In this earthquake, the hotel, 18 buildings, and 39 people are apparently dying. The first person responsible for the death of 39 lives is the governor of Van, a state that has not taken sufficient measures. It is that according to the 9th article of the State Administration Law, the 30th article of the State Special Administration Act, the 39th article of the Emancipation Act, the Governor of the Court of Emergency Aid and Planning, according to Articless 4 and 6± of the AFAD Law, and Articles 18± of the AFAD Law. The governor of Van, by failing to fully carry out those duties imposed on him by the legal arrangements, has caused the lives of these people to be lost, not to determine where people will live 16 days after the first earthquake, not to identify the dangerous places where people will or will not live, not to warn the public about them, not to warn the people of what was dangerous after the first earthquake; in this context, not to inform the people that they will not be able to live in the Bayram Hotel and other destroyed buildings. Clearly, the governor's situation here is a criminal offense involving punishment. However, as the governor of Van did not perform the duties imposed by the law, although it has been expressed by scientists and engineers that the Van (Van) is a very risky region, shouldn't there be an sanction for a national TV broadcast that shows that hotels are safe, that they can stay in hotels? Along with the governor, the AFAD officials must be responsible for the loss of their lives in the buildings that were destroyed in the second earthquake and in the Bajram Hotel, where 24 people lost their lives. Besides, there is Erdogan Bayraktar, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, who said six days after the first earthquake, six days after the first great destruction of Van. There will be no more earthquakes where there was a great earthquake. Today, Van Central and Ercish are the most reliable areas because the fault line has been broken, its energy drained. It says, "Do not enter heavily damaged buildings, do not approach ruined buildings, but other buildings can be entered." Ten days after this statement, we lose 39 people entering those buildings. Mr. President, members of parliament, Mr. Bashir Atalay is in charge of the AFAD (AFAD) during the earthquake, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the crisis co-ordination. He's responsible for all the negligence and flaws I've described upstairs, and we believe that responsibility should be investigated. Dear friends, in a trial involving the Bayram Hotel, which was destroyed in the Van earthquake, the names of our 24 people who died in the indictment are mentioned in the single chair of the accused, the name of Tevfik Bajram. So after such negligence, after such irresponsibility, not one public official has ever been sued, and these public officials have never been known to do their duty. Therefore, if this investigation is launched against the Minister, at least the actions of other public officials will be revealed. Dear friends, I'm going to read the verdict of an Italian court, and I'm going to tell you about it. An earthquake occurred in one part of Italy, it says: despite the six-month backgrounds, guaranteeing that there is no risk of earthquakes to the people of the region, not predicting the earthquake, the earthquake, the earthquake committee is sentenced to six years in prison because it causes multiple deaths and injury, public authorities are sentenced to six years in prison and are banned from public duties to prevent the deaths of others in the future. Think about it, an earthquake occurs in Italy. All public officials there are sentenced to six years for taking the necessary precautions and not warning, and we don't even need to investigate one of the public officials. Besides, it's not just for the Van earthquake. I don't think I've ever heard of a single investigation in Turkey, as if public officials didn't do anything wrong. Dear friends, I've told you about the situation in the trial of 24 people who died at the Bayram Hotel, only Bayram. Now, if we don't want our people to lose their lives in the future because of the irresponsibility of those responsible, I wish you'd vote yes, and at least give some of them a chance to judge themselves in their own conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0040par0025	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. On behalf of him, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0041par0029	Thank you, dear President. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Suat Bey, the representative of the government, said, "If there is an arrangement regarding the holidays, we will correct these arrangements again." Yes, so since they have no knowledge of the festivals available, I, the opposition MP, give information to the government representative here: under the regulations published on May 5, 2012 in Official Gazette No. 28283, I hereby submit this regulation regarding national and official holidays and local liberation days, Ataturk days and celebrations in the days of history. Since a government representative has no knowledge of this regulation, if possible, based on this regulation that I gave in the Official Gazette, I would like to request that this regulation be changed immediately, without recrimination between citizens, as well as the festivals be fused, the reconciliation, the reunion, and the day of celebration together. There are no laws in our laws concerning the earthquake, in our Constitution, in the regulations, that are quite comfortable, that give us a gap in the matter. But where does the void come from? The void is born in practice. The void is born in the government. The gap is born in public officials. Of course, the only reason that this gap is born is that I think there's merits, there's political favor, there's money, there's bribes, there's whatever you're looking for, so you've got somebody here, you've got this, you've got this, not that you've got this. Even though there are no gaps in our subject, the reasons for our citizen's life at risk without implementing the existing legislation can only be due to what I say. Other than that, I don't think it's possible that there's a problem with public officials if they're implementing the legal arrangements that really exist. Again, right now, there are large 25-30-story buildings built in major cities. I told the minister about these things that there are no provisions in the zoning law on your building so high, there are no rules in the existing regulations. What legislation do you give the building permit on over 25 floors, based on which buildings you gave it to? The answer is: "Yes, there is no legal regulation on this issue, there is no regulation on it, but each municipality has its own 25-story building regulations, and everyone gives its own name." In this sense, the government and its public officials and the municipality have a chaos of these large, high-rise buildings. This mess needs to be stopped as soon as possible, which puts our citizen's right to live in a healthy environment in the future. While our citizen was assisting with the Van earthquake, government officials said: "Aggregate assistance goes to terrorism, terror is being helped." • They were obstructing the citizen's collection of aid, and for this reason the government, which prevents the aid of the citizens, helps terrorism itself today. So, aid to the citizen from this angle has been blocked by terrorism. What happened in the earthquakes? At that time, 160 tents were set on fire, and 12 of our citizens were burned to death. In that sense, did we give a really good test at the Van earthquake? In fact, we were late in the first 24 hours. When we looked at it this way, the earthquake was an opportunity for some in Van. Opportunity for who? It's really been an opportunity for contractors in close dialogue with political power, but there's also been a distinction between citizens: those who are illegitimate and those who are not. We have citizens who are illegitimate and have no title, and even though those citizens have immovable property, they have not been allowed to benefit from the opportunities that the owner of the movers have taken advantage of. From that point of view, there was a distinction between citizens. Of course, we've always been told that we need the 1999 earthquake, the Van earthquake, the Kütahya Simav earthquake, was taught by the political power. But, of course, in the 1999 earthquake, the previous governments' faults, flaws, faults, but in all the following earthquakes, the government has a flaw in the victimization of our citizens. Of course, here, this is a congressional investigation. However, a parliamentary investigation is one of the mechanisms that oversees the government. Parliamentary investigations have reached its goal in parliamentary systems, where the majority of Parliament is not in the hands of political power. At least it has a practical use for self-control in order for the government to sort itself out. However, in parliamentary systems where the majority of government is in the hands of a political power -- here, we see the state of parliament quite seriously -- it is not taken seriously, it will be rejected by the number of fingers. It is not taken very seriously because of its understanding. Anyway, I'll give you a practical example of the fact that it wasn't taken seriously: this motion for a parliamentary investigation was filed on April 2, 2013. On April 2, 2013, he was appointed President on May 7, 2013. However, so far, there are only ten or fifteen days between the date of the petition and the arrival of the President and the arrival of the General Assembly. When we look at this technically: the date of the petition is April 2, 2013, and the date of its arrival with the General Assembly is May 20, 2013. From May 20, 2013 to Monday. So, what's Monday for? It's being brought in for the kidnapping of public knowledge, information. If the citizen has the right to oversee Parliament, what will he do with it? But Congress will do it through television. With Parliament's television on the day it's off, the day it's not aired, it really means that the citizen's right to learn, the right to information has been blocked in some way. What happened to participation in democracies, knowledge, right to learn, transparency? They're easy to get away from. Yes, after the earthquake on October 23rd, the citizens were unable to enter their homes, and after they were unable to enter, the government authorities were then, sir, depressed, drained of energy. From now on, the houses that are not destroyed are safe... with this expression, this expression... who will the citizen believe after God? The government believes in the authorities, believes in the state. And they believed, they entered their homes, 12 of our citizens were killed in the earthquake after that. Of course, government officials, governors and mayors should be responsible for endangering general security by the collapse of the building, but so far, as in the 99 earthquake, the bill was cut to contractors, and the bill at the Van earthquake was still on the contractors. In fact, the person to be billed is the public officials; the minister, the governor, the governor, the mayor, the officers and officials of science, but the view we can see is solely and solely responsible for the contractor. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's not enough in terms of the contractor's responsibility. In every law-enforcement country, public officials have to answer. This parliamentary investigation has also been brought up to account for the officers. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0042par0044	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0043par0048	Mr. President, I have taken the oath of the Republican People's Party's Party's Group to express the opinion of the National Movement Party Group on the motion on 7 May 2013 to investigate Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, on the grounds that the first earthquake in our province on 23 October 2011 and the second earthquake on 9 November 2011 did not heed the necessary measures. On this occasion, I would like to thank all citizens who have died in both the Van earthquake and other natural disasters once again, by God's mercy, and by the help of all public officials, civil society organizations, and especially our citizens, who have worked hard to perform their duty in these earthquakes. I pray to God that these sufferings will not happen again. Dear MPs, any transactions related to natural disasters as noted have been given to Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay, who is in the area of responsibility and whose short name is AFAD, President of the Disaster and Emergency Management. This issue has been redacted by the Law Against the Agency and Missions of Disaster and Emergency Management, dated 29 May 2009, and has been re-established by the Prime Minister's Office of Disaster and Emergency Management to conduct services related to civil defence and disaster. In Article 1 of the Law, the Prime Minister can use his powers regarding the presidency through a minister. In this regard, the activities of the Vice Prime Minister Beşir Atalay. This law includes the taking of necessary measures to ensure that disaster and civil defence services can be carried out effectively at the country's level, and the preparation and harm reduction before the events take place, and co-ordinating and implementing policies in these matters among institutions and institutions that carry out the work of intervention and improvements that will be carried out during the event. Thus, any coordination regarding natural disasters is carried out in the minister's area of responsibility. The second earthquake in our province of Van, which was not properly used in the time of the law, suggests that the loss of 39 of our people, including 24/4 of them at Bayram Hotel, was a result of some negligence, because it is stated that even though it was known that the hotel was damaged in the first earthquake, people were allowed to enter this building, it meant that the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the AFAD would not be able to perform his duty in this process. We find it very important that the motion was brought to the Parliament's agenda so that similar neglects or flaws like the one that often occur in our country will not occur again and the necessary measures can be taken on time, and we also thank the friends who have worked so hard to bring such a subject back to Turkey's agenda and to discuss it. Because so far, the government has taken such short-term measures, satisfied with such measures, failed to manage such crises well, and could not quickly prevent the loss of their lives. On the other hand, the government aims to achieve political and economic gains by making the services and state opportunities that should be offered to our citizens by relevant government units in the disasters as a blessing to our citizens. For example, in the Simav earthquake on 19 May 2011, special vehicles, such as tents, blankets, food, and so on, were distributed before the election, such as tents, blankets, food, and so on, with party emblems, with AKP propaganda, and it was not stopped from receiving political gains from here. While people were struggling for lives and possessions, the fact that AKP was concerned about voting hurt their conscience and hurt our people. Similar examples have also happened, unfortunately, in Van. And in many other habitats, where natural disasters took place. Hopefully, this will never happen again. In addition to the negligence in this motion to investigate, which led to the loss of our people's lives, we feel that other problems are useful under the scope of this investigation. For example, a series of serious injustices and irregularities must be answered by investigating the tenders, productions and distribution of permanent dwellings made through the earthquake zones through TOKI. The fact that the rights holders were not even allowed to evaluate their legal rights and that they were forced to live through TOKİ has also led to many new sacrifices. By using long-term loans, many of our citizens have been victimised by the government's almost political and economic rant practices, while loans made by the TOKI may be far less likely to allow our citizens to own a business or a dwelling. Different price practices in earthquake sites have led to additional payments to some right-owners, and many such practices have raised different questions in the minds of our citizens. For example, in the same year's five-month intervals of Simav and Van earthquakes, there were significant price differences, even though they were the same size and properties in houses built by TOKI. On top of that, more expensive dwellings were later asked to be paid by some broker companies after the handover was handed over. From time to time, we've brought this to the agenda of our Parliament and we've delivered it to the concerned ministers, but it's still a problem that hasn't been solved. Now, when these tenders are given, when the contracts are signed, they're given tenders without proper reviews, but these tenders are transferred to someone so that the hot atmosphere of that disaster can be built immediately without inspection and then I've lost them. It's an indication of the weakness of our state if there are other companies applying for additional payments to relevant authorities. Therefore, this must be examined. There have been many other problems like this, and it's still happening. For example, the housing costs in the Simav dwellings ranged from 60,000 to 80,000 euros, while the same properties were made at less prices in Van. The reason for this has so far been unexplained. Hence, it is beneficial for such matters to be brought up again. These mortgage payments, which are due for refunds these days, are too heavy to be paid back by many of our citizens. Circumstances have changed. After two years, it's time to pay back now, but my citizen lost his job, his business was destroyed, the business had to leave the workplace, but he signed on that day in order to have a dwelling that he had to put his head to, and I want a dwelling. The conditions he calls a dwelling are too heavy to handle today. Therefore, it is imperative that the government reassess the issue in detail and, under the scope of this investigation, if the Supreme Assembly approves, they should be re-examined. On the other hand, the charges for public officials working in Simav's earthquake have strengthened suspicion that the government and especially the responsible minister have discriminated between the two regions, even though all applications are not paid despite official applications, and on the other side, they are not paid to assess damage or even how many people will work. Dear lawmakers, this is just one of the wrong policies the government has implemented so far. I feel that many issues, especially the Syrian policy and the policy of opening, must be reassessed because of the minister's responsibility, and I salute you all again with the thought that this parliamentary inquiry motion is in place.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0044par0059	Thank you, Mr. Light. Van MP Mustafa Bilici. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0045par0063	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the motion to conduct an ongoing parliamentary investigation. I salute your committee. On October 23, 2011 and November 9, 2011, we experienced two major earthquakes in Van. After these earthquakes, 644 of our citizens were killed, 252 of our citizens were removed from the wreckage alive. There have been over 10,000 large aftershocks, small aftershocks. From here, once again, I ask God's mercy to my beloved citizens who died in the earthquake. May their place be in heaven. Immediately after the October 23rd earthquake, in the first twenty minutes, in the van, and in the first hour, in Ercish. As a result of the call, several teams and equipment have reached our district of Van and Ercish within the first two hours. 1,677 people injured in the earthquake were transferred to the nearest health care institutions by road and air. According to disaster data, the energy produced by the earthquake is equivalent to 37 atomic bombs thrown at Hiroshima. From the early days of the earthquake, 75,000 tents were sent to our province to meet the need for temporary housing, tent cities were formed, and immediately afterwards, these containers were built to create container cities, and the substructure of 30,000 containers was completed, despite difficult conditions. We have about 175 thousand people in these container cities. This also means that new cities have been created, with populations that are larger than about 40 cities in Turkey. Dear friends, about 170 million electricity bills from our citizens in tent and container cities have been paid by our government. 36,000 of our citizens were temporarily invited to other cities. Our farmers, whose livestock were destroyed, were given the same living animals, and again, by our government, the food, the agriculture ministry, to support our farmer for 65 million euros in food and food, were provided with the name of 3,650 animal shelters. Dear friends, about 50 million lira grants have been provided for 40,000 dwellings for less damaged dwellings. Technique controls of damaged buildings and final damage assessments were made by experts at four different universities. 7,500 of our brothers and sisters were given temporary employment to contribute to employment through İSKUR. These brothers and sisters are still in business. Despite the coldest winter of the last 50 years, the foundation of permanent housing has been laid on the thirty-nineth day of the earthquake. The region had 17.480 dwellings in cooperation with AFAD and TOKI. The villages still have 9,500 dwellings, 3,000 stables. These dwellings were given to our victims for twenty years, zero interest, no pay in the first two years, 75,000 liras. By COSGEB, 5,500 businessmen were granted an estimated $300 million loan to our tradesman. These loans were provided with zero interest rates, first year free, three years of repayment. All SEC and tax debts of our traders and merchants have been postponed. Investments continued nonstop for a stronger Van. Van's got city hall status. The university campus has renewed itself with cash support and has now become a much stronger university with new staff. With new student dorms, the capacity has been increased by 140 percent, and we are now at 12,000 capacity. Instead of every single classroom that collapsed in the earthquake, there were two classes. So far 2,031 classrooms have been held, including 2,628 boarding homes. A huge 130 million-dollar investment in drinking water that was vital to Van. The total amount of aid and expenditures made to Van (a.k.a. after the earthquake) amounted to about $5 billion. In the early hours of the earthquake, the Prime Minister himself followed the work at the coordination centre, studied the search and rescue work in place; he never left his people alone, visited our province four times. During the earthquake, we had a minister with us almost every day. In 2012 alone, one or more ministers were with us on 251 days of 365 days, contributing to the work. Dear lawmakers, the number of survivors from the wreckage required that the search-and-rescue speed be above international standards. Turkey has become a model for disaster management. This phase, which has been appreciated by international disaster governments, is the supreme achievement of our government and our beloved nation. In the 1999 Marmara earthquake, there was a government that had not been able to reach the debris for months; in 2011, on the fourth day of the earthquake, search and rescue was completed. In the first year of the Marmara earthquake, 30,000 of our citizens were still living in tents, and on the thirty-nineth day of the earthquake, the foundation of permanent dwellings was laid. The Ministry of Public Works and Housing stated that after thirteen months, permanent dwellings were started; there is a will, a government today that delivers 15,341 permanent dwellings ten months after the earthquake. Dear friends, the main opposition party offered the law in those days to make our Ercish district a province for the sake of its political interests. This kind of populist policy naturally didn't respond when the Van people were dealing with their lives. For the people of Van, such political maneuvers have no meaning. After the earthquake, opposition MPs and political party representatives who visited our province pronounced high figures on the number of dead with unrealistic information. In the same way, they tried to overstate the violence of the earthquake to mislead the public and create an environment of insecurity against the institutions of the state. Thankfully, the common sense of Van didn't honor them, didn't believe what they were told. An earthquake is a natural disaster. Despite the work done, there may have been flaws, but rather than dealing with these staffs burning with the love of service, be a part of the solution. Give up the love of being a broken fault line in Van. The people of Kadirshinas Van know what they're doing in the earthquake. A man who has no mark in the field can't have a face in the blend. He who knows a thing does it, he who knows little gives wisdom, he who doesn't know it criticizes, he who can't do it casts mud. For ten years, the AK PARTY has been the insurance of our country's unity and integrity, which has been the subject of politics, which has brought Turkey to light tomorrows. His actions after the earthquake occurred in Van. The AK PARTY was covered by natural disaster insurance. May God never again cause this pain to our country, to our nation. Those painful days have shown us Turkey's brotherhood, unity, and unity. Our nation has become one. He set an example of cooperation and solidarity that would set an example for the world. For their support, I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Bashir Atalay, our ministers, our MPs, and our beloved nation, who never leaves us alone.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0046par0079	Thank you, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0047par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0046par0081	Sir?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0047par0082	As Van MP, I'd like to ask for a say in the fact that the clerk misinformation the General Assembly, and because of the inconvenience I'm experiencing, I'm entitled to the right information responsibility.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0048par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0046par0084	Sir?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0048par0085	The AKP representative has made a false statement that the main opposition party there is doing populism in the earthquake region.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0049par0086	Every man for himself, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0048par0087	It's not an opinion, it's a misinformation.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0050par0088	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0048par0089	The People and the Assembly have been misinformed. That's not true. I'd like to take a crack at it.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0051par0090	You want to fix it. Now, first, I'll make a promise to Mr. Threeer. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0052par0095	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I wish everything Mr. Hatibin said was true. I wish all the wounds were covered. I wish the memory of those who lost their lives had been respected. I wish all those who had to be treated for health care since the earthquake had been treated. If only the house hadn't been built for everyone whose homes had been destroyed and not sold to them as merchants, no human being would have stayed out. I wish there were still hundreds of families living in containers, even people living in shelters, building their own shelters, none of which would have happened. If only all the training problems in Van had been resolved. I wish all health care was done. I wish nothing had happened. But there's still no telling how many dead people have died in this earthquake. How many people were buried in Erzurum, and how many were buried in the cemetery of the orphans; how many were buried in Diyarbakir, and how many were buried in the cemetery of the orphans, which is unknown. How many families have disappeared altogether, not even the number of them known. However, the orator must be from his job as an accountant, bringing everything into a mathematical account. The entire population of over a million people have been victims of this earthquake, and so far, none of the problems have been solved. We've given housing to the survivors. They call it. No; just as a house was sold to people through TOKI in any city, it is surrounded by a snake that fell into the sea because of the earthquake. The house was sold to them by account. Since he's a tenant, there are hundreds of families who don't have housing rights, whose family stays out there. If any of you are sincere in this matter, let them come, and let them observe the suffering of the families of Van. Let them not be limited to what I say. The van has only been a tender fair since the earthquake, and the AKP's supporters have been relieved of these tenders, nothing else has happened. Ask the people of Van, especially the people who voted for the AKP. Ask the person who can't find a home even though he's a tenant, even though his house has been destroyed. There's got to be some conscience, there's got to be some morality. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0053par0099	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Mr. Eyeborn, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0054par0104	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have expressed that the AKP's MP, Republican People's Party, has been propaganda and populism in the region while discussing issues and wrongs related to the Van earthquake. This is not real. One of the party representatives who arrived in the region shortly after the earthquake is the MPs of the Republican People's Party, the Vice President of the Republic. The first party leader to the region is Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu, and after the earthquake, there were regular Republican People's Party MPs in the region. Hundreds of trucks were organised by the mayors of the Republican People's Party in different provinces; NGOs participated, lawmakers walked the region in person. I've been to the van three times alone and I've filed a report for Mr. President. Look, Turkey is at least a decade behind on its policies to reduce international disaster risks, and the world's risk of disaster, its development in terms of earthquake risk reduction policies, it assumes. If the AKP is interested in reducing disaster risks, including earthquakes, and wants to do something in line with international developments, it must change the Law on Disasters, which has turned into a patch; the old, unresolved Building Law, which does not solve Turkey's problems with disasters; the Law on Housing 5543, has to change them immediately. You haven't touched these in 11 years. The Law of Disaster - as I have already expressed from this bench - is like a patched bundle. So is the zoning law. Now you will bring him in a bag of law, and you will make some changes in the Law. There are still serious shortcomings in our country. The AKP has not fulfilled enough in its 11-year mandate to reduce disaster risk. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0055par0108	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0056par0109	Mr. President, the speaker said that Mr. Kilicdaroglu was the first to arrive at Van. I'd like to take a statement to say that that's not true and that our President is first.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0055par0110	You did, sir. It's on the record. Your president was here, yes.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0057par0111	Mr. President, the last thing I wanted to do was ask him to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0055par0112	Tell me.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0057par0113	Speaking on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the speaker hinted that the electricity bills in the tent cities and containers were paid by their government, as if they had been given a great favor to the Van people. We would like to point out that this is inadmissible in any way. The people of Van are a people who pay their taxes against this state, go into the army because they're forced to serve, use the game, fulfill their obligations to the state.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0058par0114	Are the Van people a separate people? The one who uses electricity pays for it.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0057par0115	In a disaster that has affected an entire city, the government has a responsibility to its people, as per the principle of being a social state. With such cheap things, we find it in no way right to create a sense of service to the Van people, as if we were doing the Van people a favor. What needs to be done is to establish the principle of being a social state at the point of healing Van's people during an earthquake that has affected the entire city. I'd like to file a report on this matter.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0059par0117	Thank you, Mr. Bauken, it's been filed. And now Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay, who has been asked to open a parliamentary investigation. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0060par0124	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our government on the motion to investigate myself by the Republican People's Party, and with all due respect, I salute you all. Of course, over a year and a half after that painful earthquake, the earthquake's wounds were largely covered. As a government, to be honest, we have demonstrated extraordinary governance and coordination in the Van earthquake. I'd like to point out that this is an example of the government leading the Van earthquake, covering the post-an earthquake wounds, by the relevant international organizations, in fact. In fact, he's earned everyone's appreciation, so everybody knows; our people know it, our citizens know it, you know it. After the Van earthquake, our country, our state, our nation -- the state, the nation hand in hand -- has made a great sacrifice, a great success, it's become one body, and the wounds are really covered. We've mobilized all the resources of our country, and I'm the Minister of my own interests, and as our government, we're actually at peace with doing our best and doing our best. Of course, there's no telling what happened in that ten minutes from the moment of the earthquake. Mr. Mustafa, our Van MP friend has mentioned some things, but I must say that from the very first moment as a grand delegation of ministers, especially our Prime Minister, we were all in VanIDE and Ercish. Our brothers from Van and Ercish never suffered loneliness, and we have always been there in turns as fellow ministers until the delivery of permanent dwellings on the anniversary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to say that I mean, we're not an easy government, and I don't take things lightly myself. I mean, if there's a mistake, if there's a mistake, if there's one missing, we see it the most ourselves. I, in particular, am a man who puts that critical aspect of the work very ahead of me, but about the Van earthquake, what needs to be done after that, I sincerely say to you: Turkey has given a good test; our government, our government, all our institutions have given a very good test, so I would like to express that in particular. Not just the government, but our nation, Turkey from all parts of Turkey, has become one body, with great sensitivity, cooperation, and almost one body. We've been through this. It's said, of course, that there are some things here, and I'd say, well, that's the kind of thing, you know, that's what it's all about, you know, but our people know. My dear brothers, it's just been expressed. Of course, it's painful. So we've lost 644 citizens and many of our citizens have been injured. I pray for the mercy of the Lord again to these citizens. But let me put it this way: from the very first moment, in a more effective coordination, everyone did their post-Van earthquake mission better. From Kızılay to Turkish Armed Forces, NGOs, search and rescue teams, all of them -- co-ordinating AFAD, of course -- but until all of them, a great work has been done, I want to express it. Now, in spite of that busy winter, there was almost a huge mobilization going on here. Praise be to God, there has never been any financial hardship. Look, the figure has been given, and right now our spending in Van after the earthquake is 5 billion Turkish liras, dear friends, and there's a certain amount of, uh, $350 million in aid from our citizens. But nowhere, look, so quickly, so effective... the building of tent cities, 75,000 tents, then the container cities... 30,000 containers, my dear brothers, our precious deputies; 30,000 containers were made in winter, and they were delivered to Van. This, of course, is an extraordinary performance, and I would like to say that, of course, 35,000 of our citizens, who have been sent to other provinces, have spent the winter in other provinces, in guesthouses. Now, here, I'd like to give him a little bit of time, especially as a matter of information about the housing, of course, about the damage assessment, which is more of an investigation proposal here. Dear MPs, now 16,895 dwellings have been completed and delivered, 16,895 dwellings. The construction of 2,148 dwellings is almost complete. When there is an earthquake, a tenant is given a dwelling on the same conditions as a victim's home, at the same prices, at large subsidies, I'd like to express that, too. Now, here, of course, at the same time, the damage assessment has continued from the very first moment. Post-confession damage detection studies are observational studies carried out in accordance with Article 13 of the Law, which will be helped with the measures to be taken because of Umumi Hayatler No. 7269. I am reading the same technical statements, so that the completion of these studies will also be changed according to the size and area of the earthquake. In the first earthquake at 7.2, the work with 234 technical staff began in 25/10/2011. As part of preliminary damage detection studies, the second earthquake of 5.7 magnitude occurred as Van continued to determine the area affected by the earthquake across the district of Ercish, and the impact analysis of victims who would need emergency shelter. Preliminary examination of 102,709 structures has been completed during this period. However, damage detection studies do not rule that buildings that have not been damaged or suffered minor damage due to an earthquake could be destroyed in any later earthquake. That's why these studies were taken into account, and they weren't told or told to go into the building of disaster victims about the buildings. After the earthquake, our citizens were constantly warned by the AFAD not to enter damaged buildings. It's in the press, it's in my file. These warnings have appeared in the international press as well as in the local and national media. Damage detection launched immediately after the first earthquake continued uninterrupted until February 10, 2012. In total, more than 200,000 dwellings, workplaces, and stables have been examined. The works include more than a thousand civil engineers and architects from various public institutions and institutions, engineers, architecture rooms, and universities. Technicians have worked tirelessly day and night to determine the damage caused by the earthquake to the buildings, and at the end of that, after a permanent damage assessment -- you know -- there, the issues of rights and property -- have been decided according to him. So when the second earthquake occurred, further damage detection in Van and Ercish province was already under way. But I would like to put it this way, especially as the last sentence, that damage detection is not an earthquake-resistant test, and because of the aftershocks of the buildings... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because of the destruction, damage detection is not held responsible; it is the technical dimension of the work. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0061par0138	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0062par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0061par0140	Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0062par0141	Mr. President, in his speech, the Minister has provided housing for all those who are Kira. I'd like to make a statement that's not true.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0063par0142	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. Mr. President, everyone has their own opinion.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0062par0143	I'm just saying what I think.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0063par0144	Other than that, no one has to fix anyone's, there's no such procedure, it's abused, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0064par0145	Mr. Canikli, if a member of the General Assembly is standing up and saying something, please let me hear what he wants.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0063par0146	But, Mr. President, this way too, I mean... there's a limit to that too, sir. According to the Civil Code, according to what clause, Mr. President, is he making such a request?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0064par0147	Mr. Canikli, the congressman has stood up to demand something and I have to listen to what he demands, please.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0065par0148	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, if he wanted to stand up and speak in accordance with procedure...
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0064par0149	You do, yes, but it's my old man's job to make promises. Please, let me take it again for what you want.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0065par0150	Yes, at your discretion. The Minister has made several false statements in his speech. He made it clear that he had provided the means for all tenants to obtain housing. I've just said it in a sentence, which is why I'm asking you to make a statement in order to properly inform the House that this information is not true.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0066par0152	Have him get a correction, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0067par0153	Yes, you go into the system, sir, one minute I'll give you my word, you make that statement. Mr. Tanal, what do you want?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0068par0155	Mr. President, the Minister said: "Never enter your homes after the earthquake, empty your homes, enter your homes. We have no explanation." It's a false statement, and I'd like to take a pledge to correct it.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0067par0156	You guys go into the system, I'll give you a minute. Mr. Tanal entered the system first. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0069par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. The earthquake occurred on October 23, 2011. On 29 October 2011, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin, Minister of Foods, Agriculture and Animalism Mehdi Eker and Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar presented the following sentences to Mr. Bayraktar on 29 October 2011. Where there's an earthquake, there'll be no more earthquakes. I would say that Van central and Ercish are safe zones. He said 95 percent of the buildings did their first damage assessment work, but after that, everyone can enter his home. However, after the citizens entered their homes, a second earthquake shocked them and 12 of our citizens lost their lives. So in this respect, Mr. Bayraktar made such a statement on October 29, 2011, that the citizens entered their homes. Responsibility is born from that point of view. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0070par0165	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Threeer, please.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0071par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, Mr. Secretary has established many lines that do not reflect the facts, while stressing that everyone who is a tenant has the right to a dwelling, but this is not the case. Even though he's a tenant, even though he has the right, even though he owns the house, there are people living in containers right now. As a minister, as a government official, he has the responsibility to inform you how many people live in containers, tents, and barracks that they have built with their own means. Although it has been nearly two years, if people live in a container, if they live in a tent, and the families have become asthmatic because of living in a container. If they call us every day, it is the government's responsibility. I just wanted to ask you how they're gonna handle this conscientious responsibility.
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0072par0171	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Congressmans, negotiations on the parliamentary inquiry motion have been completed. Now, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm going to submit to your votes on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation into Bashir Atalay. Under Article 100 of the Constitution, the vote will be held in the form of a secret vote. Before the vote begins, I'm going to make another statement about the method of voting. I propose how the secret vote will be held: from the members of the Commission and the government, from the clerks in the order of the Commission, from the Clerk Member Adana to Denizli, from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, from Diyarbakır, including Istanbul; from İzmir to Mardin, and from Mersin to Zonguldak, from Mardin to Zonguldak; one member of the nation who was read will give the envelope with three round stamps, including one green, one red, and one will sign the envelope and the envelope in the envelope. The MPs won't vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. As you know, one of these stamps is the white one, the red one is the rejection, and the green one is the abstention vote. The power of attorney will not be voted. We're taking a vote. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? For the last time, is there a member who doesn't use the game? I don't think so. You can lift the cups. Would our clerks please come in for the count? [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament (9/2) is the result of a secret vote on the opening of a parliamentary investigation into Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay: ▪ Number of votes used :357 Muhammad Bilal Macit Mustafa Hamarat
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0073par0195	In this case, there's no trust. Do you need to resign because it's below 276?
tbmm-2013-05-20sit02spe0072par0196	The opening of a parliamentary investigation was not approved according to these voting results. Congressmans, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (May 21st 2013) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals, according to the decision made by verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
