tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Kars MP Yunus Kılıç, who asked about the death of Karzim Karabekir Pasha, the great commander of our Istiklal War, and Shark conqueror. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have taken this day's oath to remind you of the heroes of our Liberation War, of the saviors of East Anatolia, of Shark conquerors, of the savior of Kars, of the late Kazim Karabekir Pasha, to remember, to remember, to remember, and to speak of their heroism. I salute the esteemed members of our coven. In fact, Kazim Karabekir was born in 1882 as the son of a gentleman in Istanbul, but fate never allows him to live as long as he wants in Istanbul. After graduating from the cadet school in 1902, he is doing his first internship at the Monastery. Of course, then, after the 1887-1888 Ottoman-Russian-Russian war, it is a region that the Russians have already confused, and Kazim Karabekir Pasha has to begin with a struggle for the first years of his life. Later, he was assigned to teach at the cadet school again. He is in the Movement Army to suppress the March 31st Rebellion. He has to go back to the Balkans to suppress the Albanian uprising, and during the Balkan wars in 1912 he shows serious struggles and heroics with Serbs, Croats, Greek gangs. He's going down the road to Iran, where he's fighting. In Çanakkale, in Cereşdere, he gives the French a hard time, so to speak, and he shows great heroism. He's in Iraq, he's in Diyarbakır, he's in Bitlis, he's in Elazığ, he's in Diyarbakır, he's in charge of the rescue of Mush. And in the meantime, of course, it corresponds to the years of Sarikamis drama. In 1914-1915, the Russian invasion of the area begins after Operation Yellowkamis, where Enver Pasha started it and the process was full of frustration and heroism. Kars, Ardahan, and Sarıkamis, Batum, and Artvin, and Bitlis, and Mush, and Erzincan, and Erzurum. Later, after the rescue of Bitlis and Mush, a situation in our country's favor develops, the Bolshevik Revolution happens, and the Russians withdraw from our land, evacuate. But a problem is beginning again. Instigating the Armenians, especially from our country's subjects, who reside in that region, they begin massacres and persecution in the region. After the Russian War of 1887-1888, the period of 40 years of captivity has already begun, and this time there is a mere measure, a massacre. In the process, Kazim Karabekir is again clearing this area of these forces, bringing the Armenians back out of our borders. Meanwhile, there is another negative happening in those days, and the area is being cleared of Ottoman soldiers under the Fifth Amendment of the Mondros Investigation. Having been discharged, the Armenians are entering the process of re-invasion, slaughter, with the support of Russia again under the control of these states, knowing that this is an opportunity. At this time, again, Kazim Karabekir, who came out of his heroics, who had been placed in the heart of East Anatolia, asks him to be appointed as Chief of Staff in İstanbul, and he goes to Kars. He goes to Erzurum. As Commander of the Corps. And something much more interesting is happening, by the way, not only about the saving of the east, but also about the beginning of our struggle for salvation. Maybe we don't know much about this side of history, but while Karabekir Pasha is in charge of the east, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says to Erzurum, he says, "Commander, I've assigned myself to the east, I'm going there, you start the struggle for the homeland and I'm waiting for you there." Although the arrest order of Ataturk is presented by the padishah, Kazim Karabekir has been giving support and support to Karabekir. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he also started the Erzurum Congress with Ataturk, showing great sacrifices and heroics in reshaping the East and the Republic of Turkey. We honor and honor. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Sword. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who wants to talk about the problems of local newspaper and television employees. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are broadcast organizations in local radio and television areas and in their geography that provide a lot of audio and approval for the political system. However, in November 2012, there were serious problems and concerns stemming from a regulation issued in the language of RTÜK. I made a promise to share them with you and to tell you what needs to be done. I salute your high council. The International Telecommunications Association has forced all countries to go digital until 2015. In November 2012, RTÜK decided to make frequency tenders in order to organise this area. It is currently being studied on the terms of the tender. The union set up by local radio and televisions does not say that this contract should be made. It even supports a tender that supports technological infrastructure, eliminates broadcast pollution and chaos, and serves pluralism. But he wants to make an eye out of it, at least with a thousand blessings and sacrifices, not to be turned the way the corporations and our country have taken in this area, not to have the rights and the sense of justice be violated, like grass crushed under the feet of elephants, when they want us to tidy up the publishing field. If these warnings are not heeded, then the previous, three-time tender cancellations will occur again, time will be lost, and uncertainty will continue. No matter what anyone says or even the law says, after 20 years of actuality, a earned rights phenomenon has emerged, and RTÜK has accepted this fact in all its frequency tenders. Radios and televisions allowed to broadcast by RTÜK continue to broadcast in the area of coverage. The local broadcasters have made significant investments in their networks. This job, believe me, isn't about making money, it's about the heart. And among them are those who cut off their children's children's maintenance, and strive to keep their affairs. You all know these knights from your territory. They've had some serious experience, they've created a culture. In spite of their difficulties, it is necessary to allow these organizations to continue their broadcasts if it is a debt of loyalty. Political and social actors who are unable to find a place in the national media organizations that have become monopoly are able to reach society from local channels and to express themselves. Then let's respect their earned rights. Let them have the frequency at a price the government will decide and they will accept. The tender method may provide the state with a few extra coins, but the defining quality of real democracy is that we plant matchwater at the root of too much vocalism. These organizations, which have been wiped out at high prices, are eaten by monogamous media giants, which is synonymous with slaughtering the chicken that lays golden eggs in the name of the democratic community. Let's not make this mistake as a country, let's give up the profit of the short day and think big. If the tender is to be made, however, let the first round of the currents first be in the form of a second round for other demands. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's expertise in every profession, and radio and television is the same. Everyone can take part in the tender in their field. Otherwise, it means denial of the experience and principles that have been achieved so far, which is not only the publishing agencies, but the government learning the alphabet all over again. Moreover, if radiomen want to enter the television area, they can take part in the second round of the two-round tender we proposed. Another important issue is that the tender in one province must be entered by organizations broadcasting in that province. As of today, advertising revenues that ensure the media's survival are $2.5 billion as of 2011. TVs receive 56 per cent of these expenses, radios receive 3 per cent. 228 regionals and local televisions and radios are down almost 1 per cent of these revenues. As you can see, the greatest income injustice is here. RTÜK is drafting a precondition for each and seven publishers' tenders as if he doesn't know the truth. The country must immediately give up its idea that is incompatible with its facts. You know, right now, the license fees in our country are three times the height of the European countries, $210,000. Considering the ad cake, it's obvious how high the price is. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in this brief period of time, we would like to share these important issues with you, and in terms of citizens, we have the right to our hands in terms of access to citizens... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, could you give us a moment to greet him?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0005par0041	All right, come in, come in, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0004par0042	I wanted to announce that we are with you as the National Movement Party of local television and radio. If the pluralist is to be a democracy, it will be with its parliament and its media. Without one, the other says no, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük (Secütü) who wants to talk about issues in the use of constitutional rights. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the issues in the use of constitutional rights. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, I'd like to begin with the following statements from the EU Commission 2012 Turkey Progress Report. The report raises serious concerns about violations of freedom of expression. In particular, the legal framework for organised crime and terrorism and its interpretation by the courts have caused abuse. Pressure on the media by state officials has led to the spread of auto-sensorship. You can appreciate that it is not possible to describe a system of right criticism as democracy. Defending such a incomplete democracy is not possible to accept that fundamental rights and freedoms are presented as a blessing. This country must also be able to benefit from the right to hold meetings and demonstration march, written in Article 34 of our Constitution without being beaten by police or exposed to pepper spray. Without fear of trial, the people of this country should be able to benefit from the freedom of expression and spread of the thought written in the 26th article of our Constitution without hesitation, and from the right of protest to the end. Dear lawmakers, during a speech by the Prime Minister in Gaziantep, we recently watched how a teacher who wanted to be appointed was removed from the area by the police. I'd like to ask, what has this teacher been in trouble for? Is it because he asked you to appoint, or because he told you no more votes? The purpose of this is clear. The point of this is to intimidate. This didn't just happen to that teacher who wanted the appointment, who wanted the right to protest. This happened to a student at İstanbul University Law School who was detained while passing the road, who had been imprisoned for over two months, just as it happened to Pınar Selek. Unfortunately, the AKP's record on human rights violations is growing every day. Also last week, members of the Society of Modern Lawmakers' homes were raided in the dark. Same motive, membership in a terrorist organization. You know, journalists and writers were members of a terrorist organization, former Chief of Staff, students, and those who opposed hydropower plants are members of a terrorist organization. No wonder we're the most terror-criminal nation in the world. We have a law enforcement system, a judicial system that manages to create terror criminals from every opposition, every conflicting thinker. And some of us call it a forward democracy. These are the number of criminal prosecutions launched against human rights advocates in the 2012 Turkish Progress Report. The key part of the application to the European Court of Human Rights in 2012 is the right to a fair trial written in Article 36 of our Constitution, which gives us a clear idea of our judiciary. All of this shows that the use of basic rights and freedoms is becoming increasingly luxurious for every non-resistant population. Dear lawmakers, we celebrated Justice and Democracy Week last week. Unfortunately, while we celebrated the Week of Justice and Democracy, our country's view of justice and democracy, the view of freedom, was not pleasant. Rosa Luxemburg has a saying: "Freedom is not only the freedom of the ruling party, or the freedom of the party's members, but the freedom of those who think differently, no matter how numerous they are, " says Rosa Luxemburg.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you, Mr. Little. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a short promise to our lawmakers, according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Like the province of Tokat, where I am a MP, the grocery store, the grocery store, the butcher, etc., is a victim of the fact that the laws of supermarkets are not legalized by our Parliament. The group of hyper and supermarkets, most of which are in the hands of foreign capital trusts, opens up branches in cities, let alone the neighborhoods, even on every street. Since there is no limiting law on this issue, every supermarket branch that opens causes the closing of the 60-70 trades group, which is unguarded, to become unemployed. Our grocery store, our grocery store, our butcher's group, should not be closed. And for that, I'd like to thank you for the emergency supermarket law.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0009par0065	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been killed today by eight workers, including Syrian fugitives, and dozens injured in the explosion at the Antwerp Organised Galvanian factory. My condolences to the working class, to their families, to the wounded. Work killings in Turkey live in hell for workers. We have always said that the Employment Health Safety Act, which took effect on Christmas, would be useless, that a working life in the capital service and under control would be a life of death, poverty, and unemployment for workers. There must be a reason for you to rebel even the deaths of workers and take action for a lesson in capital. We've been talking for days about the problems and threats of the lives of the people of our country. In the last month, five attacks were carried out on Armenian citizens living in Samatya, where I was a child, and one woman was brutally murdered. The first thing that comes to mind behind these attacks is the provocation of racial and hate speech in society. We can't live in fear and fear with blood and hostility. We can't have a nation and a country based on such monogamy. We don't want a dorm like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0010par0069	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0011par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Last year, only a week before the high school placement exam, the weighted mid-education achievement score in computing the scores was lifted and the demand to bring in a system based on individual success was justified, and it was announced that the application was postponed to 2012-2013 education years. Currently, the SEC is suing one after the other for seeking to stop the execution of some school and student guardians who have proven themselves to be contrary to the Constitution. On the other hand, some experts say that the Council of Ministers has not made such a decision, so it is not possible for the implementation to cover this year. I'd like to ask Mr. Hunter his thoughts on the matter, saying good luck. Isn't it against the principle of equality to just take note of the school's achievements in college exams? Are you planning a study on this? And in national education...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, 90 years ago, on January 30, 1923, Turkey and Greece signed a mutual agreement on exchange. Each year, January 30th is celebrated as a memorial of the martyrs in many provinces of Turkey. Because during that exchange, many of our people had lost their lives and died on the way to the migration. And I, the son of a Muslim family who emigrated to Turkey at that time, ask for the mercy of all our relatives, all our citizens, who died at that time, to have mercy on them, and to pay my respects to their families. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate Mr. Nabi Avcı, who has been appointed to the Ministry of National Education. I wish your work would bring blessings to our nation, our country, and the education community. Mr. Secretary must first remove the obstacles to the development and upbringing of teachers. As a matter of fact, legal rights are denied by teachers who have the right to ask for a two-time appointment in the Admissions and Locations Act from spouses, health care and education apology groups, or graduates and PhDs. Higher education rights for teachers who have been educated have also been removed from the permit code, which had previously been held for two half days. Teachers who strive to grow themselves need to be shown the necessary conveniences and to be encouraged by teachers to grow themselves. The ministry is also required to end the breakups of teachers who are waiting for a transfer from the spouse's position as a second job. No excuse justifys the separation of married people. It's a form of cruelty. Family should be known to be more important than school and education. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0015par0088	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0016par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The assistant professor, professor or research worker staff, who received the academic title but has not yet been assigned to the staff, has lost a great deal of rights at a financial point. Hundreds of court rulings have confirmed that the professors of this status must receive their wages on the basis of additional indicators applied to staffed professors from the day they received the professor's title. Finally, Istanbul 3. The Executive Court voted on December 19, 2012, where it served at the Faculty of Communication at the University of Marmara. Dr. Hüseyin Barış Dosteer has decided to compensate for the financial losses of the professor in his case against the University of Marmara. We demand that this unlawfulness and persecution, which the AKP has been unable to resolve for ten years, be resolved immediately and complete the rights of our scientists. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. In the factory, in the harbor, in the mountain and in the city, we have become a country of death, everywhere and all the time. Eight of our citizens were killed and ten others injured in an explosion at a galvanian factory in Antwerp. I ask God's mercy for those who have died, and for those who have been wounded, and for the speedy healing. As long as we don't approach the individual within the framework of human rights and human rights, these sufferings will continue to happen. I wish for a future in peace, a future in a democratic common country where no deaths have happened, as free, equal citizens.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0020par0105	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture and Petting through you. In recent days, after the rain, the flood caused the loss of lives and goods in our provinces and counties, while our crops and greenhouses were flooded, our animals, the peasants, and the farmers were devastated. Has there been any damage and loss detected as a result of the disaster? What are the detection results? In the statement of citizens in Çanakkale and 11 counties and local media reports that billions of dollars have been damaged, but it is alleged that a total of $110,000 has been sent to all of our settlements to be distributed to the governorate as a joke. Even if we distribute them according to our counties, there's a drop of $9.166. If that's true, what wound will they cover with this money? The relief of pain and the loss, the loss...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0021par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. For 11 years, the AKP government has been putting the feeders in position. Feeders' food and hay intakes are already expensive. There's been a hay shortage this year. Will Ben from here give government officials, feeders, straw, bait... will he restructure the loan debts of the struggling feeders? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0022par0114	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0023par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Subcontractor work is one of the problems of our country's immediate work exploitation. A while ago, the EUAS Van Management Directorate opened a security service tender, which, for some reason, won the highest bidder first. The People's Contractorship came in on the appeals, and the lowest bidder received the tender. With 43 security guards, Van was shocked when IDA Security brought its employees into operation on January 14th. Allegedly, the head of the EUAS Business Administration has indicated that they have been given a list of 43 people from the AKP's mayorate and that no one will be employed in the security business except for the party list. The IDA Security Director has applied to İSKUR and has requested that his workers be sent from İSKUR, but his application has not been taken into account. After all, the IDA security firm...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0022par0120	Thank you. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0024par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. After İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, an operation was launched yesterday at 6 a.m. to Eskişehir Metropolitan Municipality. Today, our mayor of Antalya Metropolitan has been called to a statement that lasts three and a half hours. The Republican People's Party's capital city municipalities continue to work with their brains and produce services, even though the government has all sorts of differentiative approaches, all kinds of obstacles. Izmir Metropolitan Municipality has set an example in the world with its development model in the local area. Last month, he was elected mayor of the month in a study in England. The mayor of Eskişehir Metropolitan City has created a beautiful city and all of Turkey is a native and a foreigner...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0025par0127	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0026par0130	Thank you very much. Mr. President, today is the 65th anniversary of Karabekir Pasha's death. As a party of nationalist movement, we wish our Pasha the blessings of the great God. Kazim Karabekir Pasha has successfully conducted a process where the Turkish nation is tested by fire, a soldier who has worked hard to start and win the national struggle. I ask the Lord God to have mercy on me. Secondly, as the National Movement Party Group, we wish our citizens, who died in the explosion in Gaziantep, mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0027par0134	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0028par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. We have learned with great regret that my hand in the Organised Industrial District of Antwerp today has lost the lives of eight of our fellow workers and that more than 15 of our fellow workers have been injured. After the explosions of the gray in the mines in Zonguldak, especially from the beginning of 2013, the news that had just arrived in our hearts shows that these work killings have now reached an unbearable point for us. We believe that these work killings are preventable, that they can't exist if necessary audits and necessary measures are taken. With that belief, yesterday we brought Parliamentary research on job killings and subcontractorization to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Unfortunately, our motion to open the way for the House to receive its will was not accepted. Again, we invite the House to be more sensitive and to take willpower.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0030par0143	It's the job of politicians to always act responsible for the nation. In the face of recent DHKP-C operations, the behaviour of some lawmakers is incompatible with the law. Those who stand in front of police headquarters such as the organisation's militants, without the basis of the investigation and allegations, share in the actions of those organisations. The blood of our police officers who were killed by the DHKP-CH has not dried up. It appears that those whose families went to support the DHKP-C organization are not suited to this roof while their orphaned children are screaming. These MPs aren't at the martyr funerals, but they're the lead in terrorist funerals, organization operations. It is insincere to bring water to the mill of organisations who are talking about democracy on one hand and who are trying democracy on the other, making democracy the means to achieve illegitimate goals. The cries of families who lost their children to the organization are not out of our sight. The killings in France have also been largely enlightened, and it has been discovered that the PKK is the killer. Yesterday, it's their duty to call people to the street and claim the funerals.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0029par0145	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Halaman? No. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0031par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP's government has been promoting unjust, illegal investigations and discrediting municipalities in Eskişehir Municipality two days ago and today in Antalya City, using law as a bat. I look forward to the days when our people will say, "Stop these unjust acts of the AKP." I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0032par0152	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0033par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, I would like to say that regarding the operation that was attempted at Eskişehir Metropolitan Municipality, former Antalya Mayor and AKP MP Menderes Türel said: "Better, our friends will be cleared. We want the possibility to be cleared of AKP municipalities under the same principle of equality. In addition, Kayseri MP Sevki Kulkuloğlu made a statement in parliament today. Mr. Group Deputy President Mustafa Elitas had a speech on legal wiretaps, which made it very clear in his speech how he interfered with a judge -- with an imam channel. I want an explanation from the AKP Group. How could Mustafa Elitaş make such an effort to influence a fair trial? Will they be able to answer for it themselves? Do they consider giving Mustafa Elitaş the right to be acquitted?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0034par0160	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0035par0163	Mr. President, the Society of Modern Lawyers, with 3,000 members, was under operation last week, and nine lawyers were arrested. These lawyers include both their president, Selçuk Koztreelı and İstanbul Branch President Taylan Tanay. These lawyers, as described here, are not terrorists, they're not people who get thrown off the high screen and get demagogued. These are the people who deal with cases concerning the problems of society, especially the work killings, and the oppressed. If you were a bit responsible as a government, you would take modern measures today to prevent work killings in Antwerp, and you would not be hostile to the League of Lawmakers, which is called the Aggressor. I'm protesting the operation against them from here and saying hello to the cells. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0036par0168	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0037par0171	Mr. President, I was going to talk to you about something different, but the comments made by a friend of ours who was just speaking are completely unrealistic. Republican People's Party MPs favour democracy, freedom, law and the sanctity of defence. It is clear how lawyers will be searched as written in the law and who will join the search here. We, the Republican People's Party's MPs here, have supported them to defend the defense. Lawyers have been taken into custody illegally. Everybody needs justice one day. There has been no investigation under the law that should be carried out on written grounds. This matter will be enlightened enough in the coming days.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0038par0174	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0039par0177	Mr. President, if we call the 12th of September administration "fascism," I'd like to ask the AKP lawmakers what we call today's events. Over 10,000 elected politicians, mayors, city councilmen, over 80 journalists, 8 elected MPs, almost 1,000 university students, scientists, journalists -- in these practices past September 12th -- and in law prisons today, close to 100. If September 12th is what we call the fascist regime, I wonder what it's called today's regime. As members of the Republican People's Party, I would like to say once again that we will always be there for those who are taken into custody and those who are unlawfully detained. I also condemn those who support these heads, and those who release the murderers of eight students.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0038par0179	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0040par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, in Copperville, we met with lawyers who were under arrest for the trials of the Society of Modern Lawyers in Kandira. I'd like to say that I've really condemned and regret the view that one of our MPs here today -- from the point of view of an elementary school child -- and that the lawyer who defended the criminal was identified with that criminal. The causality of innocence reveals that a person should be treated as innocent until proven guilty and take advantage of his right to a fair trial. If you categorize the lawyers in their case and end them with that crime, you'll be taking a very old-fashioned approach. Because I'm hearing this, I'm not informing you about the motion I made regarding the underground spring water, I want to express my regret.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0041par0186	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0042par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Eight of our workers were killed and 15 others were injured in a business accident that took place today at a Gaziantep industrial plant. I pray for the mercy of God to our workers who have lost their lives, and for the patience and condolences of their relatives, and for the healing of our wounded. But I also want to say that Turkey is a country that ranks top in the ranking of the world countries in business accidents. We have proposed many times as a Republican People's Party to establish a research commission for the investigation and prevention of business accidents in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, but they were not accepted. I'm calling again from here, especially to the ruling party; come, let's set up this research commission and prevent business accidents, workers' deaths. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0043par0193	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0044par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the AK PARTY Group, pray for God's mercy to the eight of our citizens who died in the disaster in the Gaziantep Organised Industry region today, and to their relatives for immediate healing. Of course, we've all spent a lot of legal arrangements for occupational health and safety here together. Our minister and our Gaziantep MPs have arrived at the scene immediately. We're hoping that we won't have accidents like this in the future. In the same way, all claims made in municipalities are in the judiciary. We all need to speak more carefully about all these issues in the judiciary, and it's not right to associate them with our party and our government in particular. Likewise, today, the anniversary of the death of Kazim Karabekir, the great commander of our Imperial War, is once again, with mercy.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit01spe0045par0201	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly From February 21, 2000, the United Nations declared the International Day of Mother Language to support multilingualism, to protect languages and to contribute to their development. According to the United Nations report, 2,500 of the 6,000 languages spoken around the world are in danger of extinction. According to the same report, about 30 languages are spoken in Turkey, where 15 languages are on the verge of extinction and 3 languages are lost. Maintaining and developing languages spoken in Turkey is important for the continuation of our cultural wealth. In this regard, in order to examine and determine the negative effects of the pressures and policies imposed by monotheistic mentality on the languages, which are the main component of Turkey's cultural wealth, and the measures that need to be taken, we ask for the investigation and demand that the research commission be set up under the Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution. [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Language is a means of opening a human being to the outside world, in short, to express our feelings, thoughts, and wishes, which are the basis of an agreement between people. Language is more than a means of communication for people, it's the only way to think, make deductions, make connections between concepts and suggestions, create creative thoughts, absorb abstract concepts, and transfer their achievements through writing into the future. From February 21, 2000, UNESCO declared the International Day of the Mother tongue, to promote multilingualism and culture, to protect languages and to contribute to their development. As Mother tongue Day, the date of February 21st is based on the struggle of the people of Bangladesh for their native language. On February 21, 1952, Dakka University's youth's actions, which followed the call of the Bangladesh Language Actions Committee, were carved into the consciousness of humanity and accepted as the Day of the World Motherland on February 21st to commemorate the struggle. Its native language is the language that the child learns from its immediate surroundings, especially his mother, and the family, which is related to the family and the family, which is the most powerful link between man and society. Thus, the person acquires the first savings of his culture and begins to form the identity he will identify himself with. Children's first names, recognitions and perceptions of objects and events occur in their native language. The native language plays an important role in shaping the child's mental processes, such as perception, reasoning, problem solving. The child was born with a mother's voice when she was still in her womb, and from the day she was born, her mother's voice was revealed by studies that differed from other voices. Hence, the basis for a lifelong emotional relationship between a person and his mother tongue is based on the moment when one begins to cling to life in one's womb. The child's relationship that began with his native language when he was still in his mother's womb continues when he gained basic language skills when he reached the school age. When you start school, a different language outside of your native language imposes a barrier to the development of the child, causing him to waver and to run away from himself, not to care about himself. According to Professor Jim Cummins, professor of the University of Toronto, when children from different cultures begin to study the dominant language, communication between the child and the parent is cut off, and the principle of teaching through the basic rule of pedagogy is violation of the child's experience. The child feels rejected because it is said to leave his culture outside the school door directly or under hint, and the child's active participation in the learning environment has been prevented. Unfortunately, the number of people facing this situation, which would mean shutting down the main channel where the person who is a social entity is connected to the outside world, is expressed by millions. The point where man was thrown away began with the process of nationalization, and many people were cut out of their native language by pressure, ban, and restrictions created by the understanding of creating a nation state. Since the middle of the 20th century, the effects of globalization have been seen, as well as serious stretching of pressure and bans on its native language as a result of the cracks in the solid nation-state structures that do not match social reality. In France, where the national-state model is implemented in the strictest form, local languages are taught in formal and private schools from kindergartens to university. Democratic states consisting of different language and cultural components agree that they must protect and protect differences that are indispensable to their cultural wealth. The way to preserve differences is by protecting and improving the language of the creators of that culture. About 30 languages, which are part of our cultural wealth in Turkey, have been destroyed, while 15 have come to the brink of extinction. With this dignity, it would be appropriate to establish a parliamentary research commission for the development and survival of different languages that feed our cultural wealth. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is expressed by many scientists that genetically modified organisms pose a great risk to human and environmental health, while the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism officials say their statements will bring new GMOs! It is now known that 16 GMOs are allowed, and that three of them are soybeans and 13 of them are also corn. For now, these are intended to be used as animal bait. So they'll feed the GDO products to chicken, calf, cow. By taking the milk, meat, cheese, eggs, yogurt from these animals, we and our children will have our share of food and indirect GDO-based corn. When we ate those animal foods (from eggs to chickens, red meat, and fish) that were used as animal food, we were proven by previous scientific studies of GMO (from egg to fish). Now since the use of these GMOs, the US disease control department has explained that all kinds of artificial elements, artificial fertilizers, pesticides, GMO products have been known to be at great risk to all mankind, and such foods can be harmful to people. It is also known that there is a principle in food safety, so if you're not sure, if you have doubts, you shouldn't release that food, and that principle is unfortunately not run in Turkey. The milk of animals fed by GDO was explained in Europe, where the modified gene had previously been found. It has also been scientifically proven that genetically modified genes exist in the feces of animals fed by GMO, so that when you use these fertilizers in agriculture, your own products may turn into GMO. Genetically modified products, as a result of subtle changes to our food, environment, and our species, are now serving the special interests of large agricultural biotechnology companies, and do not provide consumers with any benefits and very important health and environmental risks. Today, many agricultural products, including clover, canola, cotton, linen, lentils, corn, melons, plums, potatoes, rice, soy, sugar beets, sunflowers, tobacco, tomatoes, and wheat, have been genetically modified. In order to investigate the negative impacts and harms of these genetically manipulated products on human health, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, the 98th, and TBMI Institution. 1) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 11) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Gaziantep]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 16) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 18) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 19) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] [[Gaziantep]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the reasons for the physical and psychological violence that soldiers were subjected to in the barracks, we propose and propose that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 104, and 105, of Constitution 98, and TBM Subsection 104, and 105. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Any man who turns 20 in Turkey is obliged to serve in the army for a period of time. The right to conscientious rejection in most countries is still not recognised in Turkey, and the cost-effective military arrangement has failed to exceed the right to those who have economic opportunities. Every month, dozens of soldiers die in barracks, no longer doubt murder, while many suffer psychological problems due to current circumstances. Violence and oppression at military institutions are sometimes reflected in the public, but the true dimension of violence is kept secret. When he was in the military, there were few soldiers who weren't violent enough. In barracks where the deaths occurred frequently, violence often constitutes verbal and physical violence, often applied to superior subordinates. The lack of clarity of the definition of violence in the existing institutional and legal rules prevents statistics on the phenomenon of violence to be kept, the control to be carried out objectively, and the violence to be surfaced. Physical and psychological violence in barracks is growing. There has been at least one story about the verbal insult or physical violence of almost every soldier, while the violence of the soldiers also resulted in the death of the soldiers. Although his violence against superior subordinates is clearly a crime in the Military Penal Code, there is no action against those who commit violence. Soldiers who are unaware of their legal rights and are not informed of their rights are hiding verbal insults and physical violence. On the other hand, in some cases, it has been suggested that violence was not considered a crime, but a service flaw. In Article 115 of the Military Penal Code, the sentence shall be punished with a sentence of imprisonment from one month to two years. The same law shall be ruled by the person who deliberately repels his property, beats it, or abuses it, or abuses it, or abuses it with the rules of law, or abuses it by means of any real or legal person or subordinates it, or orders it to be performed, or orders it to be performed, or orders it to serve it without charge, or by force by the other, until 2 years. However, in Article 119 of the same law, the verbs carried out by a mafevk in order to repel the actual attacks of a member of the body or to obey orders in the case of a critical and necessary and dangerous manner, are not subject to abuse or crime. In Article 119, the verb is not clearly specified as a crime, so it opens a wide range of jurisdiction over it. In view of all of this, we find it necessary to establish a research commission to determine the immediate agenda of verbal and physical violence in the barracks, the measures to determine and eliminate the causes of violence. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, let's move on to the "choice" part of the agenda. He has been nominated for a membership in the People's Party Group, which was discharged in the Environment Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0045par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with İstanbul MP Aydın Ağan Ayyydın's Law on Adding an Interim Article to the Military Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan and 34 MP's Law on Disciplinary Law. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 394 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Sakarya MP Münir Kutluata will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0046par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council. The Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act and the National Party's Party of Action have made a pledge to add temporary Article 51 to the interim Article 46, which regulates military service to the Military Law 1111. It is stated that the provisions concerning the Disciplinary Courts of Discipline No. 1632 and Disciplinary Courts No. 447 shall be met in accordance with a law concerning the criminal and disciplinary regulations found in the Law. (x) 394 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. On the other hand, a new interim clause is added to the Military Law, which was added to the Military Law last year, due to the urgency of the regulation and the disregard for our warnings at the time. First, let's say that the laws of this period of power come back before the Supreme Assembly before it's even finished its year. This applies to the law that we are currently negotiating, the legal arrangement that we just finished, and the law on additional regulations of the 2/B (i.e. 2/B) that have been going on since yesterday, and it is often applied. The ruling party's irregularity continues, even though it is a power that applies to the maximum amount of bags of law enforcement. In addition, we know that despite the great majority in the House, there is also a way of drafting a law. It is possible to raise the basis of this bill under a few topics: First, as we've just stated, it's a combination of the laws set out in different laws. Second, review of the lawsuits filed at the European Court of Human Rights and the main issues under the European Convention on Human Rights. In this occasion, the violation of disciplinary crimes and new provisions by reevaluating their punishments, Third, the disciplinary action of civil servants who are still subject to military disciplinary regulations is only imposed upon the disciplinary provisions of State Officers Act 657. The fourth is the compensation for missing issues due to being rushed into the fourth-price military arrangement at the end of 2011. On 29 November 2011, during our speech from this platform, when the fourth-price military arrangement was being held, we made a very brief statement from this platform: ▪ The power of the host army is closely related to the state of the country. In that sense, Turkey is the head of countries that should have strong armies. The arrival of the Turkish nation across the ages has been thanks to powerful armies. From now on, the military's power will be seen to be its most important basis in the struggle for existence. It is important to know what kind of military is in which country, what country wants to have an army. But none of these should be given the reason for the sneaky proposals that would weaken the Turkish army, but the strong armies of the nations that have the opposite aim must be dominated. That's why modernization of our army has to have the power to reach the high-tech combat force, to keep our nation safe in the ring of fire, which has been in front of us today, as in many times in history. With that understanding, the technical properties of our army can be upgraded to the highest level, and the number of soldiers needed can be recalculated while their mobility is enhanced. In today's time period, when the threat of division and the risk of regional conflict are at a high level, the beating of the Turkish army and the abuse of the malicious will result in much pain and severe consequences. In order to prevent these negatives, our party desires that the new military system be carried out in a genuine and necessary manner. With that respect, the Turkish Armed Forces' staff regime should be tied to solid and secure grounds and should now be completely excluded from the political agenda. The work of the Justice and Development Party's government in co-operation and dialogue with the Turkish Armed Forces should be possible to meet the requirements for military time and scope. Surely the principle of equality in the service of military service is a matter that is indispensable and has no placement. In light of these findings, the National Movement Party shared its proposals on the military system with the public in four articles. Finally, considering the fundamentals of our radical solutions, we would like to see the end of discussions on our army's strengthening and military rights and honor. We have a chance to address the shortcomings and injustice of this law, which has been brought up as a temporary solution. As a matter of fact, since we didn't take that chance last year, this law has come back to haunt us. Let's be just. Let's make a good arrangement. Despite our demands, this law was rushed, trusting that the number of responsibilities covered by the regular arrangement was too large. Now, the wrong reckoning has come to pass. At that time, a year ago, 13 months ago, it was estimated that 460,000 people in Turkey would take advantage of it, that 180,000 would choose to take advantage of it, and there would be $5.5 billion of it, but according to the latest official statements, the number of applicants remained at around $70,000, and the amount of income was around $2 billion. I'd like to point out some points as to the timing of this arrangement for Turkish Armed Forces personnel. We are concerned that bringing this arrangement up now will serve the desire of the Turkish Armed Forces to be seen, to be distracted, to be seen as legitimate, rather than to meet a need for the Turkish Army. While the parallel of the Turkish nation's separation process and the Turkish army's tampering process was clear, all clues to the PKK's separatist demands were revealed to sit at the negotiating table, no one would have needed a new disciplinary law left behind by the Turkish army. The point is that a planned process is coordinated from four arms. One of them is a campaign for wear-down and discrediting the Turkish army. Second, the campaign for the separation of the Turkish nation and the rejection efforts of the Turkish nation. Third, they're trying to open space for the terrorist organization, make it effective, make it look like it can't be dealt with, and meet their separatist demands. The fourth is the process of the transfer of their assets and revenue fields to foreigners and the division of the illegal domestic product to foreigners, or, in other words, the borrowing and pooring of the Turkish people. We see these four steps being taken in stages but regularly together. The persecution campaign against the Turkish army, as it is known, began on 4 July 2003, when Turkish soldiers in Suleymaniye, Northern Iraq, were subjected to the scandal of being bagged by the United States. As you know, this process was carried out consciously and regularly. On one side today is an army imprisoned, under pressure in the fight against terrorism; on the other side is a terrorist organization sitting at the negotiating table with the government. The command level has been weakened, and the Turkish army faces insults every day by separatist altars and unconscious politicians. Those who constantly stress that the Turkish army is under their command and those who say that they are the commander-in-chief remain silent about their ignominy policies against the Turkish army. If it had been the trial of those preparing for the coup, they would have been punished for their crimes by now; there would have been no objection from the Turkish nation or the Turkish army. When it comes to wearing down the Turkish army, today's picture is revealed, and the nation's conscience is bleeding. He recognizes the Turkish nation; I refuse to use it; but I also think it should be expressed in terms of how the Turkish army is being pressured, how it is being insulted, and how it is being remembered and known. The poor generals of the Patagonian army, such as the Greek army, are not unlike those who are responsible for bombing the house of God, they will open fire on the nation. You know that one of the most important people in the nation has been entrusted to this country. But it's not limited to this; the Turkish army is being subjected to these kind of vicious insults and ugly celebrations about the operations of the Turkish army; it's common knowledge. We all know that the prison of the heroic officers of the Turkish Armed Forces fighting terrorism is a subject at the negotiating tables with the terrorist organization. I don't want to take too long because it's a very hurtful, sad, and exhausting process. I'd like to rephrase that this is not a single process, this is the process of dissolution of the Turkish nation. But here, because it's about our army again, I'd like to leave most of my speech behind, and I'd like to ask the power of one question: could the Turkish army not do it? Was it known that this would happen to Syria while this Parliament was under pressure and imposed on Israel for forty-nine years, while all minefields along the Syrian border were being cleared? Why don't the responsible ones make a statement about it? Where did the Israeli company come from? Where did Turkey's Grand National Assembly have to give 810km of homeland land to a complete stranger? From behind, was it something that those who planned the Middle East on that day thought of the situation that Syria is now in? Was the government unaware of this, or was he aware of it? He has to explain this to the Turkish nation because we, as the National Movement Party, in our Parliament, were under a great deal of pressure, and we were in serious difficulty at the time. The issue of the separation of the Turkish nation and the rejection of the existence of the Turkish nation is indeed a disgrace to Turkey. I wonder, in what capacity is our power met and dealt with by strangers when it goes abroad? It is said that the Turkish government, the Turkish minister, is called the Turkish delegation. Now that we have seen from the statements of the ruling authorities today, what kind of business is it to be denied the existence of the Turkish nation, since some improvements on the concept of Turkey have been announced today? Look, my dear friends, what does that mean? In order to exist in today's world, you have to be a nation to get a share of tomorrow. There can't be an England that says, "We're not English." It can't be funny, and it can't exist in the world; there can't be a France that says, "We're not French." There can't be a Germany that says, "We're not Germans." There can't be an America that says, "We're not Greeks." There can't be a Greece that says, but we're not Turkish, right? This must be calculated by the power, where it is going, what it is wanted to be done, what it is going to be. Look, my dear friends, to deny the existence of the Turkish nation, to deny the conquest of these lands, to build a homeland. The fact that the Christian world has been trying to do for a thousand years, but has had to accept, is that those who run Turkey cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot, cannot use the truth to wake up the crusade today. To honor the existence of the Turkish nation, to take the name of a nation that has become the flag of Islam, to declare that it is the interests of its own nation, to be a nationalist, that is to say that it is a wrong act, and if those who do so are insulted, those who love their people, those who do not betray their nation, those who are loyal to their nation, if they are accused of evil, we leave it to Allah and our great nation. There's so much to say in that sense. It's the law of dissolution of recent courts. Yeah, that was the law -- the law in the mother tongue and everything -- the law of dissolution of courts. I mean, I refuse to use Turkish today. He'll say, in another language, he's supposed to defend himself, and the judge behind him is the main language of the judge. The judge has to understand what's going on so he can make a fair decision. Then the judge will be in the language of those who reject Turkish. It's dissolution of the courts. You divide the televisions, you divide the courts, you say, foreign, education in another language, you divide the schools, you divide the public offices, but the people vote for me, they vote for me. Those who are going to do this to the honest people, I reject your existence, I am disturbed by the existence of the Turkish nation, and I have taken a new path. They must ask for a vote. Now, I'm coming to the end of my time, valued lawmakers, and I'd like to give the power an example of Sakarya, because I'm a Sakarya MP. In the name of Sakarya, the name of the city is the name of the Sakarya River. The Sakarya River is born from Bayat Yaylaı, it heads towards Ankara, goes to Eskişehir, takes hundreds of streams of water, Eskişehir is taken by Badger Tea, takes away its tea, collects hundreds of extra creeks, takes the water of Sapanca Lake, and takes other waters to the sea in Yenimahalle district of Karasu. When you go there and look, the Sakarya River is a great beauty. When you say, "What kind of beauty is this? It's the Sakarya River; inside it is Badger Tea, Mudurnu Tea, Lake Sapanca water." But you can't deny the existence of the Sakarya River. I'll go there and separate this water. If you say, you'll look ridiculous, you'll get wet, and if you insist, you'll drown. I am the one who fell in love with the Turkish nation, to the Sakarya River, and... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I urge them to look at the great rivers, and I hope and wish that this arrangement, despite the fact that its timing is wrong, should atone for some missed shortcomings, should be good for our nation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0047par0048	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Mustafa Moroglu. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0048par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to discuss the Disciplinary Law of the Turkish Armed Forces and the law offered by our İstanbul MP Aydın Ayadın, and the proposal of our friend who bids on behalf of the AKP Group. Our friends will express our views on this law with our motions on one matter at a time. We will talk about our views on the whole of the law -- the discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces, and what should be done in peace and in order for their moral values to be expressed in a high way while fulfilling their better mandates and tasks. We will present our proposals and our views on our proposals, both with our friends, with proposals, with commissions, but with the exception of a few words and sentences that we have passed on to this day, before our original amendments are accepted. Before we enter into our views on the whole of this law, I would like to share one more issue with our great Council and with our fellow citizens who are watching us. And that's the point: if we act with the methods of running the AKP's power and AKP Group's Assembly, drafting and subtracting the legislation, we'll make more laws about the Military Law, we'll make more laws about the 2/B law. Because, the method and procedure are: Bills are prepared in one place, with civil society organisations, associations, representatives of the people, especially lawmakers and opposition parties, without any dialogue, the commission is discussed, then voted in one day, but it is seen in practice that citizens come up with a new bill to hide the problems that people face in the face of these laws. We believe that the issues of discipline in the Military Law are not because the AKP government believes, but simply because of a disciplinary code, a disciplinary law, in accordance with EU criteria. Because if we believe that there is a positive civilization in this disciplinary code, we think, in accordance with Law 657, it's being made in accordance with disciplinary regulations for civil servants who work under the Law 657, but they needed to know that we can't provide discipline with regulations and laws alone. And with his practice so far, I don't think they would have forced the Turkish Armed Forces to serve in an uneasy, low moral, disorganized way. For him, we think it's a law not to believe, but to conform to an EU criteria. I'd like to give you a few examples of this method to remind you. We bring in motions to investigate the problems of society and our country, before there are more dangers, before there are more killings, before there are floods, without earthquakes, before doctors are killed, before women are killed; these motions are coming from us and other opposition parties, but until there is a disaster, all our motions are rejected. We've filed a motion regarding the problems of these health workers, and they've been rejected. When a doctor was killed, a motion was made by the AKP, it was accepted. When there was a flood, when there was an earthquake... so your AKP MP friends and fellow citizens who followed them should know that the politician's duty is to investigate the problem before the problem arises... to bring suggestions to prevent the damage done by this problem, to make law, to take precautions. It hasn't been done until today. There were two motions, which came with AKP's proposals, which came after the catastrophes again, and I want to express our opinion on these two motions: One of them was the Commission for Investigation of Impacts. What have my dear friends come up with from the reports of the Research Commission on the Great Impacts? Pages of thousands of pages of reports, and PR studies on the process of February 28th, for the purpose of continuing the dictatorship that the AKP would like to establish and continue. Other than that, did you return the rights of those who were thrown into prisons on September 12th, those who were killed in torture, the villagers whose villages were evacuated on September 12th, the officers who were suspended by the Law of 1402, to return their rights as a result of this report? On September 12th, did you reveal the names of all the governors, the police chiefs who performed all the applications? You didn't do anything. Another motion was a disaster, and in Roboski, 34 citizens were bombed by Turkish Armed Forces; you set up a research commission again. If you notice, you're always setting up after disasters, either after disasters, or if there's a part of you that touches you, you're doing it to make a law so you can pretend to expose it and not touch yourself. You set up a commission, the commission worked. What happened to the report? Nothing. In three sentences, this is the institution that gives the order; we bring the person responsible to justice; we get this information from here, we get it out. Did you say that? You didn't. Despite the demands of all opposition parties, all NGOs, all citizens, you didn't do it. So the bottom line is, you can't maintain discipline in the TSK with the logic of bringing this bill with this law-making logic. You need to give up something first, and you need to know that in an institution, especially in the defence of the country, such as the Turkish Armed Forces, it's important that we provide discipline in the Turkish Armed Forces, which is very important for our country's unity, for its brotherhood and for its peace. But you should know you can't provide discipline with regulations. Because, in the purpose of the law, it's said that discipline comes at the beginning of the most vital issue in the TSK. Yes, discipline comes at the beginning of the most important issue in TSK. So, instead of making arrangements to keep the commanders of the Turkish Armed Forces from being locked up for days, months, years, and months according to these indictments, instead of doing inequalities, injustices, frauds to the Turkish Armed Forces, how would you maintain discipline, moral value, peace in the Turkish Armed Forces if you acted in an attitude that encouraged them so much in the last day -- in the last day, in the last day, in the last day, in the last day, why did it happen, I wonder -- in an attitude that encouraged them? I mean, we need to know that all of the lawmakers here can't achieve this unity, this pitch, this order, not just in the Turkish Armed Forces, but in all the institutions of the state. In the commission, we proposed some regulations regarding the rights and laws of those in charge, regarding their responsibilities, but they were not accepted. In the beginning, one of the things that we care about is that this disciplinary code changes, and again, the right of civil servants working at this institution to object to the disciplinary regulations of the military Supreme Government, and we said to change that. If you want to be civil, since our fellow civil servants are being tried in civil courts instead of being tried at the Military Supreme Administration Court, which the Constitutional Court has two verdicts on, let alone two, we have said that the institution they will object to due to disciplinary sentences would be civil courts, which we couldn't accept. We believe that what we need to do in the first place to maintain discipline in the Turkish Armed Forces is this, and we want to stress this once again: if you don't make an arrangement to end operations, indictments, evidence, and indictments based on these allegations, prosecutors and special authority courts -- instead of an institution that will defend the interests of the people of Turkey's people in the next few moments -- to make them an institution that will serve the interests of other countries or other maharaxes, then you will not be able to establish any kind of discipline, no moral nor will you will be able to bring about it. Since that's the case, I just want to tell you about the illegality of the Turkish Armed Forces. Other than that, in the cases of the KCK, which have been done to students who want to study without money, to the city municipalities -- and I'm going to tell you about it recently -- in cases with Eskişehir, Antalya, which continue with you, who prepares them, what gang prepares these falsified evidence, what gang prepares these indictments, and who does it, and if you don't shut down the special authorities who do it -- because you're still changing your name, where you're still doing it, what you're doing in other state institutions, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing in peace and what you're doing, my friends. Now, I'd like to remind those who claim to have the discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces with this regulation again. By the way, what happened when our Minister, Bkent Arinc Manisa, was the film in Ankara that sought to assassinate Çukurambar, and prepared for it, removed from circulation? With what will you prevent the unrest, the discipline you've created in the Turkish Armed Forces, simply using it as an excuse? Now, I'm not going to go on and on and on and on and on about all of our warnings, but we've been faced with an explanation that has amazed all of us in the last few days -- in which we're right -- that really means that we're right -- that we're right -- that we're right. If not, we're faced with a cautionary explanation that all citizens of Turkey should think about what they're going to be doing in the face of an exemplary explanation. Our Prime Minister is joining a television program, and he says, "I read without comment, my dear friends, my dear fellow citizens who are watching us: look, there's a landman in these -- the arresting officers -- he's got a sailor. Now, we don't have that many frigates and ships and so on and so forth, so we almost don't have any officers in command to send them there. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0049par0066	Have Bulent send Arinc.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0048par0067	The Prime Minister says, "Look, right now there are nearly 400 retired, decent officers, petty officers, almost all of whom are under arrest." There was a spy thing at one point. Now, especially the one that's a lot heavier than that, starting an organization, becoming a member of the organization. Now, if the evidence of such a thing is conclusive, you will be done with it, but if you don't have certain provisions, then you will have hundreds of officers, petty officers as members of the organization or as members of an organization, especially the Chief of Staff, and if you consider it that way, this place will upset the morale of the armed forces. How, then, will these people fight terrorism? Who says that? It's not me. It's not a year, it's not two years, it's not three years, it's eleven years Prime Minister. Now, friends, if that's what the Prime Minister of a country says, what should we do? What would this citizen do? What would these AKP MPs do? I suppose they'll think of what they're supposed to do at night and make a decision that's in the best interest of these people. I'd like to tell you another example. Recently, our Commission for Review of Prisons, Veli Ağbaba, Free Special, Nurettin Demir visited our prisoners who were arrested for espionage in İzmir, 350 people; 350 people, not one, not two, not 50, 350 people, and until this trial is filed, only 1 people have been tried for espionage in Turkey. If 350 people have been spying inside these Turkish Armed Forces and you've been in power for 11 years -- I don't want to say anything bad -- it's a shame -- something bad happened to my mouth.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0050par0069	Half the army's a spy, then.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0048par0070	So I wonder how this country will defend itself, how this country will build its own realm, its order, and these, my dear friends.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0050par0071	Or they're spies who call them "spy."
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0048par0072	Once again, we ask: On behalf of all Turkish Armed Forces, who are serving in the Turkish Armed Forces, fair, equal, waiting to be promoted according to merit, on behalf of all our citizens, we ask as all CHP MPs: Now, who is responsible for all of this? Is it us, the main opposition party, BDP, MHP, NGOs? Who's gonna fix this? We don't believe that the 40-point, 45-point, 50-point disciplinary regulations that we're going to talk about will provide peace, discipline anywhere without correcting them. As with every institution, you do everything you can to make the Turkish Armed Forces restless, low morale, disorganized, any time you want to use them. This plague will hang on your shoulders forever, my dear friends. And I want to talk about suicides. We've had a question proposal recently, and we've had an answer. 965 people have committed suicide in the last ten years in the Turkish Armed Forces. 85 others were killed by accident, so on average, more than 100 of our people commit suicide or commit suicide every year. We think most of them aren't suicides. A soldier named Nihat Bakır, who lived in İzmir Narlıdere, recently committed suicide while serving in the 105th Regiment in Tekirdağ Çorı. His funeral was delivered to his father. I read his file, his report. Bullet through the forehead, exited the neck. I don't know, I guess the military knows whether it's a G-3 rifle or a rifle, how to take it and shoot it. There's been a lot of unwanted incidents before that, too. Now, who's responsible for these suicides? So you might say the PKK is responsible for many of our lost soldiers. Is the PKK responsible for this too? Is it the CHP or the BDP or the MHP? Let him go out, one day, for God's sake, any minister of ours: either these are the ones responsible for this. These suicides come here to serve for no reason. Hunger, thirst, unemployment? They come in there laughing, they come in with drums, you deliver their dead. That's another suicide mission. We have a lot to talk about, but in retirement, our friends are going to make a motion, and we've already explained our thoughts on this motion. You're showing injustice and inequality here. You've taken back those who were thrown back into the army by the decision made by the President, the ministers, the Prime Minister's signature on the grounds that he wants to bring order of the Sharia, who wants to form a revolutionary power. You're doing everything in your power not to take back those who were thrown out of the army by the 71st blow, March 12th coup, September 12th coup. We've delivered it ten times in the Commission, we'll make an arrangement, we'll look into it. That's what the Commission said last time. Let's check again in the Commission. We've replaced the word, we've left these murderers on the side, we're taking care of that right. We did not have time again, my dear friends, but I would like to leave you to the consciences and minds of all lawmakers and to the minds of a man who told you about the order of law in the Middle Ages, and it was that, thanks to the police, which was developed at the time and performed a semi-legal function, people were going to prison without going through a trial. Yes, it is as if we are in the Middle Ages today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Police prosecutor, judge, prosecutor, cop. As long as you don't change this order, you won't be able to discipline anywhere. With all due respect, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0051par0080	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0052par0084	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the High Council of Peace and Democracy to draft the Disciplinary Code of Turkish Armed Forces 394. On this occasion, I salute all of you with love. I also wish God's mercy to the workers who died in the business accident in Gaziantep, and to their families my condolences. Law No. 1111/11/2011, Law 6252/2011, is required to make extenuating arrangements for the inadequacies and deficiencies that have been encountered in the application of the priced military service. In this framework, we discuss the remaining installments for those who have completed the period of six months or taken the first installment from those who have been approved to pay half the price specified by Article 46, or those who have not submitted the terms to the service until 15/6/2012, and those who have not submitted the first installment, and for others, they must pay the full amount of the amount prescribed for the period of one month. The Bedelli military has been brought up several times from 1927 to today, and these arrangements have been made. As noted in Article 72 of the Constitution, every healthy citizen is charged with the ministry of the country. The matters concerning the implementation of military service have been made clear in Law 1076. Based on this law, Code 1111 has been established under the Code of Reserve Officers and Reserve Military Officers. According to this law, two methods apply: to perform military service by paying the price or paying the exchange. We know that after 1927, the law of military service was passed. However, in 1987, 18,433 people took advantage of it according to Law 3358. In 1993, 35,000 citizens were taken advantage of according to Law 3802. In 1999, according to Law 4459, 72,000 people took advantage of paying military service. The latest arrangement did not respond to expectations. Only 10 per cent of the 460,000 people targeted have applied, which is equivalent to about 50,000 people. In fact, this point that we've come to, because the numbers in its most recent regulation and priced application are so high that the problem is still unresolved, it has also caused some concern in society. We also need to give those who have no financial power a chance, because the principle of being a social state is that they are 26-27 years old and that the price that needs to be paid should be reduced to 20,000 years of military age. Last year's Law No. 6252 was held at a high price of 30,000, with an age limit of 30. The goal here has not been achieved. All our warnings and suggestions have been ignored in no way. Now, we're in the same place because there wasn't a bill of law prepared for its purpose, and we're renegotiating the inadequacies of this bill here today, for whatever reason. That's actually the problem. If a year ago the debate on this law had been taken into account, more citizens today would have benefited from this right. It was estimated that 390,000 people would benefit from the law. Clearly, the number of applications is low, and some of the applicants are unable to pay those payments. I mean, we don't think the additive to the law is gonna be enough. We insist that military service should be carried out once in a sense of social state, equality principle and justice, without paying any price for citizens who have no money, without financial power, without paying any price, without paying any price in the Van earthquake. In that sense, he will eliminate the victim's injury by this law. In the latest arrangement on military service, both the high age limit and the high pay amount have put people in a difficult position who want to serve at a price. Mr. President, despite the fact that we, the Peace and Democracy Party, have demanded that military service be removed from force and constitutional guarantees in this law, no work has been done on this subject, nor has it been ruled out on the public's request and its will. Today, one of Turkey's major problems is mandatory military service. Fifteen months of mandatory military time has been made a torment for this country's citizen. The removal of the Janibari January was described as what the people called a military furnace in the previous years, but today that confidence has been damaged. Many have even hesitated that they do not want to send their child into the army. In Turkey, people express that they do not want to go if they do not have to. No one should be given military service against his will. Military service must be stopped from being mandatory. Of course, the inequality of recruitment, the conflicting process of 30 years, the suspicious soldier killings in barracks, brought to the point of not going to the army because of these growing concerns in society and rejecting military service. Today, the United Nations Commission for Human Rights is considered a basic human right by the European Parliament. However, Turkey is the only member of the Council of Europe who does not recognise conscientious rejection in internal law. In society, it is a democratic and human right to reject military service. Failure to accept a conscientious rejection causes problems in society. Those who declare a conscientious rejection in Turkey are constantly drafted and abandoned, tortured in military prisons, forced to live as second-class citizens in social life. If a person does not want to shed blood, does not want to kill, does not want to serve because of his thoughts or because of his religious outlook, Parliament must first listen to that voice. The demands and demands of this direction of society must be taken into consideration. Mr. President, in the last 20 years, the deaths of soldiers in barracks have become a problem in itself. The Turkish Armed Forces report the death of a suspected soldier almost every day. The cause of death is called suicide or accident. In the last week, the bodies of six people have been delivered to their families. The last incident took place in Isparta. An expert sergeant shot Birkay Çetinkaya, the gendarme he was arguing with, with a service pistol. The life-threatening threat of the shot soldier remains. Er Emre Ersöz in Kandira F Type F Prison on January 19th; Er İbrahim Acar in Gaziantep Logisticistical Support Command; January 22, İzmir Yenifoça, Yasin Simsek, rifle suicide; January 23rd, Private Selim Kara in Manisa Turgutlu; January 23, Manisa Sarıgöl district, Adem Sarıkaya; January 26th, Haqkari. No serious statement has been made so far from the Turkish Armed Forces and the government for suspected deaths. Looking back, 491 soldiers have been said to have committed suicide in the last five years alone, while 129 soldiers have died in gun accidents. In addition to the conflicting process of the past five years, 1,108 soldiers have lost their lives in the line of duty, 263 of them are officers, petty officers, and 845 have been reported to be private and private. However, it is even more remarkable that most of those who have died suspiciously are Kurds. The number of soldiers killed by gun accidents in 2012 is said to have increased by about two times more than in 2007 and by about four times more than in 2011. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs we're interviewing are known to be below the standards of the European armed forces of the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Code. In fact, nothing has changed in the amendment, and the only thing that's changed is to move things around or attach sentences to even more subtlely different substances. The goal remains the same. Although the law has been passed with the definition of the penalty for the room, more severe practices have been brought to avoid a lack of discipline. Military punishment and disciplinary law are so strict that the point of endurance is the subject of discussion. Under the name of authority and the sense of command is so flawed that many soldiers and staff who can't stand to insult or harm people's personality are depressed by psychological disorders. Discipline in the military has nothing to do with law or humanity because there are so many strict laws in the military that it doesn't end with counting. Families who hand their children over to Turkish officers with drums and drums say they don't know their children on the way back. Who can even claim that after returning from the army, they could not get rid of the feeling of nothingness for a long time, that thousands of young people who were almost ready to say hello to what they were asked to say, and who would make a great effort not to address it as my commander at the end of each sentence? As a result of applications to the European Court of Human Rights, disciplinary sentences for soldiers and civilian personnel in the Turkish Armed Forces have been violated by the European Convention on Human Rights, violating the right to security and freedom of one's rights. Military punishment and disciplinary law are so strict that the point of endurance is now considered suspicious beyond discussion. However, no study is being approached by understanding of the iron without being examined. We recommend at least three disciplinary officers, not one disciplinary officer, on disciplinary committees under Article 35 of the bill. Every elected disciplinary officer must be chosen from the judge's class. Those who are not of the judge's class should not be appointed disciplinary officer. For example, it has been adopted that a restraining order from service to privates and privates does not count as a term of military service. As well as the right to file a mistrial in the military administration court, it's relative. Citizens in the military do not intentionally commit crimes, they do not engage in disciplinary failures and so on. There are reasons for a person's lack of discipline or guilt. Disciplinary crime has been committed, it has not followed the rules, it is not a deterrent to justify room arrest or any other punishment. In fact, just because he didn't follow the rules, you'd make it more complicated than solving the problem by forcing him to regret it. Therefore, punishments such as room imprisonment must be completely eliminated. It could be during the war, it could be during the peace period. It's a shameful form of action, a crime of discipline. When someone commits a verb that will cause discipline, it must reveal the way that verb works, the cause, and the consequences. Of course there will be junior relations in the military, but these relationships should not be based on strict rules and strict ground rules. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the symptoms and the principles that citizens will hesitate to send their children into the military no matter what the problem, regardless of the reasons for military deaths, without taking precautions, without responding to the public's demands and demands for military service. So... We know everyone has to be in the army, but it's not forced. What's done today looks a little like him. Because it is known that a citizen or a student or other group who can pay 30,000 lira still has concerns about it. And while I express my belief that these laws can be changed, I offer my respect and love to the Honorable Council again.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit02spe0053par0113	Thank you, Mr. Zenderlioglu. Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0053par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 394. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal will speak on behalf of the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0054par0007	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law. I hereby salute your high council. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died today in Gaziantep, and to our wounded with immediate healing. May God never show such suffering again. Dear MPs, the Turkish Armed Forces are the armed state force that has claimed the duty of defending the state of the Republic of Turkey against any threat from within and outside. The Turkish Armed Forces are ready to intervene in crises that threaten world peace, as well as political decisions in its region. The state of the Republic of Turkey, which adheres to the principle of peace in the world, does not have violent intentions. However, he uses his independence, his country, his nation, to use its power in line with the common ideals of his international institutions when his honor is threatened. Turkey must have strong defence opportunities from the time of peace in a region of uncertain threats and risks and have its armed forces ready and strong against possible threats. Dear lawmakers have shown the Turkish army as a guarantee to take its nation to the level of modern civilizations by forming a national and independent state of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who started the national struggle, saying "It is either will or death!" So our army is a steeled expression of our unity, our strength and our ability, our patriotism. At the same time, our army is an impossible guarantee of defeating the Turkish soil and the systematic work we're putting forward to justify the ideal of Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our army's heroic soldiers are our favorites. As they fought heroically in Çanakkale, in the State War for the integrity of our country, so today they are the nameless heroes who will sacrifice their lives and blood in the fight against separatist terror, which means our unity, our unity, and our country's integrity. In peace and war, on land, on air, and at sea, they are our values that know more about the reputation of the Turkish banner than their own. Dear lawmakers, as the EC PARTY government, we show our efforts to constantly instill and motivate the sense of belonging to the Turkish army and all our military brothers. As part of his vision of 2023, our determination to professionalise in the military will continue. If the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act, prepared from here, becomes law, there will be an effective disciplinary system in the Turkish Armed Forces, its facility, its protection, and its maintenance. The disciplinary provisions imposed on Turkish Armed Forces personnel have been different and disorganized in the Court of Disciplinary Courts No. 477, Judicial Law and Disciplinary Crime and Punishments. The disciplinary provisions imposed on Turkish Armed Forces personnel have been a subject of trial in the European Court of Human Rights at different times, particularly in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, which states that the prison sentences for military persons are against the European Convention on Human Rights. In this scope, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the right to freedom and security of the person has been violated in the cases of Darici-Turkey (2005) and Polatlı-Turkey (2011), in which the disciplinary action of the Court of Military Penal Code has agreed to the application of the person sentenced to room imprisonment under Article 162 to 191. As a result of this law, all these negativitys are considered to be avoided. Dear MPs, discipline is at the top of the most vital issues in the Turkish Armed Forces. In this regard, disciplinary measures should be considered to vary in nature according to other institutions and organisations. For its discipline, its preservation, and its continuation are an essential rule for the Turkish Armed Forces to carry out its duty. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak briefly of the articles of the law. The Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act includes officers, petty officers, special police officers, expert soldiers, contracted soldiers, privates and military students, and civil officers, as long as it remains hidden from military General Command and Coast Guard personnel. In this law, authorities have been appointed to give you the basis for the use of the right of discretion in disciplinary law and for disciplinary action. In addition to being a disciplinary officer, other powers of discipline and protection have been arranged for the senior disciplinary commanders, other than the conditions in which they can serve disciplinary action, and the authorities in charge of disciplinary action. Dear MPs, including the reserve officers, all officers, petty officers, special police officers, and the types of disciplinary fines that can be handed down to the underprivileged officers and privates, have been redacted by the authorities and the forms of execution of punishments. The disciplinary board has also organised the form of an appeal against the sentences, the final punishment and the issues related to the decision given as a result of the appeal and the application to the judicial path to punishments. It has also been changed to the board of diciplins (also referred to in Article 77) of the Military Law of 1111, and also, by adding a temporary clause to Law 1111, the harms of our citizens have been removed from the practice of military service, which was brought in November 30, 2011 with the Law number 6252. Dear MPs, the disciplinary legislation has been met in one law, the civil servants have been excluded from the scope and the disciplinary provisions of Law 657 have been determined as the basis for the implementation of disciplinary provisions for our civil servants, all crimes and actions that constitute disciplinary action between officers and petty officers, who have been allowed to release their records and to give them a record of service, as well as the disciplinary officer, have been defined as the disciplinary officer's supervisor, and the court has been appointed as the court's executive court's office, and the court's execution of the court's office has been re-declared and the court's proceedings have been suspended at the same time. He wishes this bill to be legalized, to strengthen his sense of obedience in the Turkish Armed Forces and to act in accordance with the law, to be a blessing to our Turkish Armed Forces and our country, and to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0055par0024	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. On behalf of the government, National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0056par0028	Mr. President, I'm here to announce the opinion of our government on the draft Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act 394 and the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Military Law. The disciplinary provisions imposed on Turkish Armed Forces personnel have been distributed in the Law on Disciplinary Courts 477, under the Military Penal Code 1632. There are also regulations that allow disciplinary supervisors or disciplinary courts to sentence you to room or probation for the current arrangements. Under current legislation, disciplinary measures against Turkish Armed Forces personnel have been moved to the judiciary, and the results have been moved to the European Court of Human Rights at different times. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the prison sentence for military personnel is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. The number of cases filed against the European Court of Human Rights is 60. Ten of these cases have turned against our country and others are on the agenda of the court. If the bill is adopted, the application to the European Court of Human Rights has also been carried out according to the basis of the rights violations. A member of parliament says, "What's the rush of this law?" What can being condemned to the European Court of Human Rights every day bring to Turkey? If we change the rule of law that leads to conviction, will Turkey's reputation not rise? Isn't it the duty of MPs to raise Turkey's reputation? Thus, this law was born of a need. In view of the principles of trust and legality of governance, actions that constitute undefined discipline in the existing system are defined one by one by considering the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces. Again, a superior disciplinary supervisor has been granted disciplinary measures given by disciplinary officers, and a disciplinary committee of a superior command has been granted the opportunity to object to disciplinary sentences given by the disciplinary committee. The judicial path to disciplinary action in the current system was closed. However, the current regulation has been granted the right to file a mistrial against disciplinary sentences against the Military Supreme Administration Court. In Article 129 of our Constitution, officers and other public officials are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution and laws. Disciplinary decisions can't be excluded from jurisdiction. The provisions of the armed forces and judges and prosecutors are sealed. The Constitution, which can be referred to as a different application, has been ruled by the Constitution. The 21st article can also be fined according to the disciplinary point of the current bill. This sentence is subject to judicial supervision. The judge who came to you with a file on this matter, was he or was he not given a punishment in accordance with the law to examine one by one, including each given warning and reprimand? If he's given an illegal sentence, he'll call it off. Therefore, since he has not completed the necessary points for leaving the military, he will again decide that these military personnel will continue to serve in the Armed Forces. Another arrangement is about paying military service. As you know, there were two installments, including the other half during the application and the other half within six months of the application date, at the price of 30,000 euros, in accordance with the demands of those in charge of Law 6252. However, about 2,500 citizens who have completed the payment period for the second installment have been removed under the law. It is clear that this is the cause of the victims of our citizens. A new rights have been granted to those who have completed the six-month period prescribed for the second installment by paying half of the price specified by the arrangement and who have not submitted the terms for the first installment and who have not applied until June 15, 2012. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made statements about the suicides in the Turkish Armed Forces, many of the oratories here. What we say about them is that the Turkish Armed Forces are the army of this nation, out of this nation. Whatever disease there is in the Turkish community, know that the same disease exists within the Turkish Armed Forces because it is part of its nation, not outside of it. After reviewing the suicide statistics published by Turkey's Statistical Agency throughout Turkey, the country also appears to have moved to Turkish Armed Forces, an integral part of the state of Turkey, including suicide tendencies and behavior -- age group, education levels, geographical region, and the distribution of the province. In terms of suicide behavior, Turkish Armed Forces personnel have no different epidemiological data than civilian samples for similar age and gender groups. The 20-24 age range across Turkey is one of the most age periods of suicide, with military service being carried out in this age group, and it is estimated that suicide behavior can be carried out into the military environment. Depending on the years, there has been a reduction in suicide rates from 32,000 per 100,000 to 15 per 100,000 in the last decade, some 50 per cent. Despite all measures taken, any accident that resulted in the death of the troops is being given information to the families of the people who died when the incident occurred through garrison commanders, and they are being invited to the unit where the incident occurred if the family demands it, and they are being provided to listen to the manner of the accident, and as far as possible, there is no doubt in the minds. In all cases that have resulted in death, there has been a criminal investigation, as well as an administrative investigation, and every incident is being recorded. In addition, the autopsy report and the prosecution's review of the family's request for documents other than given information is being briefed on the request of documents from the judicial authorities, and the contact information of the office of the criminal investigation is provided. The deceased's family has been told what their legal rights are, helping them with the issues they need to follow and the documents they need to draw up. So far, our records have not found any unsubsubstantiated or unsubstantiated incidents that have not been investigated. Suicides, scientifically proven to be contagious, are also quickly learned and affected by other parts of society, given the opportunities for communication and communication today. This increases the risk of suicide contagion for the country as well as for the Turkish Armed Forces. It is also considered that suicides and suicides should be seen in the media as a means of preventing the contagion as much as possible. Mr. President, good lawmakers, law is a living phenomenon. So there's nothing more natural than any norm to be altered in the event that any arrangement can't adapt to this state of life. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been charged with the coup and lawsuits of our Turkish Armed Forces. First of all, as the Parliament's research commission report clearly states, the coup is the theft and abolition of the right to governance that the nation does not give. The Turkish Armed Forces, one of the most trusted institutions in the nation, can't be expected to steal or take away the people's rights. A gang does the coup. In this gang is the press, the university, the businessman, the politician, and there are people in the Turkish Armed Forces. Other elements of the gang want the people to assume that the Turkish Armed Forces are responsible for the coup, but the nation has always shown with the discretion of the Turkish Armed Forces that it is not true and that it has never given the politicians who support the junta the right to govern and the right to power. Mr. President, there is no difference between those who say, "If the terms are complete in 1960 and today, the revolution will be legitimate." There is no difference between those who say, "The violence comes at a time when the pressure is increasing."
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0057par0043	You're a coupger.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0056par0044	We want to strengthen Turkey with the national unity and brotherhood project. This is an equal, brother-seeing project. Our nation is well-known and puts people where they deserve it, for those of us who see things differently, such as the age of racism and ignorance. The Commission for Research also has the coups; the enforcer discredits the politician. Again, the opinion there cannot be inclined to achieve judicial results, such as the study of the Parliament, identifying criminals. Is that true? There is no search for criminals through the investigation of the Parliament, and there is no bringing some people to justice. But here, the orator who came in, you did research, where are the suspects? You didn't hand it over to the prosecutor. Those who say differently in the report say differently here.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0057par0046	You're September 12th, okay?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0056par0047	Thus, our nation is well - acquainted with those who speak the way it pleases in every environment, and when it comes to the polls, it knows very well who is in charge of the service to the people and to Hakk. I wish this law to be a blessing to our nation, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0058par0050	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of him, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0059par0052	Dear President...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0058par0053	Mr. Moroglu, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0059par0054	Our dear Minister has made a statement on what I've said, and I'd like to make a correction. Because in my words, you can also look at them -- why have you never brought them to trial? What we're saying is, are the governors, police chiefs, torturers identified by name and practice as the result of this study? You have not even carried out this assignment, and you have not made the necessary arrangements to expose them. I want to make a correction.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0060par0055	He's on the books, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0058par0056	It's all right, sir, you've filed a report, and we've all learned it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0061par0057	Mr. President, we didn't hear it, but it's here.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0060par0058	We heard, we got it.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0062par0059	Mr. President, whatever our friend is, he'll fix it, he'll fix it.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0063par0060	You fixed it, sir. On behalf of him, İstanbul MP Aydın Ayadın, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0064par0063	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment on this, as the esteemed MPs, the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Bill, and the priced military offer offered by me, have been combined. I hereby salute your high council. Before we get into this, I would like to point out that the Republican People's Party is facing all kinds of tortures and tortures, all kinds of organizations, all kinds of revolutions, and they will always be against it, but I want everyone to know that the Republican People's Party is very sensitive to fair trial. Mr. President, high-profile recruits always come in front of us every five years, six years, and they sit on the agenda. So far, the fourth was discharged, and the last time this priced soldier was released was a year ago -- in 2011 -- we had a law proposal; I had a personal law proposal, and Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, vice president of the Republican People's Party, had a law proposal. We also said in the commission that day that the Bedelli Military Law, which was legalized by your votes, would not produce the desired result of the 30-year-old and 30,000 Turkish liras, and that the income you predicted would not come from the Bedelli Military Law. Because you were expecting a income of 12, 15 billion Turkish liras, and you were hoping that 400,000 people would benefit from the Bedelli Military Law, but it was seen in practice that these accounts didn't hold up. The Bedelli Military Law, issued with 30 years of age and 30,000 Turkish liras, was able to apply not only for 400,000 people, but for 70,000 people, because it was a 30-year-old limit, and the 30,000-dollar fee was not for everyone to pay. In this regard, the Bedelli Military Law, which you have passed, unfortunately, has failed to achieve its goal. The fourth one happened, failed; and now you bring it up again, and you say: "Those who want to take advantage of this law, who can't apply for it, and who can't pay a certain fee, but who don't pay for the rest of the installments." But the same age, and the same price. We offered a law again, and we said, "This Bedelli Military Law was not successful, and the reason why it didn't succeed is because it cost too much, it cost too much. Today, not everyone can find the 30,000 liras, not everyone can take it and pay it to the treasury -- even if it's on the price -- and not in the 30th year, but in the case of its withdrawal to 28th, or 27 percent, the government would be able to take advantage of it. But we saw on the commission that you weren't warm to that either. It'll be our motion on this matter. If we really want to prevent this buildup -- there's a pile in these young people who want to go to the army -- if we want to melt this pile, we have to bring it back to 28, or 27. And the 30,000 Turkish liras you requested is a high sum, which, as we predicted in our law proposal, is to divide by 21,000 Turkish liras and three equal installments, and we expect your positive votes. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have proposed on 9 September 2011 and then on the Bedelli Military Law, which we gave on 11 December 2012, that the age limit is 28, the price is 21,000 Turkish lira; those whose income is less than 12 thousand lira, or those who have no income at all, have to go to military service for free, because there is a belief that the Constitution shall not go to the military, but those who have no money will have to go to military service. If there's a pile, there's this pile -- then we have to be able to make sure that the children of families with less than 10,000 Turkish liras do their military duties at a price. After giving me our proposal for the law, I received many e-mails: Abdullah Sun of Mardin, Hamit Ay of Şırnak, Faruk Yilmaz Yilmaz of Kırşehir, Saffet Gül of Tripoli, they say: "We have no money, but we want to take advantage of this law. If there is an equality in the Constitution, then all must benefit from the principle of equality of the Constitution, not from those who have money. I agree with them; the law of the Republic of Turkey, which has no money, and the Constitution, has to be treated equally. It is expected that those who have no money, who have no money, who have no money, who have low income or who have no income, should take advantage of the Bedelli Military Act without paying any price. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, they all want to go to the army after they finish college, but when they apply to military offices, they can't be drafted immediately because they have savings. That's why people, those young people, they either start their own business or they get a job. Then when it comes time to serve in the military, you say, "Come and go to the army, whether you have a job or you have a job, you have a family, you have a livelihood, you have children, you have to go to the army." If we've adopted the transition from one side to professional service, and we've implemented it, we have young people who want to go to the army, and there's always a good chance that if we do it the way we did it today, it'll be useful if we keep its priced age at 30, and we try to enforce the 30 thousand lira requirement in order to benefit from paying military service, which I assure you won't achieve. When you have 400,000 people waiting, 70,000 people have applied, and this time 20,000 or 30,000 people, 40,000 people, if you are waiting, the maximum number of applicants will not exceed a thousand. For a thousand people, I think it's very wrong, it's not true. Come, let us remove these obstacles to our young men who want to go into the army. He couldn't go to the army for any reason, he's got a job, he's got a family, or he's got a job, so let's not cut them off from those jobs again, for a price, let's draw the age limit back not 30, but 28. And it's not 30,000 Turkish liras, so let's make it $21,000 and divide it into three equal installments. That way, we can get rid of that pile-up, and we can get rid of the job, or we can get rid of the barrier in front of those young people who got a job, and we're going into professional service anyway. Also, we have young graduate friends, young brothers, children who want to go to the army, and we'll clear their path, and you can contribute to our motions to replace this amendment with ours. I wish you all the best in this law to our country, to our nation, to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0065par0075	Thank you, Mr. Aya morning. Moving on to QA. Mr. Serindağ? No. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0066par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our friends at the Turkish Armed Forces Rehab Center are asking if there will be a definition of martyrdom and veteranship. Do you plan to collect these under a roof in many laws, the arrangements for martyr families, veterans and invalids? Are you thinking of resolving the issue? They have 39-40 types of rights. The ministries, institutions, and organizations where they can use these rights are very different. Do you plan to collect these under one roof? On the other hand, there's a problem with specialists, veteran carabinieri. These people serve the Turkish Armed Forces with dignity, but neither in orders, nor in celebrations, nor in rank, nor in hospitals, nor in terms of resolving their problems when they leave the profession. Do you plan to make arrangements for these expert gendarmes, specialists? What's going to happen to these people? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0067par0083	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0068par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you have stated from the Turkish Armed Forces that you are engaged in extensive work to address the victims of soldiers who have been cut off without the approval of ministers or verdicts other than the AGE decisions. Is this study you're talking about finalized? When do you plan to bring a legal arrangement to the agenda of Congress to address the victims in this matter? Mr. Secretary, as a member of the government... there was a mass suicide attempt yesterday in Muğla. Six teenagers between 15 and 17 have attempted suicide. What caused it, why did it happen? Do you have any explanations or insights about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0069par0089	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0070par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to ask the same question, but in addition to asking, these expert sergeants, specialists, are not represented at the Army Aid Association, although they are the original members of OYAK. Do you plan to make an arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0071par0094	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0072par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in your speech on the stand earlier, you have stated that you have done very serious work under the so-called project of unity and brotherhood. The opening work that began with this project in 2009 is closely monitored by the beloved Turkish nation at what point it is today. It recently appeared in the media, where a Deputy Prime Minister made a vow to the public that he did not know what the recent commitments were. Do you know what commitments are being made to this country's talks between the AKP and the PKK as Minister of National Defence? If you know, can you honestly say these things to our beloved nation? My second question is... your work on the rights of decent and retired soldiers has been presented to the Prime Minister. Can you tell me where this work is at? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0073par0100	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0074par0102	Mr. Secretary, a base was established last year by the signature of the Secretary of State and the American Ambassador. Unfortunately, the government denied who this base belonged to, and then in Chicago, the President of the United States told our Secretary of State that it would be transferred to NATO in 2014, but despite any application, your ministry did not allow us to enter the base that you claim was NATO. As an elected MP -- and you're using this word of national will -- why don't you allow us to enter the base of the province as MPs, is there something you're hiding? Last year, we visited there with 10 women, and it was not allowed again, and the Ministry of National Defence said we had no authority. Now, what is it you're hiding from the lawmakers on this matter? I'm worried about him.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0073par0103	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0075par0105	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, a few issues... especially for our citizens working abroad, the foreign exchange and military service have increased to 10,000 euros. They have a crisis, they have serious problems paying for it, and they have a obligation to get out of Turkish citizenship. Will there be any attempt to bring this down? On the other hand, the rangers have shown some really important heroics in the fight against terrorism. Do you, therefore, have a thorough work to address the problems of these rangers? In addition, these Patriots have been placed, but there has been no presentation to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, especially on threats and risks. Do you intend to give the Grand National Assembly of Turkey any information on the deployment of these Patriots, where do the risks and threats come from? Because while other countries are sending troops by decision in their own parliaments, the fact that there has been no assessment or information about it in our own Parliament is frankly a lack of national will. On this matter, I'd like you to inform Parliament...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0076par0110	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0077par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, NATO's new security concept at the 2010 Lisbon Summit was expressed by the concept of full security. Total security -- as you know or as I hope you know -- is an approach that balances state security and human safety and tries to push it together. Unfortunately, in our country, we see the growing security approach of the AKP government in recent years has become authoritarian and oppressive, limiting basic rights and freedoms, away from human safety. Under your Ministry, do you have any attempts, predictions, plans to bring human safety into the center and thus bring NATO's concept of integrity security into existence? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0078par0115	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0079par0117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The international arms trade agreement is on the agenda in the United Nations to take measures to supply arms to terrorist organizations internationally. The second session will take place at the end of March at the United Nations. Now, Turkey supports this agreement. I'm joining the Global Movement Parliamentary Board of Directors. In recent reports, however, there are reports that Turkey, including Sudan, has provided weapons that are out of control. We'd like a statement from Mr. Secretary for the record. Because it's very important, it's offensive to Turkey. And with him, I'll be able to get the answer to those involved. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0080par0120	Thank you, Mr. Irbet. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0081par0122	Mr. President, the Minister's explanation for the suicides was really interesting. I propose to the Minister that he declares that the number of recruits in ten years is average to the population of Turkey, and how many people have committed suicide in Turkey in ten years, and how many have committed suicide in the military? We all deserve to know how much this place reflects. And suicide is an infectious disease. He used a phrase like that. What does he advise us to avoid this infectious disease? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0080par0124	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0082par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. From 2002 to today, is the rise of the Turkish Armed Forces, or the loss of reputation, for years? If there's a loss of reputation, what's in it for political power? Question two: Patriots are a weapon. And according to our Constitution, it is subject to the permission of the House to bring in foreign soldiers and weapons abroad or abroad, and regarding the arrival of these Patriots in our country, the Parliament's opinion, the approval, and its subsidiary. Isn't that a constitutional offense? In that sense, can you give me a legal basis that does not require the permission of the House? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0083par0130	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0132	Mr. President, most respected members of our National Assembly, I salute you all. I'll try to answer the questions as long as I can. Of course, I'd like to brief you on the Patriot missiles first. The request for the deployment of Patriot batteries in our country has been envisioned as a precautionary measure against the threat of ballistic missiles from Syria and is fully defensive. The Patriots will be referred and operated under the principle, rule and constraints under the approval of the NATO Council. The deployment of Patriot batteries will take place within NATO. With that respect, there is no need for a separate Parliamentary decision, in the same way as the practices that have been done before in Turkey. Two batteries from the United States, two batteries from Germany, two from the Netherlands, and six batteries from the Netherlands. Of these six batteries, the American batteries will be deployed to Gaziantep Τe, the German batteries to Kahramanmarash, and the Dutch batteries to İncirlik and Adana. The number of personnel required to operate these batteries is around 1,100. ▪ Why did you ask for them? It is the thought. Look, in Akçakale, five of our citizens were killed by a fire opened by Syria. We know what opportunities Syria has. So even if there's a 1% chance or a thousand-to-one chance that he's using a missile from there against his own citizen? He's using it. Is Turkey using it against him or not? We've seen the sample of the maple. Even if it was a thousand-to-one missile, if one of our citizens was a martyr, wouldn't it be asked, that there was such an opportunity in NATO, and you were a member of NATO since 1952, if you weren't going to use NATO's resources at such times, when would you not be asked to use it? NATO is a common defence system. It is Turkey's right to use these weapons within the common defence system, and no one needs to feel uncomfortable about it. If there is no intention of attacking Turkey, then there is no possibility of using these batteries. That's what happened in previous applications, and that's what's going to happen after that. Let no one doubt Turkey's intentions. As in the country, Turkey wants peace in this geography and in the world. To answer what İrbeç Hoxha said: We are against international law, we do not export weapons to any country. Therefore, there is no export of arms to Yemen, nor to Sudan, nor to another country, against international law.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0085par0137	You're sending him to Syria. You're sending out all the weapons in Syria, all the weapons used by terrorists. Be honest, we're supporting you. Say it.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0138	Mr. President, another question is... as you know earlier, under Act 6191 -- released on March 10, 2011 -- the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 926 has been added to its temporary Article 32. With this clause: From March 12, 1971 to the date of the publication of this law, there will be a period of administrative proceedings closed to judicial control or a increase of service from the date of the dissolutions of the Turkish Armed Forces to the date of which this clause was terminated from the date of the dissolution of its ties to the Turkish Armed Forces, which will be considered to be passed by the Turkish Armed Forces. The same cheerful exemplar, the officer and the petty officer's class, rank and rank, is paid the premiums to the security institution on the basis of the coefficient on the date they applied to the Ministry of National Defence. According to their status, the same cheerful exemplars and petty officers are paid pensions, as are their own precedents. Those who have not earned retirement are appointed to the investigative staff of public institutions and organizations. According to their status, the same class, rank, and other financial rights are paid to the senior officer or petty officer at the headquarters according to these laws. Now, in these, we say that the House has passed a law for closed proceedings, which has been passed. Now, the other demands of our friends were to ask if you would bring a pardon for the open road, would you do a study? That's it, it's not as easy as the other one. It's easy to make a legal arrangement for closed judicial procedures, because you say: You don't give this person the right to defend. The right to defend is sacred. Right or wrong? Is he right or wrong? Let him go in front of the court to defend himself. Therefore, for those who were cut off by order of the chiefs of martial law during the days of the martial law, we have brought this right to 6191. They went to trial themselves against open proceedings, contested those decisions, so the trial refused. What's to be done from now on? This needs a lot of thinking, thinking about what to bring to the Armed Forces, what to do with it, what to do with it, what to do with it. After that, I think a decision has to be made. One other thing... I've repeated it many times or many times again because the same questions come from Agha. The satellite radar was set up to contribute to NATO ballistic missile defence architecture, which has different elements in order to contribute to decisions made at the NATO Lisbon Summit in 2010.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0086par0142	It's still not on NATO's website.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0143	If not, NATO would not have declared that NATO had gained its ability to perform temporary implementation at the Chicago Summit. Neither does NATO take over the abilities of Germany, nor does the radar in question...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0087par0144	This is not a NATO base, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0145	Look, I'm the one in charge, I'm the one in negotiations with NATO, I'm the one in NATO's meetings, I'm the one in NATO's international meetings. After that...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0087par0146	Did you speak the truth about that?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0147	Well... if you know about this, you don't have to ask, because you're asking questions, and you're saying, "We don't know about this, so let me know if you're in charge."
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0088par0148	We know, Mr. Secretary, that we know better than you do.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0149	We're giving you this information...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0089par0150	He can't travel in the mountains of our country, MPs.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0151	And yet you say, if you know it, then there is no answer to the questions known.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0090par0152	You have delivered this land to Israel, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0153	These people know who's meeting with the Israelis, so these people...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0090par0154	You're fooling these people, you're cheating on these people, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0155	There is a good saying: We have no doubt about our own absorption. In that way, let those who doubt it consider it. Israel also knows who is with him, and so does this nation. We've always been on the side of the law.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0090par0156	It's you, it's you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0157	It's the radar working principle that...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0091par0158	Who's the spherical shield protecting? Is the oppressed protecting the people?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0092par0159	Calm down, please, listen to the answers.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0160	Mr. President, as you can see, these do not wish to be informed by the question, but rather to announce their own words.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0093par0161	You're in league with the killers, protecting the killers. You're protecting the people who slaughtered Palestinians, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0162	But there's a press conference, you can go all the way out there, you can talk to the press, but if you've asked questions in Congress, you can listen to the answer. Did I interfere while you were asking questions? So when I'm giving you the answer, right or wrong, why are you interfering? That's not true. You have to respect the question as much as I respect yours. If you know, there's no need to answer what you know.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0094par0163	Mr. Secretary, why are you deflecting such an obvious fact? Isn't this base of the Globe to protect Israel?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0164	Another issue: Specialists are represented by the OYAK General Assembly. Another thing is, what rights do you bring to the chiefs of staff? Look, even in the current law, I'm reading from the laws in addition to the disciplinary code, not the disciplinary code: the fifth sentence added to the sentence after the sentence of Article 10 of the Uzman Erbass Act was added: "In addition, cancer, tuberculosis, chronic kidney failure and people who needed long-term treatments such as mental disease would not be shown on the basis of health board reports, in sums and if they didn't go through three years in practice, they would not be able to receive more than 90 days in the past. He had cancer -- God forbid -- I'm sorry, I can't take advantage of you. It's not like that now. In cases such as cancer, tuberculosis, they can be subject to treatment, rest or change of air, not necessarily for more than three years.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0094par0166	He's lost 25 poor people in Opium. Who's to blame for them?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0167	Again, those subjected to treatment, rest and change of air, again, are required to pass 90 days during a contract year, provided they are not in total and actual three years, as well as those who have been treated in treatment institutions, except for those who are treated for monthly or monthly maternity leave, including those who have suffered from cancer, tuberculosis, chronic kidney failure, and health board reports that they require long-term treatment. Again, martyrdom and martyrdom... The martyrdom was Mr. Turkoglu's question. It's not easy to define martyrdom and veteranship, you feel it. Why? What's that you're saying? By God... so we believe that the death of heaven in return is martyrdom, a death without paradise is not martyrdom. That's what we believe.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0094par0169	How will you know if it's heaven or not?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0170	That's not written anywhere. And the title of martyr to no one... it's a spiritual element. You know how you said you wouldn't include the rules of religion in other rules?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0094par0171	And Allah knows it; will you then know?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0172	The definition of martyrdom is a law between one's faith and the Lord's. The situation is very messy, very true. It's very true to give away rights in many places, but with the procedure done at the time of our government, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy on all these martyrs and veterans has been established as the sole head of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and all these arrangements are being carried out within its scope and within its framework, followed from there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, in the final sentence, there is no meeting between the PKK and the AK PARTY. The state's main task, its duty, is to negotiate with the relevant institutions in the fight against terrorism, and its other extensions are held by the talks, not by the EC PARTY. Look, bringing peace to the people, bringing peace... that means the one who wants peace wants victory. Look, staying out of a fight... don't you follow? In this case, people are hopeful. Why? He's got hope for the future. Why? So there wouldn't be a fight. Look, we've made it very clear that the son of the man you disarmed and his father accepts condolences under the Turkish flag. The mother of the person you disarmed, the father of you, your brother, is an integral part of you. So, you fight this fight, and...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0095par0177	Mr. Secretary, in exchange for what?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0178	When you fight, you have to understand the sadness of the people who killed your children.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0095par0179	They're what everyone knows, what you know, Mr. Secretary, tell them.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0180	The National Union and Brotherhood Project has one view of 75 million, the brotherhood. (AK PARTI) Therefore, those who commit illegal acts go to the judiciary, and the rest, together with our nation, we carry Turkey together as the leading country of this geography as the 21st century. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0096par0182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0097par0183	Mr. President, this is Mr. Secretary... 1,100 foreign soldiers are coming about the Patriots.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0184	That's right, it's close to 1,100.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0097par0185	Look, I can give you... this is what you can do under the NATO treaty, but these soldiers -- the Grand National Assembly of Turkey clearly represents our sovereignty -- to at least show respect for the arrival of foreign soldiers by giving the Parliament some information... I told you that. Therefore, the decision to send troops to the Dutch Parliament has been made, and the fact that the Turkish Grand National Assembly has not been briefed, I find it to be a deficit to lawmakers and national sovereignty. These are important issues, and it would be good if you could provide information directly to the truth, not through a question.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0098par0186	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0084par0187	Next week, our government -- probably Tuesday -- will give us some information about this. Thank you for reminding me.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0098par0188	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0099par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0098par0190	Mr. Moroglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0099par0191	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction on what I just stated, and I'd like an explanation to be accurate. I want two minutes' promise for him.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0098par0192	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0099par0193	Mr. President, my dear friends; yes, our Minister is telling the truth; we asked questions, and our Minister should have answered them, but instead of answering the questions we asked, he felt the need to answer questions we didn't ask and explain things we didn't. First of all, we have asked that our friends who were discharged from the army be granted the right to return to the army, even though they have the right to take a stand on retirement. So we're doing a study two or three times. We're still doing the work. It's called the study. That means if the study is done, the problem can be solved. You're making a law for a president of the MIT in one day, and we wanted to explain how even those who can't appeal to the court after a coup like the coup of September 12th were tried in those courts, and that's the contradiction. Tell those of us and our friends who are looking for the rights to say, "Yes, there's a study going on here. We'll settle the inequality between you. Tell me that. Second, we asked you a question about suicides. You didn't answer about that either. You didn't answer everything we asked. Our friends are asking a question, and instead of telling the reasons for this, instead of giving the right information about it, you're trying to answer the wrong thing you did. Yes, it is the duty of the House to ask the right questions and to give the right answers. We ask a question about opium, and 25 of our soldiers in Afyon have gone in plain sight. We still have no sound. We're waiting for answers. And this is about the questions we're asking... about the coup commission, about the research, I never said, "Why doesn't this government bring them to trial?" I said, "Why don't you make the arrangements to bring them to trial?" Just like in the MIT Law. So it's the government's job to destroy a provision that prevents criminals from being brought to trial. It is your duty to find arrangements to bring them to trial, to make arrangements, and to open the way for them to be brought to justice.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0100par0197	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers the 1st to 21st article. On the first chapter, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu will speak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0101par0205	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's National Movement Party Group on part one of the 394th Amendment. I salute your high council. Starting with my remarks, I'd like to say hello to the MPs of the Turkish nation by the Istanbul MP Engin Alan Sir, who we visited today in prison with our fellow MPs. I'd like to share with you some of the problems of those who serve within the Turkish Armed Forces, pensioners, families of martyrs and veterans. The additional indicators of our petty officers, the inability to evaluate their academic studies, the inability to consider their legal identities, the lack of a degree in being assigned to technical tasks, the lack of their pensions at the level they deserve are fundamental problems. It is more than a shame that the veterans, privates, contractors, and privates' monthly indicator tables are indexed to other ranks, that they cannot receive representation compensation, that they do not have titles in many arrangements made by health care agencies and TSK, that they are ignored and that they are not represented in OYAK, even though they are members. On the other hand, the vague, disorganized definitions of martyrs or veterans within the Turkish Armed Forces are causing problems. The solution to these problems is important for the individualisation of legislation and authority for members of the Turkish Armed Forces in this situation. Honourable lawmakers, AKP governments have first designed the judiciary, and then we remove military custody. We're going to clean up the so-called soldiers of the Turkish Armed Forces. The generals, described by the United States as "Abrasian", began to gather the superior heroes in the fight against terrorism, some of whom were called "Ergenekoncu" (some), and some others were called "balioscu" (some others who were not connected with them). The prime minister has signalled the judiciary before every politically troubled decision and action, and the button has been pressed and sensational operations against soldiers have been launched, and arrest waves have emerged. Mashallah, there were so many so-called coupgers, so-called leaders of the terrorist organization, and so-called agents of the so-called traitors, that the ball was not finished, the army was finished, the Turkish Armed Forces were exhausted, but the juntas were never eradicated. As for us, we kept complaining to the public about this weirdo situation. Sensitivity tried to express such injustices in newspapers, televisions. In fact, our president, Mr. State Gardener, tried to visit former Chief of Staff İlker Başbug, who was accused of being a terrorist, to get the public's attention and seize the issue. He said that the unjust destruction of the Turkish Armed Forces would harm the country, not just the army, but the country, and that the morale of the armed forces would put Turkey in a difficult position to compensate for. But the Prime Minister ignored this unlawfulness and dangerous development, and arrests, intimidation, and dishonoration continued indefinitely. And those who suck up to power, oh, we got rid of military custody, we finally got the civilian custody we've been missing for years. And by that, we can't find a commander to fight terror. The Prime Minister kept blowing these Ergenekon waves as a joke. Actually, he's not comfortable with the military being without a command committee. Though he embraced the Imralı, he needed heroes to fight in the southeast in order to persuade the Imran to negotiate. The Prime Minister stated on TV that all these injustices and atrocities were a cleverly prepared joke. The interesting thing is, he was waiting for our president to go to Silivri to end his joke. Now the Prime Minister laughs and laughs at all of us, and says, "I fooled the nation, this is Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer or something like that." I wish it were that simple and we could laugh like the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has sacrificed the undivisable integrity of the Turkish Armed Forces and the state's country to his own political game. Families destroyed, furnaces extinguished, reputations slaughtered. For forty years, we have been branded as heroes, and the baby killer, who has been the devil for forty years, has been carried away by angel wings. The Prime Minister did not refuse to waste the army and its honored members to make his power absolute and indifferent. Today, the Prime Minister manages a country whose army is worn out, depressed, and concerned about its future. With zero problem policy, a country that has lost all its friends and turned them into fierce enemies has to understand and learn that a strong army needs more than ever. Honourable MPs, this blessed land we live in is a geography that makes the existence of powerful states and nations mandatory. Asia Minor has never endured weakness and weakness, and has ruled them out in an endless manner, giving only strong nations and states the right to live. Those who lost their strength and power soon disappeared into the dusty pages of history. Those who make the states strong are the qualified political will and powerful armies that come out of the hearts of the nation. His political will has been mortgaged, surrendered to the global accounts of those who have historical ambitions in this geography, and it has been difficult for the public to continue to rule as one and whole on this land, where a government is governed by governments that fuel tension, polarization and dissolution, and his army is constantly battered, undermined, weakened and neutralized by their own governments. The Turkish Armed Forces are our army, this army that made this land a home to the Turkish nation a thousand years ago and has protected and protected this country for a thousand years. It is this army that carries God's religious Islam from Adriatic to the Wall of China, from the deserts of Africa to the steppes of Asia. It is our army that rules the three continents of the word, with swords and witnesses under the banner of the prophet. The conqueror of East Rome, the army that carved the Turkish Islamic seal into the heart of Byzantines, is the army, which is our army, that is the compassion and praise of the Prophetullah. The sacred duty of our holy nation to this army yesterday was to establish the peace and security of our nation under political will and within the legal framework, to protect our nation's international interests against its enemies, to protect the territorial integrity of our last country, Turkey, to prevent it from being divided, to crumble, to crumble. In contrast, it is the duty of political power to maintain its own army, to protect its reputation, and to provide the political and psychological support necessary to ensure that this institution, whose vital importance for our national existence is complete, complete, and worthy. This is not possible by current staff and structures. The only port the prime minister can trust and can take refuge in is the Turkish Armed Forces. He can feel safe in the safe environment the military can provide, but the picture we face today is a situation we cannot approve of on behalf of modern, democratic and powerful Turkey. It is unacceptable for the government of Turkey to deal with its own army. The Roman thinker Tacitus says that nations who cannot tolerate their own armies have to endure the armies of other nations. On the other hand, the party's custody was established, while the military's non-democratic formations were said to have been purged and military custody was terminated. The garrison, founded on September 12th, was built by AKP's partisan state from the wreckage of the state. The TSK is now in the clear. The Prime Minister orders it, the General Staff makes it....................................................................................... The Turkish Armed Forces have even abandoned their constitutional mandate to the government. The army has the constitution's powers and responsibilities for national security of Turkey, but so far they have not made a single statement about the opening of the PKK, sitting at the negotiating table with the Imralı criminal, the missile shield, the threat to Iran or Syria and inform the public. It's as if we entrusted our children to the National Lottery Administration instead of them, as if 8,000 of our martyrs had died in construction of the Turkish Armed Forces, not under the command of the Turkish Armed Forces. The military's top command committee is in a state of carelessness, watching the negotiations with the terrorist from the bleachers. Woe to these people, and to the children of this nation. The lives we've been terrorizing for 40 years may seem like a joke to the Prime Minister, but for us, it's not a joke, it's painful, it's painful, it's honor, it's honor, and it's true. I wish them God's mercy and patience in the process of negotiating with this terrorist that they had to live with, their families and our veterans, while we reminisce of the memory of our beloved martyrs. With these feelings, made-up cases, accusations and accusations, I salute the members of the Turkish Armed Forces who were persecuted in prison and courtrooms, as I send my love and greetings to all of them, especially our Istanbul MP, Engin Alan Bey.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0102par0225	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar... Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0103par0229	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act. Many of the disciplinary sentences intended to be brought in through the bill are vague statements. They need to be filled with clarity within the general logic of the law. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to start by asking you again in the budget where we've asked a few times, where we haven't been able to get an answer, and then asking you again the question that we haven't been able to get an answer to. Mr. Secretary, don't we have a newer offensive boat than 2002? Is there an attack-bot tender that's been under way since 2002? If so, which firms were involved in the tender? What firm did the tender stay at? Is the company official connected to the government by kinship? I'll ask you again, Mr. Secretary. One question is about gun sales. During Hillary Clinton's interrogation of the Senate Commission, she was asked to send weapons to Libya via Turkey. Hillary Clinton said to ask him in the next room. Next door, I think it's either the Department of Defense or the CIA. I ask you again, and I ask you, Mr. Secretary, is it true that you provided weapons to al-Qaeda through Libya and the Free Syrian Army? What do you think of these allegations? Please, I'd like you to answer this clearly.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0104par0234	We call it bullshit.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0103par0235	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the Prime Minister has been charged with... Mr. Secretary, you answer with nonsense, but they ask Hillary Clinton in America. Dear lawmakers, with the statement that Mr. Prime Minister had announced that there were no officers left to send to fight terrorism, I am celebrating Ergenekon Τ's transfer from the prosecutor's office to the attorney general's office, but I say the one who took the horse has already passed Skekdar. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Prime Minister's statements are seen as an effort to change the agenda, which is being broadcast in the press.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0105par0239	Changing the agenda helps the CHP.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0103par0240	But the Prime Minister is very serious about this, because last week, it was announced that police officers who had completed 15 years in the ministry, sent by the Ministry of Interior to the province of 81, would be sent back to areas where the terrorist incidents were intense. It has been announced that employees who know the area will be employed with savings and experience. Although it's doubtful how long that decision would be valid. Because the Prime Minister cannot stand by what he says, he often changes his decisions. There is no explanation for a person who says, "What is NATO doing in Libya?" In less than a month's time, he has made a province of his country the center of Libyan intervention. On November 7, 2012, as soon as he makes it up, we don't have such a demand, we don't have to pay for a Patriot. On November 21, 2012, a request from a Prime Minister who says, "We're not going to get a Patriot." Two weeks from now, all of this will be done, we'll take a step accordingly. Because there is no explanation for how to transfer to a Prime Minister who says, "The region under threat is the territory of Turkey as well as the territory of NATO." Dear lawmakers have come to our country with soldiers of missiles, which have been claimed to be NATO, but are originally owned by the Netherlands, Germany and the United States. According to the government, our country is threatened, and they're in our country for it, but they're not NATO, and we'll pay for it, and it's not clear how long they'll stay. Because according to the Prime Minister, they're on their own land. Dear lawmakers, the Prime Minister's statements, the generality of the Interior Ministry, the ongoing investigations, allegations, arrests, and, as we think about the resignations of our navy in recent years, come to a conclusion: The AKP government should not be surprised if foreign commanders and foreign commanders demand it soon. That's what it looks like, my dear friends.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0106par0244	Hodja, you're talking crazy.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0103par0245	Dear MPs, II. The price of Abdulhamit (Abdülhamit) keeping the Ottoman fleet locked in Halic (Galic) for thirty-three years in constant fear of a coup was paid for the loss of the Battle of Tripoli, when the Ertugrul frigate first gave 533 martyrs and then sank on the coast of Japan. It's important to read history, but what's important is to be able to evaluate it with its events and its consequences, to get the analysis right, and to read things correctly. If you can't read, history is a repeat. You can't understand what the word means, you continue to build your policies on historical mistakes, and you are mistaken for seeing your own lands as the land of foreign lands. The investigation, launched in 2009 on charges of assassination of Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc, reached the army's cosmic chamber. Twenty-six days of searching. And? On the last days of 2012, the Deputy Prime Minister made a statement: I don't think it was an assassination attempt. What happened for three years? As a result of the cosmic room search, the plan for where to hide was rendered unusable by soldiers, in what ways, at the top of the state in a possible battle situation. The places where the Republic of Turkey will use it in a possible war situation and hidden arsenals in certain parts of the country have been compromised. Documents on PKK construction in northern Iraq have been deciphered, and sources of information have been obtained. So after a claim of assassination that was not our country, the prime minister's office, under the supervision of the Deputy Prime Minister, led to the lack of officers to send to fight terrorism. In 2011, 872, 2012, 1,227 of our officers, who were active in the fight against terrorism, either resigned voluntarily or retired. Since the prime minister couldn't find an officer, he sent the Chief of Staff to conduct operations against the PKK personally. Dear lawmakers, for a major mentioned in a military espionage operation, there has been a separate trial for animal and child pornography claimed to have been seized in search of his home. The court has decided that during the thousands of CDs and DVD reviews, the DVD could have been involved, as the defendant advocated, and that the DVD could have been acquitted by those or institutions who wanted to accuse the defendant of a humiliating crime by the person or institutions, by the idea that this DVD could have been placed among other confiscated items. Now I'd like to tell you about a hero soldier of ours. His name is Mustafa Levent Göktaş; born 1959 Tokat, Turkish soldier, retired officer. During his work at the TSK, PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan took part in the removal of Ocalan, and was captured in Kenya, and brought to Turkey.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0107par0249	America gave it to you, America!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0103par0250	He served in the Co-operation Search and Rescue Unit under the Special Forces Command of the General Staff. The only Turkish officer in the Turkish Armed Forces with three superior medals of bravery and abdication. After retiring from military service in 2004, he became a freelance lawyer. On January 7, 2009, Ergenekon was detained in the 10th wave operation of the investigation, and a few days later he was arrested on charges of being a member of an armed terrorist organization. He denied all charges. I'll leave the decision and assessment to the public's discretion. We have entered the final round of attacks on the Turkish Armed Forces over the years. The only one responsible is the ten-year AKP governments, and history continues to write them down. I thank you for listening and give you my love and respect.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0108par0254	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora... Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0109par0258	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding the Disciplinary Code of the Turkish Armed Forces 394 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I would like to say that we consider it a positive change in the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law bill to be a public-known room and probation, which means the suspension of the sentence. But I think it's very important to talk about two basic issues that come to mind when you say military service in Turkey: one is a conscientious rejection, and the other is military suicides. Conscientious rejection is a state of rejection of mandatory military service based on religious, moral, or political grounds. The biggest development of conscientious rejection has occurred in Germany. After the Nazi experience, the right to conscientious rejection has been passed in 1949, and the law in 1959 has been passed, and anyone who opposes armed turmoil between states will be in alternative civil services, and if anyone wants to, they will be able to work in an unarmed service. In particular, a large increase in the number of conscientious objectors in anti-war efforts developed against the Vietnam War has forced the country's military laws to change. In the developing process today, conscientious rejection is in all countries and 47 member states of the European Union and in all countries except Turkey and Azerbaijan. In most South American countries, The right to conscientious rejection after World War II has been granted and the removal of mandatory military service has been made. International units, such as the United Nations, the European Security and Co-operation Organization, the Council of Europe and the European Union, have adopted a conscientious rejection of mandatory military service and have repeatedly warned its members to make legal arrangements and to be careful in practice. The International Amnesty defines the conscientious objector as: "He refused to serve in the armed forces because of his or her commitment or because he refused to participate directly or indirectly in wars or armed conflicts, even if he did not refuse to participate in all wars, he refused to participate in a war's purposes or the way it was carried out. The Amnesty International also considers those who have failed to record or refuse to record their conscientious rejection and who have failed to perform civilian alternative services or refuse to do so as a prisoner of thought. Although he took reasonable steps that would allow him to be exempt from military service for reasons of conscience, he also considers those who were imprisoned as prisoners of thought for leaving the armed forces without permission. Conscientious rejection has been a very new phenomenon since 1999, when he was first seen in Turkey. The appearance of this maturity in Turkey was essentially possible because of the pressure of international and national public opinion on the arrest of some conscientious objectors and the arrest process. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are sentenced to six months to two years in prison for encouraging or preaching the 318th Article of the Turkish Penal Code, which stipulates the punishment of conscientious objectors in Turkey. He says, and his conscientious objectors receive this coverage. When conscientious objectors are arrested in any way, they are forced to live in military prisons under military orders and discipline, so they face a lot of oppression and torture and trial in military courts. Among other things, they face an accusation such as alienating the people from military service because they have declared their conscientious objection, unlike deserters. This charge has been carried out in the past, despite some changes in Article 155 of the Military Penal Code with the new Article 318. In addition, activists who have acted not only as conscientious objectors but as supporters of conscientious objectors, those who have handled a conscientious rejection or similar issue, or those who write or make a military criticism, take their share of their share in the courts. But it has to be known that conscientious rejection is more legal with the way it's handled in international literature and is defined as a human right to freedom of religion and conscience. In Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, considered as a legal right, the conscientious objection is judged under Article 18 of the United Nations Civil and Political Rights Convention, and under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and under Article 9 of the 9th article of the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that Turkey violates its 6th Articles on the banning of the abuse of the European Convention on Human Rights (European Rights), 9th and just trial on freedom of expression, which explains its denial of conscience and thus punishes its application by a citizen named Halil Savda. The ruling of the European Court of Human Rights ruled that recognition of the right to conscientious objection is not a necessary measure in democratic societies. Conscientious rejection is an anti-war stance, and the individual refuses to serve on moral, political, or religious grounds. It shows that being anti-war is not an element of him, that his warless utopia can also become a reality, that peace is something that cannot be changed, that cannot be left behind after great victories, and that it is the path that is especially the way to go. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, among the men involved in the Turkish Armed Forces, the suicide cases have increased day-to-day, and have reached alarming levels. National Defence Minister Mr. Ismet Yilmaz has said that the age range of the soldiers who committed suicide within the TSK is 20-24, which is consistent with the data of the Turkish Statistical Agency. Turkey's Statistical Agency has found that the age of suicide occurs mainly at this age, which has been identified as an educational level, regional differences and the distribution of the province. The suicide conditions and reasons of non-military soldiers and non-military members of the TK are incompatible. The Minister's approach, which includes the opinion, is, in the least, irresponsible. The important thing to remember is that young people are responsible for the state after they start military service. The abuses of young men, especially those who have not graduated from college and who have served as soldiers, during their military experience, are a subject known to everyone but not spoken aloud, so it shows no signs of improvement. Minister of National Defence Mr. Yilmaz said in May that the party's deputy's motion for suspicious military deaths in the barracks had taken place during mandatory military suicide in the barracks over the past 22 years. The number of soldiers who have committed suicide in barracks in the past decade is 934, and the number of soldiers who have lost their lives in the conflict is 818. These numbers are quite high compared to the European average. In Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the entity has been charged with positive obligations to states, to take all measures to protect a third person from their deadly actions or to protect them from their actions under certain special circumstances. This obligation is no doubt valid for mandatory military service, and states must implement an effective legal and administrative system while carrying out their vital duties. Suicide prevention centers in the United States, such as the Centre for Crisis in Ankara, are not part of the Turkish Armed Forces, but they are trying to help these events within the Union-led medical-patient chain of the Turkish Armed Forces. This is insufficient to prevent suicides. Mr. President, even though the General Staff has said that soldiers commit suicide on grounds such as abuse, drug use, family problems, over-indulgence, or embezzlement, and indecencies, it should not be forgotten that the entity states have not removed the responsibility of the soldiers on the right of life. The European Court of Human Rights, which monitors whether or not the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights have been carried out effectively, should examine whether Turkey has met its obligations in the face of sentencing decisions, the mandatory military service, particularly the recognition of its right to conscientious rejection, must be removed, by implementing transparency and control mechanisms, and in accordance with measures set by the ECHM, should be met with all kinds of human rights violations that have occurred during suspected soldier deaths and mandatory military service, I thank you to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0110par0277	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri... no. On behalf of his personal name, Mr. Sena Kaleli. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0111par0282	Thank you. Mr. President, I've made a promise to the esteemed MPs regarding the 394 rows of Bill of Law. I'd like to begin by asking God's mercy, patience, and condolences on the families of eight of our workers in Gaziantep, who were killed at work. While civil and political violence is going on in a rapid, systematic fashion, it's very important that businesses cannot be disciplined, that they can't be taken precautions. Mr. President, from the early years of the republic, high-school, high-school, university-level schools have been opened to raise our officers and petty officers, and, depending on the process, the level of training of officers and petty officers serving in the Turkish Armed Forces has been increased steadily. Unfortunately, however, the increase in this level of learning has not been reflected in the autonomy and social rights of officers and petty officers. On the other hand, the absence of the rights of petty officers in the same risk group as retired non-profits and non-expert undergraduate officers is both discrimination and inequality. To unite us alone, we have neither race nor sect nor material nor spiritual values. Our human and conscientious values, our compassion, our morality, our faith in a double-standard democracy, our equal rights and freedoms, our will to live in common, our understanding of creation that doesn't ignore or reject, our understanding of our feelings, and our good intentions. True liberal understanding requires a place where the rights are handed down, and no one is anxious to compare them to himself, and they are not arrogant, nor are they underprivileged, nor are they anxious. Without this reality and ground, there will still be mutual bans, pressures, impositions, monotheistic understanding. Heat and ambitious, a sense of revenge, a lack of criticism, feeds on social dissolution. As rights and freedoms are delivered, we multiply, we are even, and we can live together. For this, the search and understanding must be based on reason and science, with the free logic and grounds for understanding of the ideal morality at a higher level. If we talk about our ideology, our understanding, on the ground of rights and freedom, we're neither compromisers nor copycats. We'll always defend, improve, fight, and not give up our equalityist and libertarian understanding without hindering, unobstructed concepts. In this sense, the question I have made regarding the matter is stated in the written response given by the National Defence Minister Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, that there have been some changes in the rights of petty officers and some in the process of working. However, petty officers have stated that in the past years, there have been constant commitments, but so far no steps have been taken. As a matter of fact, Mr. Mehmet Simsek, who I asked about the State Minister's statement during the budget talks, stated that he had no preparation for this issue. So either the ministers are unaware of each other or there's a lack of coordination. Petty Officers who consider themselves the other group of the army continue to wait. We must surely manage to boost the professional motivation of petty officers in the risk group, such as officers of the Turkish Armed Forces, to improve their sense of belonging, to compensate for the inequality of their rights, and to ensure the unity of practice. They can't be talked about in egalitarian, inhumane environments, discipline and humane and conscientious approaches. I hereby pay tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0112par0289	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0113par0293	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act. On this occasion, I salute you all. There's an expression in Asia Minor: when the herd is gone, you can't account for the alca calf when the attack on the Turkish Armed Forces, the reputation execution and the arrests continue to go on, while dealing with the disciplinary law at a time when all these officers are in prison, it's kind of an artistic approach, it's kind of a bit of a funky approach. The view of the Turkish Armed Forces is as follows: Former Chief of Staff İlker Başbug is a member of the terrorist organization and is also under arrest for building a terrorist organization. Again, the words of the former chief of staff, Light Kozaner, in the most private places, were published and published in the media. One of the six generals is in prison as a prisoner. The Turkish Armed Forces are facing a phenomenon of the friendship of gun friendship, which has been reported and accused. The Turkish Armed Forces have arrived at an armed headquarters, where documents have been carried out of headquarters with suitcases, where they have been worn out by reports and accusations. I want to ask everyone with a conscience, out loud, how a Turkish Armed Forces who can't protect their own law will protect the country. Is it a necessity that the Turkish Armed Forces are trying to import Patriots from the United States of America, NATO, and other countries against a country like Syria, whose wings are broken and conflicted? And when it's clear what the Dutch soldiers from there did in Srebrenica, we're doing it. We're dealing with armed forces who've broken their national resistance, open to any operation of intelligence and evil. There is also an example in Ottoman history of armed forces bound, morale and motivation destroyed and distributed. In 1826, we removed and distributed the decayed receptacle. This stove actually meant disbanding the ground forces. In 1827, the French and Russian navy destroyed our navy in Navarin. In 1828, Turkey faced the attack of Russia, and an English zabiti named James Brown described and described the war as a war with an empire of the army-free Ottoman nation, and Sultan Mahmud was eventually defeated and fell to pieces in front of his own governor, surrounded by a snake that fell into the sea. Dear lawmakers, despite all the fancy rhetoric and exaggerations of power, the Turkish Armed Forces have no human motivation. Officers are undecided as to how they will behave today in the fight against terrorists or in the face of the enemy. In today's Turkey, PKK's number-two name, blood-soaked, fascist, murderer Shemdin Sakık If the government officials who are not upset about the conditions of the heroic officers held in Silivri are crying for the people who died in the mountain; if I were to be done to them by means of bloody terrorists, I would go to the mountain myself. If so, it is not difficult to predict the situation of the armed forces who are fighting the bloody terrorists. Finally, the Prime Minister spoke, saying: "There is almost no one left in command. This will not happen. You are making the Chief of Staff a member of a terrorist organization; it will upset the morale," he said. So since none of Prime Minister Erdogan's talks are consistent with the previous one, we don't have any doubt about that either.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0114par0301	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0113par0302	Prime Minister Erdogan is in the position of a man who beats and cries. It's as if the special authorities have established another government, not the AKP government. It was as if Greece's media, not AKP media, had executed reputations for the TSK. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's as if I'm the prosecutor of this case, not Prime Minister Erdogan, but someone else. It was as if I had told the judge what was necessary for him to do so. His word belongs not to Prime Minister Erdoğan, but to a Japanese person.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0115par0305	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0113par0306	If the prime minister had been sincere in his remarks, he would have passed a law similar to that of the Undersecretary of the MIT, removing the issue in one day, and thus the complaint would have disappeared on its own.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0116par0307	You're an intruder now, occupying the bench.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0113par0308	Turkey's handing over its air defence system to foreigners and also the 12 miles that will occur at sea tomorrow, or which navy you will use in the natural gas and oil exploration activities referred to by Greece. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0117par0311	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Moving on to QA. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0118par0314	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, they've been asked from time to time, but since it hasn't been cleared up, I felt the need to ask again. This expert is the gendarme, the chief of staff. It takes both physical and mental power to be an expert officer, to be an expert officer, but after a very tight trial, they don't feel happy after they've been taken. There is a new law, and they'll make us staff according to the 657. They'll leave. It's all going around. They say their children are in tune, they're in a bad mood. If they are legally entitled to such rights, are they taken according to their political preferences, or is there no such law, are they allowed to wander? I'd appreciate it if you'd give me an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0119par0317	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0120par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in response to our earlier questions, you said that the PKK and the AKP had not been in negotiations, and that this was done by the state. In these state institutions, so far, outside the Undersecretary of MIT, who is the man of the state? Is it just MIT? If that's the case, then who's running this? Where is the government that runs this state, then, not in this business? Is there an Undersecretary of MIT who doesn't count the government? What do we give in exchange for these negotiations? I ask you to explain this once again to the beloved Turkish nation, especially as a minister. Secondly, how high is your ministry's work on the improvement of civil servants in the Turkish Armed Forces in both the nature and social rights and the working conditions? Is there such a study? If so, what is its content, and where is it? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer me. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0121par0323	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0122par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in order for the answer to the question I just asked to be convincing, further explanations are needed. News on the subject has not been released by ordinary media organs. The source of the report is Reuters and Agence France-Presse. On 26 January 2013, the news of the local time at 12:47 pm was exactly as follows: "For you, Yemeni authorities have captured the assault rifles that were carried by ship in the southern port of Eden. On Friday, the media reported that it was the 2nd time in the same month. The Saba News Agency reported that the weapons detected in a container included 115 T-14 Turkish assault rifles based on the information of Customs Chief Mohammed Zumam. Mr. Zumam says that 3.780 automatic rifles were found in the container. These pencils, labeled as plastic household goods, arrived at the port on November 16th last year from Turkey. Mr. Zumam did not give the name of the sender and buyer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0123par0328	Thank you, Mr. Irbet. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0124par0330	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the Constitutional Amendment on September 12, 2010 is carried out by the law of the Supreme Court members with the registration and autonomy procedures and judicial independence. The law of compliance mentioned has not yet passed through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. How fair is it that a court conducted under the General Staff of Staff, without full judicial guarantees and judicial independence, is shown by the Turkish Armed Forces as a way of justice for those who have been cut off from the path of justice through an open administrative procedure? Since the Supreme Court of Military Government was a fair trial, why was it given to those who were cut off from these decisions instead of applying to the court that they were granted a temporary right to freedom with Article 32? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0125par0333	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0126par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've just given examples from the Commission's Research Report on Impacts. In this commission report, then, you also read that other than Turkish Armed Forces, AGE decisions have been carried out by the minister's approval or decrees, and that they are no different than the AGE decisions, and that they are a victim of the same kind. Is it not a contradiction that you keep the victims of the decree separate and do not take a concrete step in the matter when you are restituting for those who are separated from the age decisions? Is it in your sense of justice? Will you make arrangements for the victims of the decree? Besides, about this arms smuggling, will your government reveal these smugglers, will you go for it? Do you have any opinions about that? In particular, these media reports upset us and the Turkish people. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0127par0339	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0128par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, we need to correct your statement on who was meeting with the baby killer in this Imran. Now, the AKP doesn't speak. You said. We're meeting with the AKP. We didn't say, the government is talking; the head of government says he sent his special representative. If you call it the state's meeting, the state's officials are meeting. If the Undersecretary of MIT has spoken, a judge or a national educational director will have to go on its own in matters such as education and defence in the native language. However, we know that the government is the organ behind the political decision of this business, that government officials are in and out of the picture. I am the authority in Strasbourg, and I am the men sent there, so we sent them. Therefore, I suggest you correct your statement, sir. On the other hand, there are problems with these expert gendarmes. Even though they study in schools, such as officers and petty officers, their time at school does not count as retirement. There are serious problems with additional indicators; they're paid in indexes to the petty officer's additional indicators. Do you think these should be fixed? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0129par0346	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0130par0348	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, has there been a national Security Council decision or assessment of the talks made with the baby killer in Imralı? There are also reports that Israel has violated Lebanon's airspace and has eliminated a target on the Syrian side. May I have your assessment on this matter? Did your government reveal to Syria a reaction to the attitude of Israel? I also asked you a question about the responsibility of foreign citizens in exchange for foreign currency, are you planning to reduce it? I also asked if you had any work with the guards? You didn't make an assessment of them. If it's possible, I'd like you to consider it.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0131par0352	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0354	Mr. President, Congressmans, first of all, Mr. Yeniçeri, members of the Military Supreme Administration Court have no record. Therefore, there is no need to question him because he has no record, that he has been given a record, and that he is not a free man? If you carefully follow the final decisions of the Constitutional Court -- I personally am following both the head of the institution and its parts of us -- as opposed to the Constitutional Court of Military Criminal Court lately -- sending many laws to our Supreme Court or Military Supreme Court. For example, the Constitutional Amendment has already been made, while civil servants have all been considered military personnel in the Internal Service Law and many other laws, but this is against the Constitutional Court of our military courts again. The Constitutional Court has ruled that civil courts must be tried in civil courts. Therefore, we need to trust the judges here in order to prosecute. These are part of our armed forces nation. The Supreme Court of Military Government and the Military Supreme Court are the liberal, democratic, working for the further development of the system -- who have done the judicial aspects of our Armed Forces, as well as I believe, as well. I have no complaints about that. The question of Mr. Light is, are there any studies on the rights of civil servants? As with all state officials, the efforts to improve the rights of civil servants subject to Law 657 continue within the scope of the budget. For many places, we say it for the petty officers and for the officers, but when we say that with regard to the budget, you immediately say that at the next meeting or session, what happened? There's a demand coming. However, in terms of budget opportunities, as long as our budget is good, there are many possibilities that have not been given in the past, and then there is work. Once again, you said that, but you didn't give me the IRS, so... when we give someone a right, they need to keep his status with the petty officer. When we give it to the petty officer, his status should remain intact with the officers. So there's a delicate balance; we hold this delicate balance, and first within ourselves, our forces commanders, the Chief of Staff, the Ministry of National Defence form a framework, and then we present it to our ministers after they reach a point between their institutions. Again, Mr. Halaman had a question about the transition of specialists to public institutions. As you know, under Article 92, Article 657 of the Law states that it can be appointed as a civil servant according to the specifics of its class. For a time, those who had actually served two years and left were employed in the state, mostly as security. But for the past two years, this job has no longer been employed, because the number has reached a great deal. We have a new study now, it'll probably come very soon. We're not thinking of providing this opportunity for those working for two years, but for those working for seven or eight years, so at least the Armed Forces can benefit from it. I'd also like to give you the number of these: the number of expert gendarmes is 24,418, and the number of experts is 46,394. Currently, it is said that the number of people who are waiting to leave and enter the public establishment is nearing 5,000. Again to Mr. Turkoglu: Specialists should be upgraded to first degree and the bill for access to 2,200 additional indicators has been passed during the last legislature, before New Year's, again in our era. Again, in talks on the MIT... look, the MIT has extraordinary duties beyond what everyone knows and is an organ of the state. Surely it's at the government's disposal, no doubt, but it's the MIT guys who are interviewing, but it's the MIT's primary duty. If MIT's not gonna do that, then he's gonna ask, so...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0133par0360	It happened within your knowledge, didn't it?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0361	Therefore, there is no limit to the service of the MIT. He does the government's work in favor of the nation...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0134par0362	He's doing it to himself?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0363	After that, he'll present it to the authorities, and the authorities will consider it. He's not in the decision-making office, he's in the government. Mr. Vural has a question, "Is such a decision taken in the MGK?" MGK decisions are confidential. So it's not worth it, it's not worth it, it's not worth it. It's confidential, and I think it's important that the secrecy not be disclosed.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0135par0365	So this is something that's been taken? Otherwise, you don't exist.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0366	No, no, I'm not saying anything about what was taken or what wasn't taken.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0135par0367	Don't turn the National Security Board into a baby killer or it won't exist.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0368	No, I don't. We don't say that, you don't... Two, there's another...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0135par0370	Your testimony is very wrong, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0371	Sir, look, we call MGK decisions confidential. So we're saying that we don't have to explain anything to you about this. Then you can do whatever you want.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0136par0372	Does the government have any other institutions? Is the state just MIT?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0373	Mr. Irbeç, we do realize that such multi-purpose weapons have gone from Yemen to Turkey and that they have been seized in customs, but as they come out of here, they're also used for farm purposes, which can be used as blanks, but when they come out of customs, they come out as food materials. So there's a smuggling here, and our Ministry of Customs and Trade is continuing to investigate this, but it's very clear that our State Department's officials are very confident with Yemeni officials... that Yemen is confident in Turkey. It's the undisputed acceptance of everyone we want nothing more than peace in Yemen, but it's been reported to customs as food when we come out of such smuggling or Turkey, and the container loads -- let's say export -- have been used for such a double purpose -- have continued investigations.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0137par0374	Can he send any weapons out of this country?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0138par0375	He can send them as food.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0376	It's called food. Now, as he said, you're exporting this much, 150 billion dollars, it's being loaded into containers. So, does the control of the containers depend on the tip, or does it check each one? And look at his apps around the world. As a former Undersecretary of Maritime, I say that all containers in the world are under 3% control. If you open every container, you won't be able to reach 150 billion exports, your trade will fail. And so they say, well, I think there might be a random control and a report-based control, but once the investigation is done, it's done what it needs to be done. Someone else... we've always said the same thing, but I mean, you have to trust the Turkish judiciary. Just a moment ago, your friend told me that this is how he decided to judge, and so, as he said, when he decided that the idea was right... look, the verdict was wrong, and here's a part of the conduct's actions are wrong. But another, let's just say that those who were cut off from the Armed Forces without the Supreme Court's rulings were subject to judicial control. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...this time it's not a judgment decision, so don't pay any attention to it. lt's one thing to accept one decision and not accept another.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0139par0380	Your time is up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0381	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0140par0382	Mr. Secretary, you forgot the rangers again. Are you passing them up specifically, foreign currency?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0383	That's true, but I've been passing on more information about them in writing. You have a few demands, as I said, not that we missed them, but that we'd be able to answer in writing, four-headed...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0140par0384	Is there just a study to fix the situation or not? I mean, I didn't ask for any specific information.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0132par0385	There's work to be done.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0141par0386	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit03spe0142par0387	We're not there yet, sir. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Now, I'm going to present the 1st article to your votes. I've been asked to make a decision and I'll call. All in favor... Those who don't agree... I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0142par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The number of decisions was not found in the vote of Article 1 of the 394 Bill of Law. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] It's agreed, there's enough to decide. We continue the talks of Bill 394. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's about to arrive after the 5th joke of the 4th article of the 1/394th law bill; (b) They are excluded from those who do not wish to carry out the requirements of the service of military service on the basis of conscience or religious belief. We provide and propose that the declaration be added. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Abdullah Levent corporate Secret Sakık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0143par0019	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0142par0020	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0144par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0142par0022	I'm reading the reason: The denial of Vicdani is that a person does not want to serve in religion, morally, and therefore refuses to serve in military service. This right was adopted by members of the Council of Europe, and Turkey is the only country that does not accept it. However, the military criminal courts also have decisions that recognize the right to refuse, and in this regard it is intended to prevent disciplinary action against a person who does not accept the services of a conscientious or armed person, which is excluded from the scope of the conscientious objector. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/394 is about to arrive after the third part of Article 6 of the Law Bill's Article 3/4; It is considered to be a matter of conscientious rejection. We offer and offer the addition of the declaration. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Abdullah Levent corporate Secret Sakık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0145par0037	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0142par0038	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0146par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0142par0040	I'm having him read his motive: The denial of Vicdani is that a person does not want to serve in religion, morally, and therefore refuses to serve in military service. Thus, it was intended to prevent the rights of conscientious objectors, using the widest form of appreciation for conscientious objectors. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke of Article 7 of the Disciplinary Code of Turkish Armed Forces 394 is changed as follows. Mustafa Moroglu Rahmi Türeli Ali Sarıbaş Mahmoud Tanal Aytun Çiray Kadir Gökmen Öğün Article 7- (1) The disciplinary supervisors, who have learned of the verb or the behavior of one of their members in any way that may constitute disciplinary action or occupational conduct, will conduct disciplinary investigations through the investigators he will have assigned in writing if they feel that the matter should be investigated. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0147par0055	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0142par0056	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0148par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0142par0058	Mr. Cherry, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0060	Mr. President, I've often been a bureaucrat before I came to Parliament as a member of parliament. There was a tradition I had seen here that I had learned, that even if the opposition was critical, ministers would be calm and calm. Here it's quite the opposite, the opposition is quite the gentleman, while the ministers are giving calm speeches, and they're doing an agitating here. Now, basically, in normal democratic countries after the Uludere and the Afyon incident, Mr. Minister shouldn't be here because in modern, democratic countries, ministers resign after such major incidents of loss of life. Dear friends, now that you're in fashion, you're suffering from constant impact. When the May 27 coup took place -- the only blows were against the whole nation -- you were not read. When it comes to the coup d'état of September 12th, you're basically his product, the product of the coup d'état of September 12th. If you were not the product, would you still not be able to judge or judge the Kenan Universe today? Now, Mr. Prime Minister testified on TV the other day that the arrests regarding the soldiers were normalization. So what's your bet so far? We arrest Turkish officers because we block coups, we normalize Turkey. This is actually your self-restraint. I suggest you take that into consideration in the following talks. Dear friends, as for the February 28th process, you've said a lot, I was a bureaucrat during February 28th, and I've been threatened by some journalists from time to time, but looking at the AKP Group, I don't see any heroes from February 28th. I don't remember any of you getting on top of the tank.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0150par0065	You're out?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0066	Now, look, dear friends, on the National Security Board of February 28th...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0150par0067	You were on top of the tank?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0068	... 18-point decision here, 18-point decision. Under this decision are the signatures of the late Prime Minister Erbakan, and those who entered the National Security Council at the time.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0150par0069	What did you do on February 28th, you were a bureaucrat?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0070	You know what he says in that decision? No employment should be allowed in the public institutions and institutions of the people who have been cut off from the TSK. Article 9 says that the extreme religious factions...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0150par0071	Tell me what you did when you were undersecretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0072	...people's institutions and institutions, especially university, educational institutions, bureaucracy and judiciary, must be prevented from infiltrating. (It is not only the government of this nation's Security Council decision, but the government has made it a general order. So the government did it.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0150par0073	Then who was in the government? Who was here?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0151par0074	You were the government's bureaucrat!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0075	In that Commission you collected and investigated the coup on February 28th, Karadayi came to you, and said to your face: "Erbakan has helped us very much with these decisions." Dear friends, I'd like to ask you one more question here that you haven't answered, that you haven't. Our esteemed congressman, Ali, asked this question in broad daylight, still no word from you. See, in 2004, your government wrote a directive to the Turkish Armed Forces and wrote to other bodies of the state as part of the additional Action Plan Against the AKP's Government (IRTICAI). Unless you explain this additional action plan, you're the coupger. Okay?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0152par0077	For God's sake! Is that a thing?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0078	As for another matter: Now that you're saying that September 12th, see what the Kenan universe says: "Abdullah Gül had become Prime Minister, and that's when he wanted to visit me, Mr. Erdogan. So I made an appointment with him, and we took him in through the back door to the army house of Kalander.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0152par0079	And which side are you on now, CHP?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0080	There he said that Mr. Erdogan gave me his respect, his love, my kindness to this country. Dear friends, you have nothing to do with coups. You're the provocateur of the September 12 coup.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0152par0083	So, where are you now?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0153par0084	Be the defender of the coupters, and after that, you're the enforcer.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0085	The day before September 12th, you provoked a provocation.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0154par0086	You're busy with coups.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0087	Your walk of brandy is the provocation of the September 12 coup. May God forgive you your sins. And now that you've shown up, the Undersecretary of MIT will see you, you won't know it; the general manager will see you, you won't know it. If you don't know about the Undersecretary of MIT, if you don't know what the general manager is doing, then you're not in power, you're not capable.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0155par0088	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0149par0089	I give you all my love and respect, my friends.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0156par0091	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I offer and offer the release of Article 8 of Law Bill 394, which is currently in session, from the article text of Article (2). Kemal Ekinci Haluk Ahmet Silver Rahmi Spectacular of Love Ali İhsan İkturk Aydın Ayan Ayadın Mustafa Moroğlu Mahmut Tanal Ahmet Toptaş Ali Sarıbaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0157par0106	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0156par0107	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0158par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0156par0109	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0159par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to our proposal. For a long time, we've been reviewing every prison review commission from the Republican People's Party, Veli Ağbaba, Nurettin Demir and myself in all the prisons in Turkey. We're also doing inspections in military prisons. Regarding the conditions in military prisons, a few years ago, when a large number of regular soldiers were arrested, I'd like to say by sources close to the ruling party that despite the perception that military prisons have been created as if they were a seven-star hotel, in all prisons, there are many more universal prisons in which human freedom of travel shouldn't be included, but in all prisons in our country as well. I can give you a positive opinion that individual errors, individual abuses are less, but in public, military personnel don't live in prison conditions, they live in luxury military houses. I'd like to point out that the perception created like this is also intended. Finally, the indictment, which has been expected for eight months, was finally revealed in Izmir, which is known as a military espionage case, that we've made an important effort to move public opinion into the agenda, and that I've tried to express from time to time in one minute from the council bench, and after that indictment, there is also an indictment that is being discredited by some media, some media who are being held here by a number of media organizations -- that I've already stated -- that their mothers, their fathers, their wives, their children can't look at people's faces. There have been brutal publications here for nine months, but at this point, the indictment says that there is an organization, that provides certain images of people, that it leaks information through blackmail, but it's still a box called "Pandora"; it's still open; if it's open, the expectations of these individuals have failed at the point of being charged with concrete evidence again, and at the point of using their rights in this regard. Maybe it's the first time in the Turkish judicial system that we're dealing with, there's a box in the indictment, the box's passwords are being opened. First, people are going to make their defenses on the general, and then, whoever decodes the box will come up with new allegations. But I've told you before, from there, naval base commanders, F16 fleet commanders, elite scientists of the GATA, hospital chiefs; those interested in promotions of petty officers, officers, all of those interested in their transfers are humiliated in the eyes of the public with incredibly ugly accusations. Despite all the efforts we've made in this situation, for example, Mr. Arinc, in the matter of the commander's resignation today, there are places where people are not standing behind anyone who needs their names in the indictment and proof. I'm going to speak freely about the resignation of the Navy Commander -- and I don't want to even want to express it -- Mr. Arinc came out of here, why the Navy Commander might have resigned, as if he was not guilty in his own conscience, so he didn't have to press charges, but he did get to the point where he could bring mud to the agenda of a very valuable member of his family. And then he acts like he's saying it with a conscience. But the problem of this separatist language, of this other language, of the language that puts it on this goal, of this demeaning language is already here.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0160par0118	Speak a word about the motion! Is that in the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0159par0119	It's something that we're witnessing on this stand that the depression is so bad that it doesn't separate the Turk-Kurdish, it doesn't separate the Alevi-Sunni. It says here, my friends. Here, this language itself is troubled because if an earthquake were a good thing, you'd expect it to make those distinctions. Mr. Arinc is also so conscientious that he's taking the two-line item he found in the 900-page indictment to the top of the country's agenda, which is why the commander may have resigned. The doubts at the point where this is only, and only a disgrace to the military, a government support, have been crowned by a grave doubt. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0161par0122	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th draft of the current 394 rows of law. In the 2nd article of the article, the duties given within this scope are considered an order for the service. I respectfully submit and propose that his statement be removed from the text of matter. Ali Sarıbaş Rahmi Türeli of Love Mustafa Moroglu Mahmut Tanal Ali Haydar Önal Veli Ağbaba Kadir Gökmen Öğit Ramadan Kerim Özkan Aydın Agha Ayayadın Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0162par0136	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0161par0137	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0163par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0161par0139	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0164par0140	Veli Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0161par0141	Mr. Agha... Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0165par0144	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've just asked Mr. Secretary a question, but the Minister hasn't answered much either. Of course, unfortunately, the issue we've been discussing since the beginning of the 24th term is the Globek matter. In the matter of the spherical, we can actually sum up AKP's policy in a word: it eats with the wolf and deals with the lamb, AKP. That's the sum of it. You know, this agreement, which was said to be the most strategic agreement that the United States of America had signed by respected diplomats and the American newspaper of the United States for the last 30 or 40 years, unfortunately, came to Turkey's agenda in the middle of the night before it was brought to parliament, by the United States Ambassador and the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, making an agreement behind closed doors, publicly announcing it to the public, under an agreement made by the United States Secretary of State. Look, Patriots are coming to Turkey, in the Dutch Parliament, in the German Parliament, whether or not Patriots should be sent to Turkey, whether or not they should be sent or not. But unfortunately, our country has so much military subcontractorship in sovereign countries that in the AKP period, there are no lawmakers in the Turkish Parliament who are unfortunately involved in the establishment of a base that determines the future period of Turkey, the security of Turkey, and our future. Not only the opposition party MPs, but the AKP lawmakers, even the ministers, are not aware of this. Sadly, these are the use of the sovereignty rights of Turkey to others. Look, dear friends, the AKP seems to be against Israel on the one hand, trying to account for nine of our citizens who were brutally murdered, while signing the treaty against Iran to protect Israel's missile shield. We -- Mr. Secretary of State -- have asked many times for permission to enter that base, to see what was done at that base, but we have no authority. He said, "We have no interest in the State Department." Last year, we asked permission to go to the Globedrum with 10 women's deputies, and the Ministry of National Defense couldn't answer. Recently, we applied to the Pentagon, and then we applied to NATO. The answer to the question we asked NATO came from Mr. Secretary, who said: "You cannot enter the base."
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0166par0150	The Minister can't get in, Minister!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0165par0151	The minister can't get in either. Now, we've asked questions, and this is what they call NATO base, which is a total lie. Dear friends, the missile shield found on NATO's website, the radar base, unfortunately, does not appear, which denies the government. This is a US base and Turkey is making it an instrument of war in the Middle East. So we asked a question, how many soldiers are there at what base they call the NATO base, and what soldiers are there? We asked the national Defence Minister, and he said there are 150 US soldiers. And every time we went there -- we saw a foreign flag hanging there with 10 female deputies -- we saw a foreign flag hanging over there -- that I was celebrating again, especially our group president -- we brought down the flag that we had caused to hang the Turkish flag, and the response said there were 150 US soldiers, Mr. Secretary of the United States, but every time we went there, the world knew that the world knew that there was a war against the Israeli people, and that this was a poor number of people who were put up for the peace, but that we had to take down a day, and that we had asked them down. See, as that shield was a symbol of imperialism established in the 1960s, so the shield that was built today in the Orbzik is a symbol of imperialism. If AKP lawmakers are sincere about Palestine, they must immediately support the removal of this shield without delay, or there is a contribution in the blood of the Palestinians from the AKP.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0167par0155	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0165par0156	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0168par0158	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act 394 be removed from the draft text of the declaration of disciplinary officers, which is included in the second joke of Article 11 of the Disciplinary Code. Mustafa Moroglu Rahmi Türeli Ali Sarıbaş Aydın Agha Ayyadın Ramazan Kerim Özkan Ömer Suha Aldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Article 11 of the bill 1/394 be removed from the text of the article. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Abdullah Levent corporate Secret Sakık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0169par0175	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0168par0176	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0170par0177	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0168par0178	Mr. Baluken, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0171par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the proposed bill. I salute your committee. There are issues that we, as a group, particularly in this bill of law that we would like to talk about -- our friend who is speaking -- who has expressed his right to conscientious rejection, and in relation to that, mandatory military action. We emphasise the need to regulate the number of soldiers reaching millions, the double judicial system brought by military courts, the existing arrangements still exist in politics and military relations, as the issues that must be discussed, as the BDP Group. On the other hand, again, the suspicious deaths of soldiers in barracks have become extremely alarming. We don't think the House has given up the necessary will for this, that it has not taken the necessary measures. In particular, there are certain issues of conscientious rejection that are necessary here. I would like to share the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on conscientious objection with the Parliamentary Assembly on January 26, 1967: "Those who are obliged to serve as soldiers have the right to be exempted from serving because of their strong opinions based on conscience or religious, ethical, moral, moral, philosophical, or similar grounds." I mean, in the country where there's still a ministry of the European Union, which sets a perspective on that direction, we're very much at fault with the fact that even the debates on conscientious rejection are considered taboo. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the European Convention on Human Rights is again defined as one of the most fundamental rights of the individual. In Germany, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia, in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, at the moment, the opportunity is given by the state at an alternative point of service to citizens who do not want to serve in military service, who have a right to conscience. Thus, there must be different processes in our country as well. Look, Mehmet Tarhan, who wanted to exercise his right to conscientious objection, applied to the European Court of Human Rights in 2006, and the court sentenced Turkey to pay 12,000 euros in compensation, so in a world where international contracts are binding now, even if we don't want to change, even if we want to avoid a debate within ourselves, we'll face it after a while. So we have to give it up. It can also be understood from the example of Osman Murat Country, where those who want to exercise their right to conscientious rejection are still in prisons in this country, where they are subjected to severe torture. I won't go into too many details, but we're hearing that there are a number of calls in Turkey that are still being sent to health care agencies about the right to conscientious rejection. There's no point in going around like this. I believe that we must freely discuss the right to conscientious objection in this House and recognize it as a right. On the other hand, suspected military deaths in the barracks: 934 soldiers were killed in this way, especially between 2002 and 2012. When we look here, we see that mostly Kurds and Alevi origins have been exposed to such suspicious military deaths through ethnicity and belief. One of the 42 soldiers alleged to have committed suicide in the 2012 statistics of the MaZLUMDER has a report stating that one was Armenian and 39 were Kurds. This is a very grave situation. We also have observations in the area. The last time I attended my own campaign was the burial ceremony of a soldier who had been delivered to his family in the direction of the Sandzak. In view of the family's insistence on the funeral, I'm a living witness that Sezer Altındağ, a soldier, died of a single gunshot wound to the forehead, not as a result of stepping on a mine in Ergani. So instead of avoiding such official information here, I invite you to face these processes and take the necessary precautions. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0172par0189	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act 394 be removed from the draft text of the declaration of disciplinary chiefs, which is included in the second statement of Article 11 of the Disciplinary Code. Mustafa Moroglu (Izmir) and his friends. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0173par0196	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0172par0197	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0174par0198	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0172par0199	Mr. Aldan, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0175par0201	Mr. President, I'd like to use my opinion on the issue in this article, since we have rejected the ruling party's approach to resolving the segregation clause we've given regarding those expelled from the Turkish Armed Forces. Since 1972, the AGE decisions have allowed those who have been transferred to resen retirement to regain their rights to self - control, to continue their own duties if they want to. Sadly, that right was limited only to AGE decisions. However, with administrative decisions, disciplinary board decisions, Minister's approval, or decrees, it has prevented those who have been forced to retire or have been discharged from military service to return to their duties and who have been forced to resign from duty and return to their duties at will. Now, all lawmakers need to see very clearly that this is an inequality. Let us ask: Is there more inequality or injustice in decisions made in the year, or are there decisions made by the minister's approval or decrees on a disciplinary committee? There's the president, there's the government, there's the commanders, there's all the files coming in front of them, and they all decide together, but in other cases, there's no such detail. We need to know that there are more officers and petty officers who have been suspended with the approval of the minister, with or without a disciplinary decision or executive decree. The question arises, whether or not, was it ideological when the law was passed, so is there a demon involved? Those who oppose the March 12th and the coup of September 12th are deprived of the opportunity to obtain the rights of equity in this scope. Unfortunately, we can't get the idea out of our heads to think that the critics are ideological about it. Because we all know that most of the people who were thrown out during this period are left-wing. It may also be that they have drawn weapons against their commanders, and have committed armed rebellion against the Constitution. But let's not forget that the content is controversial -- we're not at the right point or the wrong point, but -- it's important to keep in mind that those who were kicked out of the army for irretrievative reasons are also being forced to break the constitutional order. Every Democrat should be against the coupgers, Minister. But we're fighting the attackers. When you say, "I am a democrat," you have to say, "I am a democrat." On the other hand, we can't speak of the sincerity of an insensitive understanding of the universal legal values that are sensitive to impacts. My last word to my dear fellowman, Ali Kırca. And if this arrangement comes out that way, he's gonna have no rights. It is clear that he will be subjected to unjust discrimination due to this arrangement. Will Ali Kırca be able to report his injustice? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0176par0209	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0177par0211	It's enough to make a decision...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0176par0212	It's okay... Unacceptable. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 6 of Article 12 of the Law Bill 1/394 be removed from the text of the article. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Abdullah Levent corporate Secret Sakık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0178par0223	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0176par0224	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0179par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0176par0226	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0180par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. There are many examples of the information I just gave about Sezer Altındağ. On November 4, 2012, Ertuğrül Dokuyucu was forced to serve in Northern Cyprus, where he was bent over his chin with a G3 rifle and killed himself. But there was something strange about this suicide. Anyone who's interested in medicine knows what the entrance and exit holes should be like when they come out of this G3. Even though his son had a pencil-sized hole in his forehead, his mouth was torn to pieces, so it was evident that the bullet entered above his head. So the allegations of these suspicious military deaths aren't just allegations that are in the press or that we're talking about here. We need to point out that when you contact the families who have suffered these losses, you're in the middle of a very serious claim. These suspicious military deaths have the Minister's answers to the questions we've already submitted. With these answers, I have to point out that you're not going anywhere. He says, Mr. Secretary, there are no cases in our records that have ever been suspected of his death, not known, unregistered, unregistered, no investigations, no investigations. On the other hand, the suicide trend and behavior of the country across the country are also seen to be moving to an integral part of the state of the Republic of Turkey, given the age group, the level of education, the geographical region and the distribution of the province. I'd like to stress that the minister's sensitivity to this is that the entire Turkish community, the people of Turkey, is waiting. There are also statements made by the General Staff that soldiers commit suicide on grounds of abuse, drug use, family problems, excessive debt, embarrassing incidents and incompatibility. I'd like to point out that none of this has solved the problems that exist in the public conscience, in the public conscience. The other thing that we would like to point out in the amendments of the Turkish Armed Forces is the military-political relationship. Of course, the AKP government has said a number of different things in its process, especially in the Ergenekon trial process and in its process of advanced democracy in recent years, it has spoken of civilisation, but it has been intended that the military should not be withdrawn from politics, but that the army should be under the control of politics. How do we know that? Because the institutions of September 12th are in the same place. The National Security Council is standing in the same place. The National Security Strategy Document is still in the same place in the form of a secret constitutional document. If there really is going to be a confrontation of coups in this country, if the military-political relationship in this country is really going to be normal, I would like to stress here that it must be addressed by the National Security Council, the National Security Strategy Document and the 35th article that responds to coups in the Turkish Armed Forces' Civil Service Law. On the other hand, the world of closed housing for the army, especially in its internal business, is something that is worrying and necessary for us to consider, that even in the descriptions of the men under arms, there is still no regulation for this. There's only one judicial system in modern democracies about the judicial system. While there is a civilian judicial system on the one hand, we feel that a military judicial system, with the authorities in a hierarchical order, is not very healthy. If there is a democracy, we feel that this bilateral judicial system must be reviewed. We care about them in terms of Turkey's civilization, normalisation, and a real democracy. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0181par0238	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers Articles 22 through 44. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter, Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz will speak. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0182par0255	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we always say this geography has no conscience or acquish rights, no excuse. We live in a land where the passion for adventure isn't worth anything. You only make one mistake, and you pay a very heavy price to disappear. You don't give another chance, you stay awake, and you don't let go. The way all this goes is to keep a strong army on standby. For a strong army, physical capacity and mobility are not enough alone. The wealth of inner peace, morale and motivation is just as important. The AKP period will be remembered as the years in the future when the armed forces were planned to be battered and the unrest was attempted among its members. The years 2002-2012, when the age was burned along with the unconscionable dry, when the terrorists and Mehmet-duk were faced with the same fate, and the confusion, and the weariness of the mind. The military has been made a subject of politics, made to look like a democracy and an enemy of the nation, while the commanders fighting terrorism have been arrested and sent to prison on cruel charges. The junior and superior have been thrown into great chaos and chaos, all balances in the army have been turned upside down. From the top commanders to the lowest of the army, everyone is unhappy and confused because no country in the world has ever seen another incident beating up their own army as much as our government. Our beloved nation and the Turkish Armed Forces, which emerged from its bosom, are now awaiting the end of political accounts and abuses conducted on its own. Our country's point of view with the wrong foreign policy of the AKP is also mandatory. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our nation's pupil, members of our army at all levels have serious problems and expectations. High-ranking officers in command are concerned about tomorrow's charges of fabrication and prescribing and documents. Tomorrow, their minds are preoccupied with their concern, and because the state has been in negotiations with the terrorist organization they are serving, they are not able to see the government's support and political commitment, and they continue to guard the homeland with the sadness of being left unclaimed. In the army, resignations and suicides have increased. Senior officers view themselves as both social status and autonomous civil servants, who have been pushed, pushed, and neglected because of their rights. Since their commanders were left in the middle of the fight against terrorism, with the belief that the Turkish Armed Forces were not in a position to claim them, everyone has found the solution to be self-preservation or stability. Even for urgent orders given by the commanders, they've been waiting for a written order with the approval of almost two lawyers. Here's to our petty officers with their age-old woes awaiting a solution. Petty Officers are considered two years of higher education and officers are considered four years of college graduates. As soon as the officers graduate, they are denied the title of petty officer who should have received the title of engineer. They demand that this right be given to them. Since the commander and the higher ranking officers receive their duty compensation, they receive 85 per cent of their salary and 45 per cent of their pension. A 25-year-old petty officer receives the same salary as a new lieutenant, awaiting immediate correction of the salary differences against any petty officer responsible for all equipment working in the same environments. They demand that the additional indicators of 3,600 be raised above 4,000, fair use of military camps and military homes. The number of petty officers in the army is 96 thousand, and our officers are 30 thousand, but the opportunity to take advantage of social facilities is one-third against the petty officers. If that's the case, it's important to ask where the social status of these facilities is. The same discrimination is found in military hospitals, their clinics are separated. When you're sick with a comrade, you want to be together in your health. I don't think this separation is the right approach. Carabinieri, who are 45 per cent of the General Command of the Gendarmes, also have problems. In the most difficult conditions in the country, veteran gendarmes, such as petty officers, have been performing almost the same tasks, and even the twin, who gives them the third degree due to the lack of a petty officer, work without compensation and rights given to the petty officers. Mr. Prime Minister, who deserves to intervene in private life until we have three or five children -- even though he has no expertise -- continues to ignore expert and petty officer discrimination and unfair practices against experts. In the General Command of the Gendarme, an additional indicator of an expert police officer who served in the same position as petty officers in the armed forces of traffic, police officers is 3600. There's a difference between him and the staff on the same team of staff at close to $350. This difference also leads to victimization as a pension bonus and pay difference. The military school term of the more qualified gendarme still does not count as actual service, but is not being used enough for housing. The minimum wage in the army is for the veterans. Whatever their age, they're the ones who won't be relieved of their watch. You see, they're underpaid, but their responsibilities are huge. I really think that this distinction has nothing to do with the Turkish Armed Forces, except to create a lower level to be ordered, which leads to injustice. Isn't there a solution to this problem? I do. Just as the law-enforcement guard class, whose rights are troubled in the police force, have been dealt with by law enforcement class, with the courses and exams to be opened, gradually, the expert gendarmes should be taken into the class of petty officers, the two staff classes must be united. The remotivation of veteran gendarmes who have reached significant numbers will also contribute greatly to the peace within the military. You have to listen to what's going on with the sergeants and the privates. These brothers don't have pensions, so they don't have tomorrows. Twenty-five years of specialists and a one-year veteran have the same salary because they don't have additional indicators. When they've been sick for more than three months and receive reports, they're relieved of their duties, they're victimized. In their smallest mistakes, they are cut off from the army, and there is no compensation. They're not allowed in social facilities, they're treated like privates. Shall we count more? I'll ask you how you'll expect service from this carelessness and pushing. Is it so hard to fix these and provide human working conditions? There are also civil servants in the armed forces. No one has ever heard of your legitimate complaints or troubles. To whomever you deliver these troubles, there will be a struggle, an effort to resolve them. If he had a stone, he would have said so. The AKP didn't come. The National Movement Party, which has brought these problems to the stand three times, has found no response to their attempts. They are not soldiers, they are not officers of the Turkish Armed Forces, nor do they take advantage of civility. The military staff, when they're taking the altar, is a stranger in denial about taking advantage of their blessings. Put yourself in their shoes. They feel the same way that being left out makes you feel. And because they love their government, their army, they're always looking for a legitimate, elegant solution. They expect the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to come up with a solution. What are these problems? Mr. Secretary himself has promised me that I will assist his supporters in transition from this bench to other ministries. Nothing has changed, I'm afraid, but this problem of convenience has not been solved. I've just spoken to the Minister, and he's expressed his personal efforts, but you can appreciate that this needs to be resolved. In particular, I'm going to share their problems with you in the motion that I make regarding our civil servants. As I end my words, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0183par0275	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0184par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since you're here at this time of night, I salute you as I begin my words. First, Mr. Secretary, before I explain my views on this law, you said that the question I asked about U.S. soldiers on this Globecik (7/12193) at the radar base (7/1293) is that US troops are on the radar base, and that the agreement was signed between Turkey and the United States on September 14, 2010, and that the radar is dedicated to NATO. And you're just saying that this is a radar of NATO. You're saying that there was an agreement between Turkey and the U.S., which came to me with your signature. So about eight months later, it was transferred to NATO. In this case, about eight months or ten months, U.S. troops were found in our country against the Constitution. You're admitting that, too. Again, Mr. Minister, you said that our military relations with the United States were also organised with the Defence and Economic Co-operation Agreement, which was signed on 29 March 1980, other than NATO partnerships with NATO, and that the military facilities in İncirlik, Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir were in place under the agreement. Now, in the face of this situation -- according to our constitution, the presence of foreign troops in our country is subject to the approval of the Assembly -- it is evident from your response that in addition to NATO coverage, the United States, which was originally held between the United States and our country on September 14, 2011, was found for a period of time without the approval of the Assembly and without the consent of NATO. Again, U.S. soldiers who were found like this, Mr. Minister, on New Year's Eve, you know, they entered a mosque at İncirlik Base, where they destroyed the altar, reflected in public. I found out there was an investigation, but I don't know where. Now, you've just been talking about martyrdom again, and that's our belief, sir. You used religious terminology. And in a recent discourse, Mr. Minister, you have criticised us for calling you your religion, our religion, and to whom it should not be spoken, and to whom you have used the Surah of the Unbeliever. So I say, yes, Mr. Secretary, your religion is for you, our religion is for us. We are on the right side. We are on the right side. You are on the side of the oppressors and the oppressors and the imperials. You are on your side, and we are on ours. We are with the poor, and the student, and the worker, and the officer; and you spray the poor, and the worker, and the worker, and the servant, and the seeker of justice, and you throw tear-bombs; and your religion is for you, and our religion is for us. Today we are oppressed, sir, with the people of Syria, with the Aleppo, with the Damascus, with the Lazkiye, with the land, with the people of Syria. Don't support an armed group there, don't incite civil war.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0185par0285	Please speak to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0184par0286	Sir, by supporting a group of freedom-fighting Taliban, Al Qaeda, by supporting the Selafi elements (xx) you choose this path. For you is your religion, and for us is our religion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the Military Discipline Act we're talking about. Dear friends, among the conditions of disciplinary action that require caution in Article 15 of the bill, the disciplinary officer can give these sentences -- for example, the 15th article (h) was to act disrespectfully. What is it? It's vague. To whom do you think you're being disrespectful? Is it to lie in your personal life, Mr. Secretary, except to serve? That's a vague statement. What is the criteria for excessive alcohol use outside the workplace, and how much alcohol is excessive according to whom? Or, according to you or the chief, how many glasses of overuse is that, according to the disciplinary officer? At least here, you know, when you're driving a DUI, there's a measurement, so at least you can say it's a measurement, so here's 50 promils, 100 promils, it's more understandable. It's so vague, it'll be fun. Again, there is a clause called "not paying attention to personal and environmental hygiene." What do you mean, clean environment? So what we know is that the current area is cleanup? So this is what you're saying, soldiers are going to weed again? Is the disciplinary officer going to give warning to those who don't clean up? Again, there is a declaration of inadequacy in self - development. I mean, what is this, self-improvement, to whom? It's subjective, so it's not objective, it'll cause new problems. Again, in Article 16 of the bill, between the actions that require the punishment of reprimand, the abusive speech (c) is in the context of the law. Blasphemy, blasphemy, to whom? It's a very vague expression, and it'll lead to pleasure. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. (xx) The statement of this statement was included in the article "Talks About Last Report" on page 75, page 60, dated 31/01/2013. Again, dear friends, the 18th article is called discrimination between acts that require a monthly suspension. The 18th article (e) was discrimination. And the precious friends, the law on segregation, says that when you're on duty, you can't be punished if you don't have a procedure, you can't discriminate by language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophical belief, religion, sect, and so forth. In my opinion, it would be more appropriate to take any action and process by segregation there, because it would be more reasonable to establish a process and to create another condition, such as the punishment requirement, to cause unrest in the field of duty, so there is no punishment if any chief, for these reasons, discriminates between the soldiers, due to color, religion, race, religion, political thinking, if it does not cause unrest. Mr. Secretary, dear members of the Commission, I hope you can correct this, I bring constructive criticism. Again, dear friends, participating in prohibited activities in Article 18 ▪ Look, this is also very dangerous. What's he saying? It goes on and on and on, sir, the 18th article (j) was me: "Joining in prohibited activities: participating in meetings, demonstrations and walks which have been prohibited by authorities." So with your logic, the celebrations of the Republic Day of October 29th were banned by Ankara Governorate. It's the authority, right? So if a soldier, an officer, an expert sergeant, a petty officer, comes to the Nation on October 29th to celebrate the establishment of the republic, in your logic, it will be considered an act banned by the authorities, and this fellow will be sentenced to a monthly cut. This is in fact a violation of the right to meetings and demonstration walks in the European Convention on Human Rights; you cannot. This needs to be fixed. Again, there is a vague expression in (i) me about creating dissatisfaction. Again, there is an action in Article 20 -- very important -- that requires dissolution from the Armed Forces, a punishment for exporting: moral weakness. What is this moral weakness? It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on According to whom, to act contrary to the general moral nature of society? Again, (h) to marry or to live with someone like that. In his statement, you say: "Marry or stay married to such a woman." I mean, you force divorce. According to the commanding officer, your wife is unchaste. You can't live with it. It's too dangerous. Please, make these things more obvious, or else it will cause other enjoyment. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0186par0302	Thank you, Mr. Original. Düzce MP Fevai Arlen for himself. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0187par0305	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a personal oath on the draft of the Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Act 394. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Discipline is at the top of the most vital issues in the TSK. In this regard, discipline measures differ from the nature of other institutions and organisations. For discipline is one of the most essential things that can be maintained and maintained so that the TSK can carry out its duty. According to the established definition of TSK, the two basic elements of discipline are obedience and obedience to the superior law of asthma. The main purpose of the law can also be expressed as strengthening the sense of obedience in the TSK and determining the procedures and foundations for acting in accordance with the law. The disciplinary provisions imposed on TSK personnel have been brought to trial by the European Court of Human Rights on several occasions, particularly in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0188par0309	Why don't you open it?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0187par0310	In this scope, the European Court of Human Rights sentenced our country to compensation on grounds of violation of the right to freedom, security and fair trial in 2005, 2007 and 2011. With this bill designed to resolve the problems of disciplinary law in order to ensure weakness in the authority of disciplinary superiors and the command system, in accordance with the legal understanding of the day that has changed and developed, disciplinary legislation will be met in a single law. Civil officers who are still subject to military disciplinary legislation have been removed from the scope of disciplinary action and have only been adopted on the basis of the disciplinary provisions of Act 657, in parallel with the Law of State Officers No. 657, military punishment and disciplinary law systems have been independent of one another, and those who have been given disciplinary action have been re-established, even if it is possible to be issued a disciplinary punishment for their actions. Officers and petty officers have been removed from disciplinary action. Under the European Court of Human Rights rulings, the punishment for room imprisonment has been lifted, except for disciplinary action on ships outside Turkish landwaters during mobilisation and wartime. Given the principles of confidence and legality of administration, the disciplinary courts for peace have been closed, the disciplinary courts for peace time have been established, as has been defined in Law 657, as well as the needs of armed forces in Law 657, as has been defined singlely by the removal of room-incarceration sentences, as well as the disciplinary commands of the General General and Coast Guard, as well as the disciplinary committees of the General Assembly, which would instead serve a minimum brigade level of discipline. Force commanders have decided that due to disciplinary action and moral status, the removal of the armed forces has been halted, allowing those who have been left to the higher disciplinary boards to be given a punishment by the higher disciplinary boards, depending on the degree of punishment. Disciplinary disciplines issued by disciplinary officers have also been allowed to appeal to the disciplinary code of the upper command against disciplinary sentences given to a superior disciplinary officer by the disciplinary committee. I wish the bill to all the valued members of the Turkish Armed Forces, your staff, and our country's well-being, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0189par0319	Thank you, Mr. lion. Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat is not afraid. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0190par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I salute the High Council again. In my speech on the second chapter, there was not much time left for the problems of civil servants in the Turkish Armed Forces, due to a lack of time. I'd like to separate this personal conversation from their problems. There are approximately 55,000 civil servants working under Law 657 in various professions in the Ministry of National Defence and Turkish Armed Forces. These officers are on trial in the Supreme Court of Military Government, although there are no soldiers; they are also victimised by unresolved decisions. We're interviewing them, and they've visited all political parties -- including the Justice and Development Party Group. They're asking the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our friends say that the Turkish Armed Forces do not accept me for their rights or for their status as military personnel, but as for the matter of trial, they take me to military court. Now let him make a decision, am I a soldier or a civilian? Indeed, this criticism is not a very wrong criticism, and the matter must be resolved at once. There is a decision imposed on the Constitutional Court on September 20, 2012 -- which was published on December 1, 2012 -- which highlights the civilian personalities of civil servants. Again, with a decision issued at the European Court of Human Rights on May 31, 2012, he sentenced the Republic of Turkey to 15,000 euros in compensation, acting on the order that civilians cannot be tried in military courts. Article 145 of the Constitution states that civilians outside the time of war will not be tried again in military courts. When we put all this together, there's something seriously wrong. We've made a motion to eliminate this error as the National Movement Party, which will soon be on the agenda. Of course, according to the Civil Code, it is perceived as a new clause violation, and since the majority of the Commission is in the Justice and Development Party, the Commission probably can't be achieved if the Justice and Development Party does not support it. However, we once again call upon the Justice and Development Party: Please bring this change immediately, and we, the National Movement Party, will support this change. Let's get this family of civil servants with their families who have found some 250,300,000 people, into this status that they deserve immediately. My dear friends, he's got some serious problems. I, on behalf of the National Movement Party, have addressed the problems of civil servants three times on this stand. From time to time, we also refer to our Minister of National Defense as a healer, and to our President of the National Defence Commission, Mr. Oğuz Khankal Sir, but I'm afraid there has been no significant progress in dealing with these problems so far. At times, they convey their good intentions, their wishes, but unfortunately, they haven't taken a step. Now that our friends have left aside problems that could be solved by at least making laws, they want to see their very simple problems solved with Ministry notifications, with Ministry instructions, and they want to have hope against the state of the Republic of Turkey against their own ministry. And I don't think their expectations are too high. I have reason to believe that the National Ministry of Defence, especially to ensure the morale and motivation of these brothers, will focus a little more on it from now on. In this regard, we repeat our request as the National Movement Party. As I end my words here, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0191par0331	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Moving on to QA. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0192par0334	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Minister, in 2010 the Constitutional Constitutional Supreme Court shall be regulated by law through the registration and autonomy of members of the Supreme Court. The law of compliance, which has been passed, however, has not yet been passed by Turkey's Grand National Assembly. How fair is it that a judge's guarantee and judicial independence carried out by the Chief of Staff should be shown as a judicial path from the Turkish Armed Forces to those who have been cut off from the path of justice through an open administrative procedure? Since AYM was a fair trial, why was it given to those who had been cut off from this decision, instead of applying to the court, that they were entitled to the rights of equity with Article 32?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0191par0336	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0193par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. On December 10, 2012, the United States added the El Nusra Front to the list of terrorist organisations, stating that the El Nusra Front was one of the most common names used by Al Qaeda. The AKP government insists on not calling the Al Nusra Front a terrorist organisation. Turkey's financial, military and logistical support for El Nusra is also available in international media. Minister, do you consider the El Nusra Front a terrorist organization? Has the El Nusra Front been provided with financial, military, logistical support, including your knowledge? Are there any guarantees or guarantees that the El Nusra Front will not take action against citizens of Turkey or against citizens of Turkey? How do you feel about the possibility that Turkey's support for the El Nusra Front will one day finance terrorist acts against our citizens? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0194par0342	Thank you, Count Erdemir. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0195par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we know that only one member of the Turkish Armed Forces in the history of the Republic has been cut off from the charge of espionage. In the case of military espionage and blackmail, the second is currently seen in Izmir, while more than 400 people are charged with espionage. You're the Secretary of National Defense, our Chief of Staff is already on duty, and you have a very experienced military bureaucracy with you. There are 400 spies in an army, but is it possible that this army doesn't know about this? If you're aware, have you launched an investigation into this, have you done any legal action? No, are you aware that as Secretary of State of Defense, as in all modern countries, you're going to resign as a weakness to see that an army that depends on you hasn't identified 400 spies before a prosecutor? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0196par0348	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0197par0350	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister said something like, "Never mind the European Union, I've spoken to Putin. I'll join the Shanghai Five." Now, have you discussed such an important security policy change in Turkey before in the boards? If you have spoken, Mr. Prime Minister, how can we take the names of a six-member international institution called the Shanghai Co-operation Organization, based on what information as the Shanghai Five, so how can we take them seriously? Is it that simple to talk about such important matters? Can you tell me how this happened?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0196par0351	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0198par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on October 22, 2012, a General Assembly of the Army was released by the Army Command in 1900-299557-12. Information and documents proving that there is no right to an acquittal, prosecution by the judicial courts due to an action carried out by the dissolution and immoral element in this sector (data, victim statements, expert reports) if there is no right to prosecute them, there is no duty, there is no right to dismiss, there is no duty, there is a dismissal, there is a delay, there is a delay and there is a similar decision on the staff, there will be a dissolution if there is an act against disciplinary or immoral conduct (i.e.g., there is a charge, there will be a dissolution.e.k.g.g.g.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a. This law you're bringing in right now, it seems to contradict the generality a little bit. It's also a command floor, a command-signed sentence. So, are you familiar with this sentence? This is a generalization of national military elements charged with prostitution and blackmail.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0196par0355	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Aldan...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0199par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, since the civil war began in Syria, are there any personnel from the Turkish Armed Forces, Police General Directorate and National Intelligence Agency who have trained in the Free Syrian Army or any other opposition group? Two: What are the numbers of those who are separated from the AGE and other savings from the TSK? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0200par0361	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0201par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Turkey is NATO territory. It's been said that the Patriots have arrived and have been placed in different parts of our country. The chairman of the Dutch House of Representatives Defence Committee, who visited us as the Dutch Friendship Group, said the Patriots belong to their country, so if we use these Patriots, some expenses must be paid by us on this commission, which I am involved in. I wonder, if this is NATO soil, if the Patriots belong to NATO, there is no problem, but if the Patriots belong to the Netherlands, we all know that the presence of this armed force on our land is subject to the permission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so can you explain this complex situation? Is there also a demand for our firm control over the throats from states we believe to be allies of the Montrö Treaty to be breached? Does the resignations in the Navy have anything to do with these demands?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0202par0366	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0203par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it has been identified by state official inspectors that one of the most intensive border crossings of drug and imaginary trade, which are some of the most important financial resources of the PKK's terrorist organisation, is the Esendere Border Gate in Hakkari Yüksekova. Have any reports come to your Ministry to shut this down, and what has been done so far about securing it? Secondly, does your ministry have a study in order to convert the Air Private Training Brigade from Kütahya to a division? If so, where is this study at? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer me. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0204par0372	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0374	Mr. President, first of all, the arrangement we've brought in -- as we said in our first statement -- is the collection of disorganized legislation, nothing new. There are existing laws of debt and inability to pay their debts; there are existing laws of weakness; there are existing regulations; there are existing laws to conduct obstructions of service; there are existing legislation to explain confidential information; there are existing activities for Ideological and political purposes; there are laws, there are long-term escapes; there are habits of disinciplination.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0206par0375	It does, Mr. Secretary, so fear God. It's in the old legislation, it's in the old legislation...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0376	We're picking up the messy ones, that's what we said. We didn't bring anything new. Look, it's very clear...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0206par0377	Which one are you bringing?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0378	Either you listen or you don't, two things... if you're talking about what I'm saying, then you know about this, you don't want to listen. Then please listen. After that, you have the right to ask questions again.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0206par0379	I say something else, you say something else.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0380	No, I don't have to say what you said.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0206par0381	I'm listening, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0382	Good. I've got Law 657 ahead of me. If we act on the same logic as you say, Law 657 has been in the state's hands for years. When you're out of your mind... how drunk is he? Who's gonna know about the drunk? ▪ Drinking alcohol at the station. • Drinking, but how much will he drink?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0206par0384	It's not getting drunk on duty, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0385	▪ What is immoral, and what is immoral, and what is immoral, and what is immoral, and what is immoral, and what is immoral, and what is immoral? Therefore, it is necessary for the public official to again remove the peace and quiet of the institution from the state office in the current 657. So there's nothing against the law that we bring in, all of which are in harmony with our current legislation, or with the 657. We've collected our laws in different places under a text. So here we are in law... Two: any actions and procedures of the administration are subject to judicial supervision. None of the disciplinary measures we brought in here were pre-judgmental, and now we're putting them under judicial supervision. As for the reprimand, if the disciplinary fines from them exceed a certain amount, then he will be suspended from the institution, which is subject to the military Supreme Court's supervision. In this case, the Supreme Court of Military Government has the authority to examine which punishment was given on what grounds, and to consider whether the grounds were legal, if necessary. He's got a right to a new one when he doesn't have the right to go down the road of judgment. So it's a more democratic, more appropriate issue. Another thing, sir, is that our armed forces...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0207par0388	Mr. Secretary, please, I'm reading the 15th article's (k) joke: "The use of alcohol outside of work," not at the duty site, but at the end of the shift. They're misleading you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0389	Never mind that man, he's an alcoholic. No member of our Armed Forces would want to carry such an expression. That's very true.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0207par0390	Don't say that, say "alcoholic" then, say "alcoholic."
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0208par0391	You even made him a terrorist.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0392	Between 1984 and 2009, the AGE decision was cut off from 1,543 personnel. The answer to another question is: Law No. 22/05/2012 and the application of administrative records for military judges and prosecutors is terminated. Therefore, there is no application to give military judges a record. The members of the military Supreme Court have not been given any record since 1972, when the court was established. Again, between 2001-2012, 2,604 personnel were cut off due to desertion, overborrowing, moral reasons, theft, bribery, drugs and general discipline. In the meantime, I'd like to give you another piece of information. This was applied to 4,607 people under the Law 6191; 1,544 (a.k. a.k. a.k.a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. The reason for the 2,838 (a.k.a. 2.838) of the 3,063 application has been rejected is that the judiciary will be cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces with open transactions. The reason for 225 is the quality and property of the verbs established under Articles 50 and 94 of the Law on State Officers No. 657, Article 926 of Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law. I've got a list of people involved in a shooting, drug trafficking, but we're not saying any of that. Another... 851 personnel have filed a lawsuit against the decision made by the National Defence Minister -- which we have made -- have been dismissed by 394, and 10 personnel have won their case. For these people who won the cases, the law was later enforced. As a result of judicial decisions, 4,607 applications were accepted, 3,050 applications were rejected, 691 were appointed as investigators to public institutions and institutions by the State Staff Presidency. The employees who have been accepted have been granted pensions, while the non-retired have been granted the right to work as a public institution. They were also given weapons, ID cards, weapons licenses and passports. They are also entitled to the social rights of retired Turkish Armed Forces. Another thing: We are supporters of the Syrian people, not of any terrorist organization or of anyone who supports terrorism.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0209par0397	Isn't El Nusra a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0398	Very clearly, therefore, as a terrorist organization, we are not a supporter of any organization, of anything. Is another Turkey NATO territory? The point is: NATO is a joint security system. In NATO's aim, the Washington Convention is to attack all of them. We say within NATO, there is a threat, a risk; let's take advantage of NATO's opportunities against the perception of this risk.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0210par0400	Is Turkey NATO soil, Minister?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0205par0401	Another thing: look, we didn't pay anywhere and buy a Patriot missile. We didn't give him the money. This is NATO opportunities, because of NATO opportunities, we didn't make our demands from the Netherlands, we didn't make our demands from Germany, we didn't make our demands from the United States; we made our demands from NATO. Look, NATO doesn't have its own gun, it doesn't have its own ball, but the countries that include NATO... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that NATO has established for its purposes. Thus, the limits to which Turkey should be protected are the limits of NATO. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0211par0405	Who do you want to protect Turkey from, Minister? Minister, who do you want to protect Turkey from?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0212par0406	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0213par0407	Mr. President, there's something...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0212par0408	Mr. Moroglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0213par0409	I asked a very clear question in order for our council to make this decision, and the answer was taken otherwise. Once again, do you or do you not know the El Nusra organization as a terrorist organization? The U.S. knows, do you or don't you? That's what I'm asking. We want an answer to that.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0214par0410	He doesn't have to answer.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0215par0411	No answer.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0213par0412	We're not asking you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0216par0413	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0217par0414	So there's nothing we can do about it. If he hasn't answered your question, he hasn't, we can't...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0218par0415	Mr. Secretary, there's an undersecretary here.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0217par0416	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0219par0417	Mr. President, referring to my speech, Mr. Secretary said that actions that are now considered undisciplined were in the previous law, even in the Law of State Officers. If you'll excuse me for a moment, Mr. Secretary, he's been misinformed.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0220par0418	Mr. President, there's nothing, there's a challenge. They're calling it.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0219par0419	Sir, I didn't mention anything about being drunk on duty because the law says: "Excessive use of alcohol outside the office." They misled the Minister. Again, sir, there's no such thing as getting married or living like this or getting married to a woman who's no good in the State Officers' Law, but the Minister said it again. Please, I'm asking you, so this is an arrangement in favor of your soldiers and your friends here. Make it clear, or it'll be fun. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0422	Thank you, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0222par0423	Minister, do you wish to exercise your right to remain silent about the El Nusra Front?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0424	Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your votes after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0223par0426	You didn't answer the question of resignation, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0224par0427	These people know who supports the terrorists, don't worry.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0428	I submit Article 22 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 24 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 25 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1st joke of Article 25 of the 1/394th law bill is to be removed from the text of the article; Coming up after the 2nd joke, The situation of conscientious objectors is excluded from the scope. We offer and provide the addition of the declaration. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0225par0441	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0442	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0226par0443	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0444	Motive... The punishment in the room was intended to be waived because there was no human punishment worthy of it. Besides, most of the military deaths take place during room-to-room jails. The change aims to prevent spiritual and physical damage and a human rights violation during the time of the military incarceration. The denial of Vicdani is that a person does not want to serve in religion, morally, and therefore refuses to serve in military service. Thus, it was intended to prevent the rights of conscientious objectors, using the widest form of appreciation for conscientious objectors. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 26: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The period of this sentence is not uninterrupted. With all due respect, I offer and offer that the sentence be changed in the following manner, added to the expression that cannot be carried out at a continuous time. Kemal Ekinci Haluk Ahmet Balık Mustafa Moroğlu Ahmet Toptaş Ali Sarıbaş Aydın Ayayadın Ali İhsan İkturk Rahmi Love Türeli Mahmoud Tanal Article 26- (1) The penalty for unauthorized conduct is that privates and privates are not allowed to take advantage of their weekend vacation. The term of punishment is not continuous. The sentence cannot be carried out indefinitely. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of Article 26 of the 394 bill be removed from the text of the article. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Abdullah Levent corporate Secret Sakık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0227par0468	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0469	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0228par0470	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0471	Motive... The punishment for the room was intended to be waived because it was not a humane punishment. Besides, most of the military deaths take place during room-to-room jails. The change aims to prevent spiritual and physical damage and a human rights violation during the time of the military incarceration. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The period of this sentence is not uninterrupted. With all due respect, I offer and offer that the sentence be changed in the following manner, added to the expression that cannot be carried out at a continuous time. Kemal Ekinci (Bursa) and his friends Article 26- (1) The penalty for unauthorized conduct is that privates and privates are not allowed to take advantage of their weekend vacation. The term of punishment is not continuous. The sentence cannot be carried out indefinitely. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0229par0481	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0482	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0230par0483	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0484	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0231par0485	Aykan Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0221par0486	Mr. Erdemir, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0232par0488	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm not here tonight to talk about matter, I'm here to make a note of history tonight, and I'm here to have a friendly chat with our friends from the AKP. Look, our foreign policy in Syria may be different, and foreign policy differences may be respected, but what we insist upon is that even the United States on December 10, 2012 classified the Al Nusra Front as a terrorist organization fighting in Syria as a terrorist organization, and it said that the Al Qaeda organization was a contractor name. We insist on asking from here. I've asked two different ministers before. I asked Mr. Secretary this evening, and I didn't get any response from all three of our ministers. Has the Republic of Turkey classified the El Nusra Front as a terrorist organization, or is it in league with the El Nusra Front, an organization known to the world as a terrorist organization? Look, in the international press, the commanders of the El Nusra Front are confessing, saying: "We received cash from the Republic of Turkey officials, we received logistical support, we received weapons. Officials of the Republic of Turkey, our ministers have not issued a single statement concerning these allegations, and so far, when we ask three different ministers about this, the El Nusra Front cannot say that they are terrorists. Look, it's not a foreign policy difference; it's a matter of legitimacy; it's a matter of crimes against humanity. Let's move on: these crimes come out one by one with their documents. On January 21, 2013, the documents that the hackers seized and shared with the public were announced by Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu and Tamim Bin Hamed. Despite our press release on this subject, there has been no denial. The Foreign Minister also accepts these reports. Look, what's on these books? Our Foreign Minister, who complains that even Al Jazeera had criticised Turkey's policy regarding Syria, wants pressure on this channel. When a similar pressure arose, the German President resigned. Will our Foreign Minister be able to show that anyone can be a politician, but only some of them can be a statesman, can he prove it, will he be able to do it; if he doesn't comply, will he be able to fulfill his responsibility for the attempt to censor an international media organization? I don't think so. Look, so far we have criticised the foreign policy of Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, and we have said that selefi foreign policy, sectarian foreign policy, will only cause great disasters for Turkey and the Middle East for the world as well. But we always thought that Turkey was going after selefi politics. But look, what do we see in these recent leaked hackers? Turkey's predecessor is not pursuing politics. Even his predecessor, politics, unfortunately, is more discreet than Turkey's politics today. I regret to say, look how the Crown Prince, the Crown Crown Prince, warns Mr. Davutoglu in the articles: there are problems between the Nusai and the Sunni in Syria. You can't blame minorities for wondering what's going to happen to them. This problem must be resolved in the next process. So even Qatar, who we think is behind the selefi politics today, who we think is his financier, warns Mr. Davutoglu, who is even the Crown Prince of Qatar, who warns him because of his sectarian politics, invites him to be more balanced about Syria. Look, the high-value lawmakers, Turkey's Selef, Al Qaeda, Al Nusra policy, have no place to reach, and I'm urging the Turkish Armed Forces not to participate in these games, not to become a cult army, not to be a terrorist supporter. Let's not forget the Nürnberg Court. Even if they give you orders, you must not obey these illegitimate, illegitimate orders.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0233par0495	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 27th article, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I'd like to propose and submit to you the following amendment to Article 27 of the current bill of the 394 rows. Kemal Ekcici Ali İhsan İkturk Ahmet Toptaş Aydın Ağan Ayyadın Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Article 27 - (4) Administrator and Ere, who have done any disciplinary work on ships outside the Turkish Blackwaters during the time of peace, may be sentenced to room detention by the disciplinary chief in accordance with the timetable No. 1, given the nature of the action and the negative impact on discipline. The execution and supervision of this sentence shall be carried out according to the Administration of the Military Penalties and the execution of the Penalties. The part of this sentence that has not been carried out except in the territorial waters is served as a fine of additional service. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0234par0509	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0233par0510	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0235par0511	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0233par0512	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0236par0513	Motive...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0233par0514	Motive... The regulation, which corresponds to the removal of the sentences referred to as "dissolution" and the correction of disciplinary sentences, was intended to reduce this sentence to the lowest standards of the military Penalty and Execution of the Criminals, as well as correcting negative conditions that are not appropriate in the human honor of the prison sentences imposed on other Turkish Blackwaters. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 40th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 1/394 law shall be changed from the 1/394 working day to the 1/394 working day, which is part of the second sentence of the 40th article. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0237par0539	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0233par0540	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0238par0541	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0233par0542	Motive... Since the person may need more time to prepare his defenses, it has been suggested that a change be made by betting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section three. The third section is the 45th and second joke of the 45th article, (a), (a), (a), (b), (b), (b), and (c) bents of the 4th joke, (a), (a), (a), (a), and (b) belles of the 12th and 13th joke, (b) the interim jokes of the 12th and 13th joke, (b) the interim articles, and the interim articles of the 9th article (a), and (a), the 10th joke (a) and (b). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Mustafa Moroglu. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0239par0557	Mr. President, my dear friends, we are negotiating the disciplinary decisions of the Turkish Armed Forces, but we also want to share our thoughts with all our friends in the Parliament about issues concerning Turkey that concern Turkey, and we ask our Minister some questions because it will be effective in the decisions that we will make, and perhaps other members of parliament with these warnings, and we would like to encourage them to take a more accurate stance on the decisions they may make later. Now, the answers we have asked our Minister are as follows: Ali is our original friend, making some criticisms that are appropriate in his own way and in our opinion about the matter in the Law of Discipline. Our minister's answer is: we're not organizing anything new, we're putting together the arrangements that exist. So we have no intention of making a change in them. Then he did not go to the judge, and in the past, the disciplinary staff could not apply for a trial, and now we are bringing in a new arrangement, he says. Now, in comparison to these two answers, we can think of one thing: is the National Defence Ministry not determined to make changes to the arrangement, and we can't get a clear answer to whether or not they want to make an arrangement to meet the demands of civil servants above us, without having to change it again -- just as we had warned you from the beginning. A friend of ours is asking another question -- just like our friend who just spoke from the podium -- we're not getting a clear answer. We ask him a question about opium, and we don't get a clear answer. Now, our fellow civil servants, who served in the Turkish Armed Forces, have told us that before this bill came to our Commission, they've visited all the members of the group, the commissioners, and when we asked them, they used a statement that each of our friends, every member of the law, every member of the group, and our commissioner, had a positive view of it. So we came, and we gave that thought to the Commission. Our friend, who was just speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party, made a statement of will at the point of resolving this injustice, and we gave the same thought. Now, when all the opposition groups and the associations of all our fellow civil servants have made a request for this, why don't we all pass a law on the right of civil servants to object to civil courts instead of the Military Supreme Administration Court? Our proposal has not been accepted in the commission, but time has not passed. Let's give each of us the right to appeal to civil courts with a new clause. We also stated on the commission that there are two Constitutional Court rulings. For some reason, it is not possible to deny this: they cannot be tried in the Supreme Court of Military Government, or tried in civil courts if a criminal case has been filed against them. The Constitutional Court has made a decision. Now, isn't disciplinary action a punishment? Don't disciplinary measures include a lack of rights? So how do you explain these two different attitudes? Once again, it's not the past, let's give these fellow civil servants a chance to appeal to the sentences of our fellow civil servants. We'd like to ask another question and get a clear answer to that. On 30 November 2012, the Vecihi Akin Barrack in İzmir was taken over by the United States Army Commander Frederick Ben Hodges, which is the first time in his history that the Army Commander of NATO was formed in İzmir Smurfyer. What is the purpose of setting up the NATO Army Command at Izmir Smurfyer, and handing over that barracks to the commander of the United States? Is it the result of a savings in harmony with the settlement of the Patriots to our country's lands? You didn't answer a lot of questions about the operation that was intended for Syria, and you've always gone around the corner, does it have anything to do with it? Is this where an action against the ground forces will be led? Why would that be necessary? Izmir could not tolerate the surrender of the Army Command of Izmir (Izmir) to the Commander of the Land Forces of the United States. We don't want any war to be led by Turkey, but we don't want it to be led by İzmir. We expect realistic and clear explanations about this. Our Izmirian citizens, like our Turkish citizens, do not want to sacrifice their wealth and resources for the purposes of other countries and to transfer their barracks to other countries, and they are carefully monitoring the actions of the AKP's government. Minister, we want a clear answer on these matters. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0240par0565	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Alim Ik will speak. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0241par0569	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group over the third chapter of the 394th legislature, which is being discussed. I hereby salute you all at this time of night. Dear lawmakers say we agree exactly with the views expressed by the respected lawmakers who spoke before us on many issues, and of course many pensioners or still serving in the Turkish Armed Forces have been working for a long time with the government, with the minister involved in solving the current issues of the regular soldier. In response to a motion we gave to the Minister on this matter, he stated that there were serious arrangements being made and that last July the draft of the draft law was sent to the Prime Minister. We hope that this draft will come to the High Council as soon as possible, and at least some of its expectations will be met. Again, with Mr. Minister's statements, the laws covering our veterans and relatives today have been reviewed, with the number of laws covered by different rights, and under different provisions of nearly 70. Again, it has been explained to us that it is the ministry that conducts the process of collecting legislation. I'd like to express to you that the immediate removal of this would please the victims in this matter. Mr. Secretary, as you well know, especially the families of the martyrs, the disability and the demands of the malnourished veterans are on the agenda. Many of these problems have been transmitted so far, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, few, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many. I'd like to give you a summary of the wishes and demands of the victims of these groups, who have reached all of us and have visited our groups from time to time. First of all, the demand for increased salaries for martyr parents must be met without delay. Although some improvements have been made in the law on July 4, 2012, some improvements have been made to the families and veterans of the martyrs, there has been no serious increase in raising the parents' salary, which has burned their hearts out. Again, I would like to say that the demands for awards to those given the State Medal of Honor are a reasonable demand, and the demands must be met at once. There are still 53,000 people who have been honored, and around 10,000 of them have been awarded a medal of pride. The State Medal of Honor and the request for an arrangement on this matter is a very good request. The demand for sub-income loans for responsibilities is considered to be a very reasonable demand for those -- given to sub-income groups through TOKI -- with or without low interest or interest, where many people are being taken advantage of. In particular, we believe that in the bag of legislation that I mentioned earlier, the demand to extend the second right of employment to the families of martyrs to all martyrs should be judged positively by the High Assembly. Again, I would like to share with you that the request for an old-age-month commitment on the day of the 3,600 bonuses of war and duty. Another issue was much debated as we again removed the Bedelli Military Law. The priced military fees collected because of this law were decided to be spent on families of martyrs and veterans. But I would like to share with you the fact that these sums of money have not been delivered to these families until now and express that the promise of this great House must be fulfilled. The demands to increase the pensions of war and duty are also very reasonable and reasonable. With the necessary arrangement, this must be carried out immediately. Another demand, war and duty disability needs to be met with a lack of orthesis and prosthetics. The required arrangement must be carried out immediately in Law 5510. Another request to increase the additional payment, as well as education, teaching and tobacco assistance, is still a proper request, which must be met without delay. Harp and duty is one of the major demands of this division to provide employment for the relatives of the martyrs and their disability. We hope that this will surely be judged by the High Assembly. Another demand is to be extended according to Article 5434, Article 77, and to remove the victim's victims from the previous bag of legislation. With the addition of senior personnel to the relevant law, the demands for resolving the victim must be evaluated. Another important issue is the VAT and OTV exemption, which is that the right foot is now missing, and the rate of injury is 90 per cent, and for those of our veterans with more than 90 per cent, it is also important to expand the purchase of the VAT and OTV exemption to other veterans and to address the dispute between our veterans. It is an important demand that the education of children of martyrs and malaise veterans should be opened at the foundation universities and that a certain amount of scholarships be met by the university administration or by our state. According to Anti-Terror Law 3713, the demand for a ten-to- fifteen-year lease period for those who receive rent assistance is still an important requirement to be evaluated by our Grand Assembly. Aids provided by social welfare must also be rearranged. Sometimes there are serious differences, even among the governorates of the same province. In particular, the issue of the holiday, pre-season aid, which some do not do, or in different quantities, which are being delivered to families under the same name is causing serious discomfort. Another demand, again, has become inevitable, that all of this will be collected under one roof by the dissolution of the legislation. One of the main issues is the support of the organisation of organisations in the case of NGOs, which are involved in this matter, and it is an important demand for a partial financial aid. Another issue, valued lawmakers, though not directly concerned with the Ministry of National Defence, is that the volunteers and temporary village rangers in particular have serious casualties. Village rangers also need to be considered insured, to contribute a small amount of debt to the state, especially after 25 years in office, and to amend their demands that the volunteers and temporary village rangers who receive an aging pension should increase their monthly change between $350 and $480. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And lastly, I salute you all, that the demand for weapons licenses must be met, especially for the rangers who were taken after serving here.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0242par0594	Thank you, Mr. Light. Hatay MP Chiefk Ugly. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0243par0598	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect, love and respect, sir. Now, at the point of discussion of this law -- and I want to know about it -- I want to talk a little bit about Hatay, I want to talk about the border. You know, according to our laws, our military awaits our borders, it's the duty of the Turkish Armed Forces. Mr. Secretary, while you're at peace, Hatay is in a lot of trouble right now, so I'd like to talk to you about a few important events, which time allows. For example, in a border battle, three Syrian soldiers, by chance our border province, my county, will fall into the town of Reyhanli, and will not be able to back down again, this is the war, in the terms of the war. Our Reyhan people take them, clean themselves, feed themselves, and wait for the morning to deliver them to the authorities. That's what this is all about. Then 18 Free Syrian Army fighters arrive, taking these three Syrian soldiers at gunpoint, at threat. He doesn't want to give the Reyhanite, he's ashamed. These are guests in our house, he says, "We're entrusted." And he takes them by force. It's 7 or 8 kilometers apart. Isn't there anyone at this border, Mr. Secretary? No surveillance towers? Don't we have soldiers?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0244par0601	He must have turned into a kevgire.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0245par0602	They do.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0243par0603	Now, these are concrete events, sir. The age of olive oil begins in our town of Altınözu. They start at $4.5 million to sell olive oil. Olive oil drops to $2 million all of a sudden. The reason is investigated, from Syria about 80 to 100 tonnes of oil per day, even if it's smuggling, not in a normal commercial way, but by buying from Syria, which is the same army, and olive oil falls to 2 million. They're all borderline. So the last time, the men came in -- they reflected in the press -- this time four Syrian military or Syrian security forces, three Syrian nationals, kidnapped an opposing lawyer living in Antioch, and our soldier, our police, this time made an operation, caught him on the road. They came from the border on their way here. The animal's coming, it's not enough... the car rentals in Ankara are standing. Tools are rented from many provinces of Turkey, especially Ankara, and -- we don't know how to cross this border -- are taken to the Free Syrian Army and sold there. It's in the press. So the Turkish Armed Forces are not helpless. He can't be incapable of protecting the border of the Turkish Armed Forces. He's been doing it so far. Please... we're in a very uncomfortable situation as Hatay. We've lost our peace. So, Dear Minister, we'd appreciate it if you'd look into this matter. This can't go on. Hatay is a happy province that lives in a union with the Arab people of Sunni, with the Kurdish people of the Arab people, with the Suryani, and almost the capital of this tolerance, thanks to you, the government's attitude has gradually become a province that has become an embodiment of this peace. Please... It's all over and cotton's here. So if the cotton farmer comes in tomorrow for $300,000, and 500 grand for cotton, it's over. There's a huge economic damage. You can't take economic measures, so at least wait for our limit. So what did you do to the Turkish Armed Forces at this point, as a government, what did you say that the Turkish Armed Forces were unable to do so? The flaw here is not in the Armed Forces, but in our opinion, it is in the government. With these thoughts and feelings, I offer you all respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit04spe0246par0610	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0246par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 394. The commission and the government are in place. We came to the QA section. Mr. Ugly? No. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0247par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister said in a television program where he neglected to use a prompter, take us into the Shanghai Five, and we'll order to the European Union. Let's leave. Did you, as Minister of National Defence, warn the Prime Minister at the point where the organization called the Shanghay Five was among the pages of history 12 years ago? Did you say that the organization was transformed into Shanghai Co-operation with Uzbekistan's participation in 2001? Did you recall that this organization, consisting of six members, five observers and three dialogue partners, gave Turkey the status of a dialogue partner at the Summit of State Presidents gathered in Beijing on 7 June 2012? Have you informed the Prime Minister that the process of a country's separation from international organisations is not going to be by Allah's command? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0248par0010	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0249par0012	Mr. Secretary, in the last ten years has there been an attack-bot tender for the Turkish Armed Forces? If such a tender was made, how much is the price of this tender? What firm did, Mr. Secretary? And don't interrupt me while I'm talking in your manner in the last question.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0250par0014	No, I...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0249par0015	See, now you've done the same thing. And when you're asked this question -- I'm reading it in my language -- we call it "stupid." You say "stupid." Look, we have respect for the ministers, of course, within the state tradition, but you have to show that respect to the MPs. Because we can be rude to your rudeness. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0251par0018	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0252par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, would you consider the resignation when we say, "Will there be 400 spies in an army?" You had no idea that you didn't answer this question before the prosecutor filed the indictment. The Chief of Staff, when we said 400 spies, said: "Don't say "Casus," you're violating the purity of innocence. For eight months we've told him against the continued efforts of certain media companies to discredit the staff there with some ugly metaphors. There has not been a single explanation against those institutions -- if it has been done, you can tell the date and how it was done -- but if we tell our report that there are 400 spies in an army, wouldn't there be news? The General Staff and you act in self-defense reflex. However, they say: "We were willing to die, but what killed us was the disinterest of the General Staff and the Ministry of National Defence. Please respond this time.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0251par0022	Thank you, Mr. Special. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0253par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the wives of some soldiers in the Turkish Armed Forces who work in other public institutions and organisations, especially their spouses working in contracts, are unable to take advantage of the appointment of the apology group for lack of a norm staff where they go, and the families are in disintegration. Is there anything your Ministry can do about this by interviewing other ministries? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0254par0027	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0255par0029	Mr. Secretary, Israel has fulfilled the AKP's dream today. Today it is said that Israel attacked Syria twice and hit its targets twice. Do you think the AKP and Israel entered arm in arm? I'd also like to ask who opened the NATO guarantee for Israel. What will Turkey do when Israel attacks Syria, what will it think of Israel attacking a neighbouring country, and what will it do? I'm waiting for your answers on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0254par0031	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Ugly...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0256par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary, as it is known, we have arrested regular soldiers, and their promotions are being legally challenged, so a soldier has served this stove for many years, dreamed of carrying this honorable uniform, and has finally achieved that dream. Now I'm reminded of the operation, again, that they were charged with an assassination, and as far as I know, they were acquitted, so I believe that there should be a study on the subject of the promotion of the arrested staff, in which case there may be a possibility of acquittal. Are you planning on doing a study on this? Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0257par0036	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0258par0038	Minister, from time to time, our government officials and ministers did not accept this decision, and I was grieved by this decision. The three acquittals of Pınar Selek, known as the Egyptian Market case, which has been concluded for the past 15 years and has been acquitted at the end of three trials, are not enough, let us give another life sentence. Do you have an explanation for this, or did it really hurt your conscience? After three acquittals, how was such a decision made? We'd like to hear from you on behalf of the government. What progress has been made regarding the explosion of our arsenal in Opium -- specifically -- that they want answers? What has been done, and will there be a study of finding the responsible and revealing the true cause of this explosion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0257par0040	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0259par0042	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, there are about 200,000 refugees in the provinces of Şanlıurfa, Kilis, Gaziantep, Hatay. As a result of the feeding of these refugees there, we see many people begging in the streets as guests, and the number of beggars has increased greatly. People find it very uncomfortable to walk around and around in the hall of glory. Do you intend to take precautions on that? My second question: the Ministry of Health, you know, provides lawyers or legal aid to health workers in regards to violence and other incidents. Are you particularly interested in helping them with law and defense in court because your commanders are being unjustly detained inside?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0260par0045	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0261par0047	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I asked if the National Security Council has made a decision or assessment of the talks with this PKK and Imralı. I can't tell you what's going on. You said it. Look, Mr. Necdet, the Chief of Staff, says in an interview he gave me, I learned about this interview from the press, and I don't know where it happened, and I don't know what conditions it was under. Actions outside the security dimension of the fight against terrorism are the issues that are at the disposal of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and our government. In this case, your statement of the National Security Council that a matter which Mr. Chief of Staff, which he states does not know, may have been evaluated on the National Security Council, contradicts that, and that these talks are being carried out on the basis of the government's saving except the security dimension of security. The government is proving that the promise of the National Security Council remains in the air.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0260par0049	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0262par0051	Mr. President, members of parliament, first of all, Deputy Moroglu associated the Patriots with the establishment of NATO's Army Command in İzmir, and said, "Is there a connection between the two of them?" He said, "There is an American commander here, and the American brought him here." Sheikh Sadi has a good saying. So this is an expression that the NATO system is unknown, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0263par0052	Is that what Sheikh Sadi says?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0262par0053	He does not know that if he asks, he will surely know. He says so, and so does he.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0264par0055	That's the answer, thank you!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0262par0056	Yeah, very clear. NATO's Naval Command is in England, the Allied Navy Command is in Naples, Italy. NATO's Allied Air Force is in Remscheid, Germany, and the Army is in İzmir. It's also about the power of the countries to take those powers, let me make it clear. Many states have been asked to take the ground forces, but it has been given to Turkey. Other than that, NATO has a civilian structure, a military structure. I count NATO units: Belgium, the Netherlands, England, Germany, Italy, Turkey, Greece, Larissa, Portugal, Poland, France, and other member states. Other than that -- in case you have any information -- even in Moscow, Russia has an information office, and Kiev has an information and documentation center in Ukraine. So, if you turn it on, you'll see on NATO's website, at least on one point on this site... he said there's an American commander here. He said, yes, but we have five generals and 230 officers in various countries of NATO, but no German MP gets up and asks, "What is the Turkish general in our Remscheid?" Because he knows about it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another issue -- Mr. Deputy -- actually -- is that if we had a hundred percent respect for every law, we shouldn't have brought anything to the trial today, including the Selek case, including Ergenekon. You can't even ask questions about a case that's been seen because you lead the judge with questions and answers.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0265par0062	This is the Prime Minister speaking...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0266par0063	Can you remind the Prime Minister of that?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0262par0064	Now, about this Izmir case... I've read the indictment of the Izmir case myself, and I'll advise those who are curious to read it. This is not a case directed at members of the Armed Forces. Complicated, the people running the gang are civilians. ▪ Confiscation of data against the rule of law. • TCK 136: establishing an organization for the purpose of committing a crime, becoming a member of the organization./CK 220: providing documents relating to the security of the state, taking or stealing them by deceit. ▪ TCK 326, 327: possessing documents related to the security of the state. There are many institutions in Turkey if you look at them from top to bottom. Oh, let's see if these allegations are true or false, let's let the judge take a look at them. Which document is respected, which document is not respected, which documents are concerned with the safety of the state, which is not about security, and which is not about the opinion of the judiciary. I think I'll take the stand and let no one decide. Someone else -- Mr. Congressman -- has asked -- about the promotions of those who have been in our Armed Forces for many years and who are now inside. I'm just saying that... those who were sent to retirement in this High Military Sura have nothing to do with the arrest, and I'm very clear about that. I'll give you two names: One of them, the head of the Treasury, Fevzi, was generous, Lieutenant General, retired due to lack of staff. There wasn't a single case against him. Another, Lieutenant General Necati Özbaha, there was not a single case against him, due to his lack of staff...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0267par0066	I didn't say he'd be transferred, Minister, I said he couldn't be promoted.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0262par0067	But here's what I think is that those who are due to this era can be evaluated, but those who have not been sued because of lack of staff, as you can see, those who have been sued may also be retired.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0267par0068	Mr. Secretary, is his arrest an obstacle to his promotion or not?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0268par0069	Engel.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0267par0070	Isn't that an obstacle, sir?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0268par0071	Engel. Please tell me the truth.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0267par0072	I want an answer to that question.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0269par0073	One other thing...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0267par0074	I didn't get an answer, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0269par0075	Another thing... very clearly... so if he's acquitted, he'll be given back his rights...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0270par0076	How?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0269par0077	...but as the trial process continues...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0270par0078	Wait a minute, we're going to do a "flashback" to the Military Sura!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0271par0079	That's what I'm asking, Mr. Secretary. Then do such a study.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0269par0080	The Turkish Armed Forces have a separate relationship with their spouses...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0271par0081	No, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0269par0082	Look, it's very clear that in the Internal Service Law... let me read the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 926: there are no promotions or phased advancements of those who have been arrested or appointed, but who have continued prosecution or trial or have not yet been granted a sentence, except for a short-term escape and a grant.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0272par0083	He's right...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0271par0084	Thank you, Minister. That's where you read my question. That was my question. I want answers, sir, won't you make a improvement?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0273par0086	Oh, good. Here, the judgment has to be decided very quickly.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0271par0087	Speedy judgment, sir?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0273par0088	This is the judgment of all of us, the judgment of Turkey. He'll have to do it right away.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0271par0089	Well, that's the law, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0273par0090	Why? Look, the causality of innocence means that they may be innocent. So don't put him down for a day if you have to. Why, why? It's cruel, it's unfair, to put the innocent in jail for one day.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0271par0091	The Ancestors have been acquitted, Minister.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0273par0092	Another question is whether or not our deputy should be paid a lawyer's fee for the accused? We have a policy on that. Let me read the first part of that regulation, just the purpose. So, the rest of you, the one that came out of there, and we have a commission on the application.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0274par0095	This is the end of our time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0273par0096	By reviewing it, the attorneys of those who have been sued for the mission will be paid by the Ministry as a power of attorney. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0274par0098	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0275par0099	What about corruption, corruption?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0273par0100	He'll give it to the prosecutor with a record of corruption. He's an accomplice who didn't give the prosecutor his certificate of corruption. If he's not an accomplice, he's a mufti. There's no immunity here, there's no immunity here, and there's no immunity here, but I vouch for the period before me, and I'm very clear.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0274par0101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0276par0102	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0277par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0274par0104	Congressmans, this is a question-answer department. Mr. Secretary may not be able to answer all of your questions at this time. He will do it, and will answer you in writing.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0277par0105	I'd just like to say something from my position for a correction on the record, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0274par0106	Tell me.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0277par0107	Because, Minister, I'm not in the habit of interrupting. I know all about NATO. I'm not one of those who claims that I don't know what I don't know. I don't know where, when, or what NATO will build on this. I appreciate the minister's information on this, but that's not the question I was asking. Why today, is it relevant? This is what he was going to explain, number one. I don't claim to know, and I don't answer things I don't know, and I don't ask questions about them. Secondly, I do not find it right to say, "Do not talk about the matter of his judgment," and then to count the articles of which they have been judged over the espionage case in İzmir. He won't talk... then he won't talk at all.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0278par0110	It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0277par0111	Then you will not speak at all, and you will tell those who speak, Mr. Secretary, including the Prime Minister. We're not talking, I just asked the Ministry about the spy case.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0279par0112	Well, Mr. Moroglu, thank you. Mr. Erdoğdu, what do you want?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0280par0114	Mr. President, now, we asked the Minister a question. I don't know if the Minister came back to us -- I don't know if he called us -- but he's a mufter, and he said things that were offensive to us. If you'd like... because I'm offended and offended. I want to talk to you about the bench for two minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0279par0115	No, he didn't say anything about you, so if the allegations are, take them to the prosecutor and give them to him.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0281par0116	We promise no hard feelings, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0280par0117	Mr. President, I apologize...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0281par0118	There are no provisions in the Civil Code for being sensitive, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0280par0119	Mr. President, first let the Minister explain who he meant by this inspector, one. Second of all, we've been asking a very innocent question from the beginning of the negotiations of this law, and we want to know if you've taken the Hücumbot. At what price did you receive the contract? I am the deputy of this nation, and I ask a very clear question, Mr. Secretary does not insist on answering. And that gave us a professional suspicion. It's as simple as that, so no need to slander the mufter, we're just asking.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0282par0121	Mr. Erdoğdu, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0283par0122	Mr. President, we've decided to answer in writing, and he's not content with it. And I'll answer in writing. Oh, and if there's anything else you know, take it to the D.A.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0282par0123	He'll answer in writing, sir. Now...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0284par0125	Mr. President, please, if you could turn on the microphone for two minutes to explain...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0285par0126	Mr. Secretary, who did you say you were talking to?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0282par0127	Mr. Tarhan, I don't understand.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0284par0128	Please turn on my mic...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0282par0129	For what?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0284par0130	Mr. President, there is a need for an explanation. I mean, we've been listening to the Minister for hours, about his recent statements... as Deputy Director of the Group, please turn on my microphone...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0282par0131	Let's open your system, one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0284par0133	Mr. President, I've been listening patiently to the Minister for hours, and I've been really patient. Thank you, thank you, thank you, really. Now, look, a minister who can't even explain whether he deliberately bombed or killed people in Uludere, a minister who can't take care of his own soldiers, his own soldiers, his arrested soldiers, a minister who can't explain to us how 25 poor children died in Afyon, 25 poor children who couldn't explain to us how they died every day, and who didn't say a word to the people's representatives, you can't just point a finger at us and give us a lecture by waving your finger and firing at us without setting your tone. You can't push the boundaries of kindness. I'm sick and tired of teaching you all the time, really, but my patience is at an end. Mr. President, I'm afraid you've caused me to speak like this today, not to warn anyone who's been rude.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0286par0136	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0287par0137	Mr. President, everyone speaks in their own way.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0286par0139	Now, let's move on to voting procedures for the substances in section three. If there are motions on the clauses, I will carry them out and then submit the clauses to your votes. I submit to you the first joke of the 45th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The second joke of the 45th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The frame was the third part of the 45th article (a): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The frame was the third joke of the 45th article (b): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The frame was the third part of the 45th article (c): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The fourth joke of the 45th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The frame was the sixth joke of the 45th article (a): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The frame was the sixth joke of Article 45 (b): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The frame was the sixth joke of the 45th article (c): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions for the same nature of new matter. Now I'm going to read the motions and ask the Commission. If the Commission joins the motion with a majority, I will open a meeting with 14 members as a new clause on the motions. If he doesn't agree, I'll remove the motions from the process. Now I'm going to read two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 45th draft of the current 394 rows of the law. I respectfully request and request that the following joke be added to the article. Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Mahmut Tanal Haluk Ahmet Silver Mustafa Moroğlu Ahmet Toptaş Aydın Aghadın Kemal Ekinci Ali Sarıbaş Rahmi Love's Style (14) 20 of the Supreme Court of Military Government Law No. 1602. The second joke of the article has been changed as follows. The purpose of the implementation of this law is for the military officer, military officer, petty officer, military student, expert police officer, expert chief of staff and privates, who are serving in the Turkish Armed Forces or have left the service. 45 of the current bill. Article 7. We offer and propose that the following joke be added before his joke. (7) 20 of Month Law No. 1602. In the article, the term "erers" has been changed in the form of "erers" and the word "argents" is removed from the text of the substance. Oktay Vural Nevzat Korkmaz Ahmet Duran Bulut Ali Halaman Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the Commission agree with the majority of these two proposals?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0288par0171	We can't agree, Mr. President, because the commission is a mere majority.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0286par0172	Since the commission did not participate in the same proposals with a simple majority, I'm withdrawing the motions from the process. I present to you the 7th joke of the 45th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I present to you the 8th joke of the 45th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to you the vote of the 9th and (a) and (b) of the 45th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The frame was the nineth joke of the 45th article (c): those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The 10th joke of the 45th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The frame was the 11th joke of Article 45 (a): those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The frame was the 11th joke of Article 45 (b): those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The 12th joke of the 45th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The 13th joke of the 45th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion for a new clause. I'll read the motion and ask the Commission. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 45th draft of the current 394 rows of legislation. A new substance to come after the clause, and the following substances are identified according to this, 46. I respectfully submit and offer to add matter. Mustafa Moroğlu Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Ahmet Toptaş Aydın Ayan Ayyadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Omar Suha Aldan Kemal Ekinci Article 46-6191 is temporary 32. By failing to benefit from the regulation under judicial control due to administrative procedures and disciplinary decisions, rights owners of the Turkish Armed Forces will benefit from these provisions, without any conditions, if they are cut off or dead. Does the commission agree with the majority?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0289par0193	No, that's not gonna happen. You'll call the Commission, you'll see it's in order, or is it just a majority of those who aren't members of the Commission?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0290par0194	Well, I'm looking, so if anyone wants to come, go ahead, it's a matter violation.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0291par0195	The mind is one thing, Mr. President. They don't have total numbers.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0289par0196	Are they commissioners?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0290par0197	It's a matter of substance, so if there's a commissioner who wants to come, be my guest.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0292par0198	Mr. Commission...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0289par0199	Well, did you invite him?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0290par0200	There's no such thing as an invitation in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0289par0201	See if there's any.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0293par0202	Mr. Special, you're very welcome. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0294par0204	Mr. President, there aren't as many as the Commission.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0293par0205	Please answer my question.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0295par0206	Mr. President, we can't participate because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0293par0207	Since the commission did not participate in the motion with a simple majority, I'm dismissing the motion. There are three motions on Article 46 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 51, which is added to Article 1111 and to Article 1111 of the 394 Orders of Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bült Turan Recep Special Ramadan Can Özcan Ulupınar After entering the military service under the Code of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers, for any reason, the underprivileged under this Law shall be relieved of Article 46 ▪ of the Interim Articles, provided they carry other conditions at their request and pay back 30,000 Turkish liras in a month's time when this law is in effect. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to Article 46 of the box of the 394 Numbered Bill of Law. Your 1111 law is temporary 43. The article has been changed to 10,000 euros, or 5,000 euros, in return. Scholar Light Oktay Vural Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 46th draft of the current 394th row. With all due respect, I'd like to offer and supply to change the clause in the following way. Melda Onur Haluk Ahmet Silver Rahmi - The Kind of Love Mustafa Moroğlu Ali Sarıbaş Kemal Ekinci Aydın Agha Ayyadın Ahmet Toptaş Mahmut Tanal Article 46-21/06/1927 added the following temporary clause to the Military Code No. 1111. The Interim Article 51- Regardless of the date when this law is in effect, it has not yet begun its actual military service, as of December 31st 2012 (including this date), and has taken days from the age of 28, and has completed military services on condition that the Reserve Officers 1076 and those who are subject to Code 1111 and are subject to Military Law 1111, if they want to, willfully apply to military branches within six months of the day when this law is in force, and pay basic military training in the event of paying the 21,000 Turkish lira. Those who apply can pay the estimated amount on a fixed basis during the application, as well as in three equal installments starting in 18 months from the date of the application. Compulsors with less than 12,000 Turkish liras (including 12,000 Turkish liras) or without any income are considered to have served military service within the framework of the foundations above, without paying any price. As part of this application, the funds will be deposited into a private account for the Ministry of Youth and Sports at T.C. Agriculture Bank. The funds collected in the private account are used to finance dorms under the procedures and foundations set by the Council of Ministers (YURTKUR). Citizens who have applied to military service under Article 30/11/2011 and under Act 6252 but have not paid the estimated amount but have delayed the amount of installments are also entitled to the provisions of the Law if they demand it. As part of Law 6252, the price they pay is kept from the estimated amount in this Law. Compulsors who give up paying, who fail to meet payment obligations on time, and who have been determined to make a false statement, complete their remaining military term as a private or private member of the Turkish Armed Forces. There are no administrative and judicial investigations and prosecutions due to the absence of roll call and the balance on those responsible for these provisions of the Law, and those who have been initiated will be terminated. The payment and procedure bases of the price are organised by the Council of Ministers' decision on information and documents to be requested in statements and other matters related to implementation. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0296par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0293par0243	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0297par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0293par0245	Mr. Onur, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0298par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, the item we're discussing is opening a field in favour of military service in terms of priced military conditions. The relevant motion envisions an arrangement, both age-wise and income-wise, as well as the removal of the losses related to payments. Such a motion should not be rejected under normal circumstances, at least it should be discussed, but we know that the Commission will not participate, the government will not participate, the proceedings will not remain in the law. In normal circumstances, we said, because there are extraordinary conditions in Turkey right now, and unfortunately, we're facing anomalies in all areas. This military business, the cases have been repeated here over and over again, and I don't want to do a new one here anymore. I just want to say that human rights aren't just civil rights. The civil, military, security personnel we call human rights include everyone. Everyone has the right to a fair trial, and that is the basic human right to citizenship. Even if he's charged with a coup, he's entitled to a fair trial. I think the Prime Minister finally came to that point, but what happened in the process? In fact, there's nothing to tell here. Dear friends, I am the child of an army member, and I can tell you for hours about the sufferings of the families of Vardiya Azim, whose rights have been rejected only because he is a soldier, but I want to tell you about a different kind of testimony. Mr. Secretary just said, "Don't interfere in the judicial process, don't talk about ongoing cases." But I'd like to say something about an acquitted case here. You know, it's often mentioned that there's a military espionage case, and there's also the extent of prostitution. The trial of military espionage, prostitution, and blackmail began. Thanks to our friends, dear Veli Ağbaba, Free Special and Nurettin Abi, they are very interested in you, God bless you. I thank you, as a child of an army member, for not leaving these families alone. We went to visit together in Hasdal. He invited a naval officer to his trial later. An environment in the falls, a case. Think of a place where young naval officers and young girls from the Naval Academy. I've watched all these cases, and I've never seen a case so painful. Sir, a catalog of female students at the Naval Academy has been seized in the prostitution ring operation. These girls -- I don't want to testify here -- they're chosen to use your imagination, sir. The young naval officer girls came there, one by one, with very heavy, very embarrassing questions, up to their underwear. This one girl came in with her paper on her face, she didn't want to look. Other than that, there were female officers -- you can imagine what he was accused of -- one of them, one of the girls, brought a report to document that he didn't participate in prostitution -- and I'm leaving what report to your imagination again -- and then what happened? In these hearings, prostitution was not proven and was acquitted. It's been a while, and look what happened. In one room, police are listening, listening to various cases; some of them are listening to officers; others are listening to a gang of prostitutes; they are also called Vika. When it comes to Vika, it's written on the officers' wiretaps, and then it's said to have been written on the couch. Police, we did this, I did it, I did it, I didn't mean it; he's going to be tried, he's going to be punished. I'm going to ask him: Yes, whoever did this may be punished, but Mr. Secretary, who has the plague of young children, young women officers, who are called prostitution there? I'd like to know how you, as Secretary of State of Defense, consider this to be your responsibility from your student to his retirement. I really need these embarrassing cases to be over as soon as possible. I hate to bother you with this, but I'm afraid that's just the way it is. Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0299par0254	Thank you, Mr. Onur. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The box of the 394 Numbered Bill is 46. We provide and propose to add the following sentence to the clause. Law #1111 is temporary 43. The article has been changed to 10,000 euros, or 5,000 euros, in return. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0300par0262	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0299par0263	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0301par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0302par0265	Dear scholar Light, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0299par0266	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0303par0267	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we've submitted on the 46th amendment to the underprivileged law of 394 rows. On this occasion, I salute you once again. As it is known, many of our citizens have been given a right to military military service with Law 6252, issued on November 30, 2011, in an arrangement that lifts military basic training, particularly aimed at meeting the demands of conscientious objectors. Part of them were related to foreign foreign military currency service for our citizens. They've had 15 or 20 days of basic training removed, but in return for what? In exchange for 10,000 euros. Earlier it was 5,000 euros, 5,000 euros were raised to 10,000 euros, but due to the crises in Europe and the height of this figure, the expected applications were not achieved. For him, this clause, including regulations for discipline, has been relocated into the law, and those who have not applied here for any reason until June 15, 2012, but who are now aware of the conditions set in the law, will be able to take advantage of 10,000 euros, if they are to benefit from military service, within a month of the law. We say if they had already paid 10,000 euros, these people would have applied for it by now. Since no application has been made, come, let's reduce it to 5,000 euros as it used to be, and let's save our people from suffering in other countries where they work under difficult conditions. Many of them are now faced with warnings of separation from Turkish citizenship due to dual citizenship. If you can't pay, you don't do your military service, if you give up your Turkish citizenship, you get rid of it. They deal with different solutions like this. So we think this motion is a valid motion. At this time of night, he says we should all sign an arrangement that will please our citizens, and I salute you once again with the wishes of our motion.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0304par0271	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 51, which is added to Article 1111 and to Article 1111 of the 394 Orders of Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends After entering the military service under the Code of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers, for any reason, the underprivileged under this Law shall be relieved of Article 46 ▪ of the Interim Articles, provided they carry other conditions at their request and pay back 30,000 Turkish liras in a month's time when this law is in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0305par0279	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0304par0280	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0306par0281	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0304par0282	I'm reading the reason: After completing military service under the Code of Reserve Officers and Reserve Officers 1076 with the motion, for any reason, they have been removed from the scope of this law and decided to transfer them to complete the term of military service, temporary 46. They are intended to receive the benefit of paying military service, provided they carry the conditions specified in the article.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0307par0285	Mr. Secretary, how many people are there? Do you have any statistics on the scope, anyone who might be involved?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0308par0286	56 people...
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0304par0287	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a new substance incursion. There's a motion that I'm going to read and ask the Commission: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 46th draft of the 394th row of the current law. With all due respect, I would like to propose and submit a new substance to come after the clause, and to be identified according to the following articles, adding temporary material to the 1111th Military Law. Mustafa Moroğlu Ali Sarıbaş Ahmet Toptaş == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Mahmut Tanal Aydın Ayan Ayyadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Article 47 (27/21/6/1927) added the following temporary clause to the Military Law No. 1111. (Temporary Article 52-11 of the Military Law 35. The article "C" was changed to "32" in the "C" joke. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0309par0304	We don't have a majority, we can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0304par0305	Since the commission failed to participate in the motion with a majority, I'm dismissing the motion. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 48 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 49, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 49th draft of the current 394 rows of legislation. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Free Special Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Haydar Akar Mustafa Moroğlu Akyan Erdemir Aykut Erdoğdu Article 49: The basic and methodical and disciplinary procedures for disciplinary investigation and the methods for the execution and the fundamentals for the implementation of this law are regulated by regulations issued by the Ministry of National Defence and Interior. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0310par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0311par0318	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0304par0319	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Danishoglu... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0312par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised Article 49 of the Military Forces Disciplinary Act 394. However, we did provide a provision for Article 45, which was not accepted. I'd like to make a few points on that, too. I salute you all. I'm afraid I'll have to talk about the deaths of workers again before I get into the matter of the law. I wish our workers, who lost their lives trying to earn their lives in the explosion at the Gaziantep factory, my condolences to their relatives, and I hope the wounded will recover as soon as possible. The working conditions in our country, the lack of control, the subcontractor system, are causing us to face more than 11,000 death certificates in ten years. We know that in democracies, these irresponsibility and irresponsibility cannot be allowed, but this neglect that has cost people their lives is leading to the record of our country's death. Dear MPs, the Constitutional Court has removed civil officers from the definition of military persons and has agreed to be tried in civil courts instead of military courts, on September 20th, 2012 and 125th. The law we are negotiating envisions the implementation of Law 657, not military disciplinary laws for civilians serving in the armed forces, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights decisions. The Article 145 of the Constitution is already under constitutional guarantee that non-military persons cannot be tried in military courts except in the state of war. However, civil servants working in the armed forces will object to the sentences provided by the Supreme Court of Military Government. Article 20 of the Supreme Court of Military Government Law 1602 includes civil servants in the definition of soldiers. The Association of Civilian Officers and Retirements states that the ratio of civil servants to win cases in this administrative court is significant. The removal of civilian personnel under the law from the definition of a military person is necessary in terms of paralleling the working conditions with other civil servants as well as civil justice for civilian personnel. If we are to replace government-oriented approaches with human-focused approaches, civil servants serving in the armed forces must be moved out of the practice area of military courts. Another thing I want to talk to you about is military suicides when a bill of the armed forces is being discussed. The Military Rights Initiative says that one soldier commits suicide every three days in military barracks and that military suicides are 2.5 times greater than civilian suicides. This is unacceptable. Furthermore, the national defence minister's motion for a question regarding military suicides has reached the age of suicide in the military. The Turkish Armed Forces have no responsibility for the suicides. It is equally unacceptable for them to answer in the form of the suicides. A sign that our country is an egalitarian and liberal civil democracy based on universal values, fundamental rights and freedoms, and a powerful state of law will be found and punished for all deaths. These are deaths of civil and political violence, from the deaths of soldiers to the Uludere, from the Uludere, to the Afyon, from the deaths of workers, to natural gas disasters, from the killings of women. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0313par0333	Thank you, Mr. Danishoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 49 to your votes... those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 3, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 4, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the temporary item five, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Interim 5/394 bill be removed from the text of the article. İdris Bauken Iron Steel Fair Wolf Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0314par0348	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0313par0349	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0315par0350	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-30sit05spe0313par0351	Motive... In the proposed joke on the amendment motion to be lifted, disciplinary sentences for soldiers are linked to sanctions that are not considered a term of military service; this sentence does not comply with the general rules of law and the rights of persons. So, despite the fact that the person will be included in the institution during the period of his sentence and will be included in the necessary situations, not being included in the service period will result in the birth of the victims. With this amendment motion, possible victims were intended to be prevented, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim item 5: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 50 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 51 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the third section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been adopted and legalized. On Thursday (January 31st 2013), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
