tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Reşat Amazak, who asked for a statement about measures to be taken in schools against increased substance and drug addiction. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise in schools regarding substance abuse and measures that need to be taken. I salute the High Council. Matter use and addiction are the most important problem in the world, as our country has in the coming years. Especially in our schools, the situation has reached a frightening extent. As young people begin to use matter, the group of family, social environment and friends is at the top of the basic risk and protection factors. In order to protect society from substance abuse, preventive work must be started at an early age. What addiction is, how much damage these substances can do to human health, individual and social life must first be explained by parents and must be applied in family life. For reasons such as economic difficulties, migrations, and educational problems, families today do not care enough or provide insufficient education for their children. For reasons such as inadequacies in the number of schools and teachers, expert deficits in substance abuse, and lack of curriculums, there are unfortunately not enough preventive studies in their schools. Although the child does not face such substances within the family, he is able to meet and use them in the social environment they live in. Many studies suggest that young people receive early information and use of these substances from their friends around them. Hence, the awareness of families, strengthening active roles in parenting and family relations is the basis for family-axis work. Congressmans, I'd like to give you a statistic information to get the public's attention. The Police Department has conducted a drug-addicted study in schools. Therefore, I would especially like to express my sincere thanks to the police's organization, the president and all of its officials who work at TÜBIM, because right now the TÜBÜBÜM is struggling very seriously on behalf of the public about the use of drugs. According to the survey, the proportion of drug use is 1.5 per cent in the younger population and 2.7% in the general population. That's a very important ratio. In addition, the survey found by the Science Council is: 48.2% of students have a family that uses tobacco. 26.7% of students have tried cigarettes, cigars, bongs, and other tobacco products. The first time students meet tobacco products is around 14 years old. 19.9% of the girls and 33.2% of the boys said they tried tobacco and products. Fifteen.2% of students have alcohol abuse in their families. 19.4% of them have said they've tried alcoholic beverages. In addition, 14.1% of the girls and 22.6% of the men have said they have tried alcohol. When the 32-nation survey is compared to the results of the ESPAD in Europe, the European School Project on Alcohol and Other Drugs, it is slightly low in Turkey. However, it is a matter of great importance. In Europe, 17 percent of students have been exposed to cannabis and 6% to illicit drugs. As a result, the Ministry of National Education has a very important task in substance abuse. However, it is interesting that as of 2004, the Ministry of National Education does not allow the implementation of the ESPAD Project. I'd like to address the newly appointed Minister of National Education here: drug use and substance abuse are the most important subject of the society. Therefore, the ESPAD project must be answered and must be allowed to investigate. After that, along with the consequences, the struggle can continue as well as the outcomes. We have to do what the world does in the struggle. In terms of substance abuse, I would like to make the following suggestions: In dealing with substance abuse, scientific information should be based on, evidence-based policies should be created. A common language should be created in the fight against substance abuse, a community, family and school-based prevention activities. Children need to be co-ordinated and strengthened among drug-related institutions. The laws on substance use must be passed immediately. Look, research commissions have been established in previous time periods, and the decisions made by those commissions are still not being implemented. At this point, an independent special council of the Prime Minister should be formed, so it should not be left to the TÜBIM. In addition, the PKK is responsible for the terrorist organization's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is a new source of drug trafficking. I salute the High Assembly, he says, should be fought this way too.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Right. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Halil Mazicioğlu, a member of the Gaziantep MP who asked to be given the title. Here you go, Mr. Mazicioğlu.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers -- the eleven months of Isabelle's defense, under the most difficult and difficult conditions -- is the best response the people of this city has ever given to those who wish to erase the independence of the Turkish nation from the history scene. In the golden pages of history, the Antwerp defense is an epic myth of what it can do, even in every possible way, against the independence of this small-large, man-woman, nation, and the enemy who is far more powerful than its own for its country. The Antwerp defence, which is of particular importance in terms of sparks for both Kuvayimilli and their existence in our national struggle, is a cry that the Turkish nation cannot be put on the neck of a chain of bondage. In the period of the occupation, when different alternatives were voiced by different groups against the occupation, the Antapes went after the Great Leader, who was on his way with the password "Istolation or death!" My fellow lawmakers, at this very moment, the Gaziantepians, without any help or help, have become the monuments of heroism, bravery and courage at the expense of the Hawkmen, Blackeyes, and many anonymous heroes, at the cost of giving them 6,317 martyrs and thousands of veterans. Our city's eighty-seven-year-long claim medal, titled "Gazilik," ended on 7 February 2008 with the law issued by our Grand Assembly, and was crowned with the title of our current Speaker of Congress, Mr. Rootal Toptan, with the presence of our President on June 6, 2008. As it is known, when the First World War ended, the nations of confiscation carried out their plans for the invasion of the Mondros Truce Agreement, which envisioned the break-up of the Ottomans. The Ottoman state, which had no choice but to sign this agreement, had to surrender its weapons and disband its armies according to the agreement. Mr. President, in these conditions where we have no land but Anatolia, the most critical part of the agreement is the ability to occupy any strategic location in the event there is a threat to the security of the countries. In Central Anatolia they occupied every corner of Anatolia, except a few of our provinces. Sadly, on the distant fronts of World War I, the long - tired and worn-out Anatolian had no strength to resist. The Turkish nation, whose independence has exceeded all values throughout history, has shown the world that even within this painting, it will not give in to occupation. The torch burned by our great leader, the founder of our Republic, was a hope for the Turkish nation in these dark days when each city, each town, had its own destiny. For this reason, I do not kiss the eyes of the Gaziantepians of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our Republic, who saved Turkey just as they saved Antwerp. For this reason, the Antwerp defense also has a separate place for our Salvation War. As a result, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which was removed from the Turkish nation's bosom, titled Antwerpe,,,,, on February 8, 1921. This meaningful gift, which has haunted the souls of his heroes, has made all our fellow citizens proud as an immortal symbol that will carry the bravery and courage of the Gazianteps, who have long longed for their medal. I hereby offer you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0005par0034	Thank you, Mr. Mazicioğlu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about foreign trade developments. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0006par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised off-the-tops on foreign trade developments. I salute the grand jury. With AKP coming to power after 2003, the current has increased and continued to watch high during the decline of the growth rate. This new situation has become the new normal of the AKP. Turkish lira was valued when the financing of the cari transaction deficit began to be met with short-term capital entry. This has made imports more attractive, increasing the deficit of foreign trade and current transactions. In 2012, a significant part of the increase in exports stems from gold exports. There's a recession on gold exports in the government. The words of Ali Babacan and Zafer Çağlan are inconsistencies, and they play from different tunes. So is the opinion of the president of the Central Bank, one who loves and teaches the other officer his place. Cari is financed by the debt of the private sector. The private sector's debt has risen from $40 billion to $200 billion. During the AKP's rule, the external trade deficit rose to $600 billion and the current accountability deficit rose to $350 billion. The country's external debt rose from 220 billion dollars to 620 billion dollars. Energy in imports has been concentrated in some countries, like addiction in natural gas. Both foreign policies don't fit, and you're an addict, like our relations with the Russian Federation, Iran and Iraq. The total of exports during AKP power is $1 trillion, the total of imports is $1.6 trillion, the foreign trade deficit is $600 billion, almost equivalent to Turkey's one-year gross. One of the best export sectors is called automotive. We call exports $15 billion, imports $14.5 billion. Now, there's also been an incident called the economy of Eastern Turkey: illegal electricity, communication, finance, raw materials supply, irrigation, off-the-book supply, oil, tea, cigarettes, fuel, sugar. In the east, in the southeast, the PKK has begun to set customs tariffs, which are said to already be on the negotiating tables. Turkey's economy is funded for 60 billion dollars in 11 months, the same number in 2011 and 2012, and 8.5 per cent in one, 2.5 per cent in the other. You don't need a fatwa to assess it, you don't need a mosque imam's opinion. It's been a fashion for the government lately to evaluate foreign sources. So, according to OECD, the contribution of domestic production is 41.5 per cent export, less than 50 per cent local entry, 32 per cent in textiles, 31% in electricity, 35 per cent in transportation vehicles, 49 per cent in construction. Based on imports in November, those who said the domestic demand was starting to come alive were skeptical by the results of the December period. The domestic demand shows no recovery from imports. Now, they're going to renew the account of imports and exports and try to fix it. What will happen if the number changes without any real change? Exporters don't think credit growth is enough, they're upset. It's a conjonk with high risk recovery, low growth. After the Cold War, for the first time, there's no financing problem, the economy is losing power. This government follows foreign trade through the rearview mirror. There's a gold and jewelry fair, the head of the Jewel Exporters Association begs, the government doesn't solve their problem. We'll miss the presidency. The government is running away from solving their problem, and it's gone. For the first time in the world, lawmakers have been seen in Turkey during AKP power, where the hay has been imported with ceremony and delivered to the farmer with general managers and ceremonies. I believe the office of the general manager who organized this was the office of the highest-paid bureaucrat, who had been interviewed here before. The government has mixed up the stalk with the hay in foreign trade, as in business. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0006par0054	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0007par0055	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, regarding the Gaziantep, if you enter, I will make you a minute's promise. And according to the 60th article, I will promise the first ten, and I will begin with them. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. The bridge over Alaşehir Tea, between Beylikli and Yeşilova villages of Salihli district of Manisa Province, was destroyed on 29 January 2013 due to heavy rains. Due to the collapse of the bridge, the villages were cut off from their fields, vineyards, and gardens. The drinking water line of the village of Greenova has been damaged. It's impossible to repair the bridge that collapsed. A new bridge must be built, but it will take time. Authorities also point to May, June. It is imperative that there be a temporary solution to ensure passage until the bridge is built -- such as building a drawbridge. I demand that the necessary work be completed immediately by the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0009par0063	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0010par0065	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, recently, the privatisation agenda is the capital gas, bridge, highway tender. They've also been auctioned off. However, the heads of the privatisation that these are being given cheaply, the general managers say, they're sold for nothing. And the Minister of Finance says, "No, we sold them expensively." I say, "For 50 years, people have treasured their savings in the public name." With these privatisations, I would like to submit to the attention of the Parliament and the Turkish public that 40 unfinished orphans should not be defeated because of political preferences. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0011par0068	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0012par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Last Sunday and Monday, a major symposium in sugar beets production and the future of sugar has been organized at the CECER-HIS Union. Very important work has been expressed at this symposium. As expressed in the symposium, sugar beets and production are the most important resource in our country. Sugar beets should be supported. Also, studies are required at the point where sugar factories are not privatised. It has now been stated that it has been stopped, but it has not been completely removed from privatisation. Of course, sugar factories must be supported in an environment where sugar is switched to sugar all over the world and given up artificial sugar, and sugar production should be supported in real sense. At the point of the privatisation of the sugar factories, I'd like to say we're expecting support from the House, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0013par0073	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0014par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, the Iraqi Turkmen have become the target of bomb attacks. In the last 15 days, many Turks have been killed by bombings in Tuzhurmatu and Kerkuk cities. The number of Turks who died in the civil war in Syria is close to 5,000. Turkey had a Turkmen and Kerkuk policy before the AKP, and now it's gone. The Iraqi and Syrian Turkmen are unclaimed. Meanwhile, Israel bombed a facility near Damascus. Russia, Iran, China, Egypt, Lebanon, Hezbollah condemned the attack with harsh statements, and the Arab Union called it a low attack. Turkey remained silent for three days. Then Minister Davutoglu blamed Syria, saying, "Why do Israeli planes fly above Assad's palace and not even throw a pebble while playing with his country's honour?" Assad is not the one who was shot, but Syria. Israel is bombing the Ottoman footprints in Syria. Davutoglu encourages Israel with his unresponsive, numb, and colourless attitude. Whether Assad stays or goes, he's in the area...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0015par0079	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0016par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. In Artvin, there is a high-profile nationalisation fair due to many Valley projects. I'm glad the Minister is here. The Law on Publicisation -- as I've already told the Minister -- is a very intense victimization of a sentence, facing citizens and states in executive offices. The sentence on the registration of the state, the sentence on the probation given by the lower court, there is a problem in the final but cost-related verdict. If the lower court doesn't like the decision that the citizen has made, appeals, the Supreme Court breaks its decision, comes back to the lower court, the price is facing the citizens because of the awareness, the state is putting the citizens to work, Mr. Secretary, you know what's going on. I have an offer on the law, but I would like to ask that the general administration and your Ministry, in the matter of putting this matter into practice, proceed immediately. Let's get rid of that problem and not bring the government versus the citizen. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0017par0084	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0018par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. The judge and prosecutor's salaries have not been improved for more than five years, and according to the 2006 index, their salaries have been reduced by 35 per cent in real terms as of 2012. Again, it has been said that during the days of the MIT Undersecretary's call to the statement, the amendment to improvement was on Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's desk, but the Prime Minister was angry with the call to testify. In difficult circumstances, we ask the government to improve their wages as soon as possible so that the judges and prosecutors who serve as noble and as selflessly as they do not get caught between their wallets and their consciences. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0019par0089	Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0020par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. In the investigation into the attack on the U.S. consulate, we've learned from news in the media media today that FBI agents can gather evidence by the permission of the prosecution in Turkey, that they can conduct a judicial investigation, and that they're allowed to do so. One of the most important indicators of a country's independence and sovereignty is its ability to judge within its borders. No sovereign and independent country can share its authority with another country or its representative, and it will not give up its authority. Sharing this authority means sharing the sovereignty rights. The continuation of the government's authority to the American authorities in the preparation investigation would mean the establishment of American courts in Turkey and the trial of our citizens there. I urge the government to return this decision immediately, and I complain to the Turkish Grand National Assembly and to our citizens.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0019par0093	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0021par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz, on January 26, 2013, has reported that the ten-year-old electricity meter will be changed for free, but SeDAŞ, who is responsible for Sakarya, Bolu, Düzce provinces, has changed the cost to 383,583 hours so far, without asking anyone for the consumer's request, without asking. About 15 million Turkish liras. Despite having expressed this reckless attitude before on the floor of the House, SEDAS continues to have this authority. Please, I want the ministries to be sensitive about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0022par0098	Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0023par0100	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, February 4th World Cancer Day. In our country, 175,000 people are diagnosed with cancer every year. When diagnosed in time and treated properly, cancer is not a deadly disease. Also, I'd like to add that in the past few days, the Mayor of Kıralan, Denizli Çirril district, has launched an attack on the family physician. I strongly condemn this mayor's attack. He's inviting these people to witness and kill, and I want them to know that we're going to pursue these attacks. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0024par0103	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0025par0105	In Malatya, the country of Turgut Ozal, which marked Turkey's multi-party life and my greatest defeat in 1950 as a democracy victory, Turgut Inönu and his country of the 1980s, Malatya, which marked its defeat as a victory of democracy, were the vice president and former leader of the state of Turkey. A year ago, the same person wanted to become a king for the Prime Minister. He told me to. This mentality is a fascist mentality. This mentality is a mindset against democracy, against national will. As a Malatya MP, I would like to point out that I am ashamed and condemning this matter, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0024par0106	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0026par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, are celebrating the title of Gaziantep, on behalf of all our executives, especially Mr. President. Antep's defense is the beginning of our national struggle, a very important defense. More than 6 grand of Antwerpes have been killed here. I wish all our martyrs the grace of the Almighty God, I congratulate the Antepians, and I see it as a very right to be given the title of "Ghazillik" to Antwerp, and I wish to God that he would never again give those days of occupation.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0027par0112	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0028par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute all Gaziantep as the Republican People's Party Group because of the anniversary of being named Gaziantep, and honor the years of our Liberation War in Gaziantep, our fallen soldiers in those years. Şırnak MP of the Peace and Democracy Party -- who is still under arrest in Diyarbakır Prison -- has passed away the father of Mr Selma Irmak. Mr. Selma River, his family, his relatives, the Peace and Democracy Party Group, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on this occasion, my condolences and patience. I ask God's mercy on the deceased. And I would also like to add that I would like to submit to the attention of the General Assembly to the creation of a political climate that will make possible the days when our eight arrested MPs will serve in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0029par0119	Mr. Yellow...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0030par0121	Mr. President, thank you. We are all celebrating the 92nd anniversary of giving our province the title of Gariantep by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And we're very excited about it. We have full faith that the Gazianteps will carry the flag first in the development and development race, with an understanding of the 21st century, as it has been so far, in order to bring our province and our country to a better time. I'd like to stress that we are all working together with the spirit that gave us the title of freedom and independence of this land and the honor of our fellow veterans, who have always been our proudest and heroics, to own our republic and to carry out the responsibility to take care of it and to bring our country to better tomorrows. With these ideas, Turkey celebrates the 92nd anniversary of its award to our city with the title of the Grand National Assembly, which brings greetings and greetings to all our citizens...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0031par0125	We're going on the agenda...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0032par0126	Mr. President, you didn't promise me anything.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0031par0127	Mr. Hamzacebi has spoken. You didn't enter, Mr. Serindağ. You didn't enter once.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0033par0129	Gaziantep MP, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0031par0130	I see, I'm not giving it to the Gaziantep MPs, Reverend. Now, Mr. Canikli has handed it over to Mr. Yellow. Come on, I'll give it to Mr. Serindağ, but it's not in the system, it's not in the system. So, since I'm not an expert... Mr. Serindağ, enter the system, I'll give it to you. It's not gonna be good if it's marked.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0034par0134	Mr. President, it's not Antwerp, it's Gaziantep.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0031par0135	Now, if we start this... Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0035par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Gaziantep defense is one of history's exemplary defenses. You know, one of the most important fronts in World War I was the South Front. It is the Gaziantep defense that makes the Southern Front very important. Gaziantep was first occupied by the British, and then after the British made a deal with the French, the French wanted to enter Gaziantep. They had entered the Church before, and then sought to take over Gaziantep. Gaziantep has resisted for 11 months, has given thousands of martyrs, and Gaziantep's defense has been one of the turning points of the national Liberation War. The National Liberation War is so...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0031par0140	Yeah, we're moving on. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the opening of "Meclis investigation" in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Subsection of the Constitution in order to assess and determine policy and measures aimed at resolving the problems and risks in the Turkish Straits, due to massive tonajlı and dangerous cargo crossings in Istanbul and Çanakkale. 1) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Paddles]] [[Scholarship]] [[Lug]] [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] 21) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] The Bosphorus is unique and unique in its historical and cultural heritage, between 264 straits open to sea traffic around the world. In addition to international traffic in the Istanbul Strait, ferrymen, city lines ships, sea buses, passenger boats on regular flights, tankers supply fuel, oil and water to ships, cruise boats, fishing boats, agency engines, public boats, tugboats, civil society organisations boats, boats that run underwater and serveys, and so on. In addition, an uninterrupted railway line is created between the Marmaray Ray Tube Pass project, which is still under construction, and the Anatolian and European coast. The Chanakkale Strait, connecting the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara, connects the Bosphorus to the Sea of Marmara and the Aegean Sea, appears to be a unique natural treasure with settlements on both sides of the straits, and our most important symbols in our country's international recognition and promotion. The Bosphorus is the narrowest and most risky waterway in the world, where 2-2.5 million people are carried daily, with an average of 2,500-3000 local sea traffic on both sides. Also in 2011, 136 ships are passing from the average Istanbul Bosphorus, about 25 mountains of dangerous cargo, and 125 from the Çanakkale Straits, which are concentrated in certain parts of both throats, have significantly affected the navigational safety and sea safety. There has never been an incident in the straits that have always maintained its importance since the past ages that could be considered a security threat after World War II. In particular, however, in the last 50 years, there has been major damage to the environmental disasters caused by the accidents of ships that have passed through the throats and carrying fuel. In previous years, dangerous cargo ships were around 10%, while by the end of 2009, they increased to 18%. By the end of 2011, the amount of oil and oil products carried from the Straits of Istanbul was 65 million tonnes a year, while the amount reached 138,500,000 tonnes. A major accident due to high tanker traffic should not be forgotten that the dangers that will lead to the historical and natural environment of the Turkish straits will not be lighter than the possible damage caused by an Istanbul earthquake at times. It is important to prevent possible acts of terrorism in Turkish throats and to have a multi-directional plan, such as security, navigation, international relations, that cannot be assessed separately. Turkish throats, therefore, are a multidimensional issue of duty and responsibility for numerous institutions and organisations, and are too important to deny co-ordination and co-operation between institutions concerning the determination and implementation of measures to take. For these reasons, it is an indispensable necessity for our country's interests to be identified by the study of the problems and risks in Turkish throats and to determine policy and measures for its resolution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the problems with the production of animal food in Turkey, the Constitution is 98. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Kütahya]] [[Kayseri]] 6) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] 10) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] 11) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tripoli]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] 18) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Slap]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 22) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] Increased bait prices, depending on raw materials prices, put both industry and animal breeders in a difficult position. False agricultural policies in the production of bait have reduced animalism and have reduced the presence of large and small animals in our country. The feed has averaged 70 percent of the inputs in animal breeding. According to data from the Association of Turkey's Bait Industrialists, 465 factories produce 11.5 million tonnes of mixed feed annually in our country. Mixed foods are mainly produced from dandruff and sacres of grain and fatty seeds. In our country, there is instability in bait prices due to the lack of fat seed plants and grain production and the rise in prices. Raw materials increases and the inadequacies in production are constantly reflected in bait prices at the same rate. Oily seeds, such as corn, dandruff, and grains used as raw materials, are being produced under the demand of bait industry in our country. This is moving towards imports in the sector. The high customs tax on importing the bait's raw materials is directly reflected in the price of bait and has a negative effect on animal breeding. In 2010, 434,520 tonnes of corn, 2,500 tonnes of barley, 50,771 tonnes of fish, 406,342 tons of dandruff, 408,369 tons of soybean fertilizer, 479,889 tons of sunflower fertilizer and 1,756,064 tons of soybeans were imported. Our country has become completely dependent on vitamins and minarets used as additives for many baits. In 2011, prices rose to 80 per cent of the bait raw materials, particularly milling and oil industry products, such as dandruff and change, compared to 2010. In 2011, meat-based chicken feed was 13%, egg chicken feed was 17%, dairy feed was 36%, feed was 35 percent, barley was 39 percent. In addition, wheat dandruff increased by 80 percent, corn by 22 percent, sunflower by 52 percent (28p) and sunflower by 20 per cent (36p) and full Fat by 24 per cent and soy by 13 per cent. These increases have been reflected in bait prices and have increased their prices. The grower is unable to take bait against rising bait prices. We can't solve the problem of animalism without resolving their problems with food production. Therefore, the Constitution of the 98th Amendment on the issue of animal food production is to investigate the problems in our country and to take the necessary measures. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the causes and consequences of the problems involved in the tourism sector, the 98th, T. B. M. M. In accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, we respectfully submit the opening of "Meclis Research." [[Antalya]] 2) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 4) Fatma Nur Serker [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 7) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 14) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] 15) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] Turkey has a long history of tourism and cultural values and wealth that many countries will envy. Spain, one of our competitors, has 1,200km of shoreline, while Antalya's shoreband alone is 600km. Within the framework of a "cash plan," the region's differences need to be addressed in a holistic approach. It is essential to promote a country that is not known in foreign countries, where our natural, historical, cultural riches are prominent and can be enjoyed every season of the year. This year, 31 million tourists came to our country and left us 20 billion dollars, about 40 percent of which came from Antalya. Although it has contributed so much to the country's economy, the tourism sector and the city of Antalya are unable to see the value it deserves. Troubles in the sector have grown in the AKP's power, and the tourist is unable to achieve "grain" despite all the revenues and tourists that have come to our country. In our country, it is imperative that the effort to spread tourism to twelve months be improved. In this context, bow, health, golf, spa and old tourism must be supported. Besides, the "all-inclusive" system must be revised by reviewing it. Indoor hotels must be renovated with long-term loans supported by the Ministry by making it a "butik hotel." What's important is the need to improve quality in tourism. Our provinces, such as Antalya and Mugla, should be a brand of tourism. The only reason you can't make a brand is because of AKP power. Because of high taxes, facilities have been forced to employ cheap employees who are not qualified, and people have been encouraged to produce high OTVs on alcoholic beverages, and to use inferior products because of price increases in food products, and in short, facilities have been forced to reduce costs. As a result, killings like the one in Bodrum have come to light, which, God willing, will bring the end of Turkish tourism by repeating these events several times. In this sense, Turkish tourism's S. Him. S. It's obvious he gave it to me. The AKP government must immediately reduce high taxes in the alcohol market to a reasonable level, increase control of illegal alcohol and counterfeiting, and encourage tourism in food products, leaving ideological conservativeism aside. With these, the situation of about 200,000 employees who work in hotels that close in winter must be dealt with, and studies must be organised. The problem of illegal labor must be resolved. Tourism's professional laws must be issued at once with the regulations the industry requires. Problems such as infrastructure, decontamination, garbage disposal, electricity and transport should be tried to find solutions by cooperating with local governments. According to studies, 522 hotels across the country are on sale at the end of the 2011 summer season. More than 230 of these hotels are located in Antalya and the counties. Between hotels for sale, the price range range range ranges from $250,000 to 140 million dollars. If tourism is a truly lucrative and attractive profession, why do so many owners put their hotels up for sale? We'll have to think about that first. Expectations fall every year. Every year, he searches the year before for snow. As of right now, the tourist's income is in the balance. No one should be fooled by the number of tourists and the turnout. Now the knife's up to the bone. As a government, a solution must be found immediately, and tourism must be restored to an attractive profession with incentives. Recently, hotel copyright payment for televisions in their rooms has been the final straw. In short, the tourist is miserable. For the reasons mentioned above, it would be appropriate to investigate the reasons and consequences of the problems of the tourism sector and open a Parliamentary Research to determine the measures to be taken by our Supreme Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the part of the Commission's Other Affairs with Law and Proposals. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the draft bill on the financing of terrorism and the internal commission and the justice commission reports in the third place. The commission is here, the government is here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 409 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0036par0360	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Law Bill on the Financing of Terrorism. I salute you all. (x) 409 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. My dear friends, why did this bill come? Turkey has long been warned by an international organisation called the Financial Action Task Force because it has not made legal arrangements in accordance with international standards for financing terrorism. In his latest statement, he warned that if these arrangements were not made, he would be terminated in February 2013. As we all know, this is the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, an organization that sets international standards for laundering money and financing terrorism. What does this FATF want from Turkey? The FATF (FATF) demands from Turkey on the fight against the financing of terrorism are the following: The fact that the financing of terrorism is a crime. It's not just the financing of acts of terror, but the financing of terrorist organizations as well. The implementation of financial sanctions in line with the UN Security Council's decisions on the prevention of terrorism and the financing of terrorism. The immediate freeze of funds related to the financing of terrorist individuals and organisations or other assets and the access to no funds or assets of these individuals and organizations. What happens if Turkey doesn't do that? Turkey will face international sanctions if it does not. As part of these sanctions, the FATF membership will end, which means it will be expelled from FATF. If this happens, Turkey will be in the same position as the countries on the list of countries who support terrorism, which could lead to a major impact on Turkey's financial and banking system and a negative impact on international investments. It's not just about the financial system. International organisations that recognise FATF standards. The United Nations, the OECD, the IMF -- they expect Turkey to prepare a legal framework that will enable terror-related assets and bank accounts to be quickly frozen, that's the argument. It seems there's a Turkey on the one hand accusing foreign countries of supporting terrorism and financing terrorism. On the other hand, there is a Turkey accused by international organisations of not taking the necessary measures to prevent the financing of terrorism. On the other hand, there are standards prepared to fight the use of the international financial system in financing terrorism, but at the very beginning there are concerns and concerns that the implementation of these standards by the government will lead to arbitrary practices in Turkey, which will increase human rights violations. In view of this perspective, the situation that Turkey faces international sanctions because it does not take the necessary measures to finance terrorism cannot be assessed within the scope of financial consequences. For this reason, a thorough review and discussion of the Law Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism, which came back on the agenda with warnings from international organisations. Such an assessment was required by political scientists, lawyers, and human rights organisations together. We had to make it clear to the public why the international financial system, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) working to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism, had to warn Turkey and threaten to disinclusion. As the Republican People's Party, we believe that one of the effective and important methods of fighting terrorism is the prevention of the financing of terrorism, the draining of revenue sources that feed terrorism. However, in Turkey, where there are special prosecutors and courts suspending the fundamental rights and freedoms that the Constitution of Fascist coup 12 September 1980 has granted to individuals, where even those who want to use the rights recognised in the Constitution of September 12th are tried for membership in a terrorist organization, especially while regulations on terrorism are being made, we think it should be very careful for democracy, human rights and freedoms. In our country, all the problems with the anti-terrorism laws lie in the definition of terrorism. Anyone who opposes the government can be accused of being a terrorist. In our country, opposition to the government is thought to be called terrorist activity. Therefore, the basic principle, which is to be considered when the legal arrangements for terrorism are being made, is that the fight against terrorism should not be weakened at the same time, and on the other hand, I am fighting terror. The basic rights and freedoms should not be violated. Anti-terrorism can't be used as an excuse to destroy democracy, law, fundamental rights and freedoms. Because democracies are democracy, they have to fight terrorism within the borders of democracy and human rights. Because as governments move away from democracy and human rights, they begin to have something in common with the terrorist. It strengthens democracies, democracy, human rights, the principles of rule of law, even in extraordinary situations. To do that, democracies have to fight terrorism with one arm in hand. The Republic of Turkey has to fight terrorism without compromising democracy and human rights, and it has the power to do so. If we look at the above principles of this bill on the prevention of terrorism, like many legal scientists, we approach this bill with concern. We're not the only ones who are worried, and it's not just Turkey. Criticism that the powers defined in this bill can be used as arbitrary is not only expressed by the public, but similar concerns are included in international news. For example, in his news report on the issue, Financial Time has been criticised for keeping Turkey's terrorism scope so broad and has expressed concerns and concerns that would allow a law that would allow terrorism-related financial assets to be frozen without a court's decision: ▪ This bill on the prevention of financing of terrorism envisions the establishment of a commission under the name of the Commission and the establishment of its assets related to terrorism can be frozen by this commission. This bill is widely criticised for precisely this reason, that such authority can be used in an arbitrary manner and can lead to human rights violations. The political will is forced by this bill to establish a special commission for the United Nations by moving through the legislation of the United Nations on the grounds that it is forced by the black list. The United Nations contract stipulates that national above-national principles for the fight against terrorism, increased mutual co-operation among countries, taking effective legal, administrative and criminal measures in internal law, freezing of assets, confiscating and enforcing provisions. Although the bill includes provisions for the United Nations contract, since concepts and rules are not clearly laid out, and in many ways the practice will be shaped by the view of political power, not in the way the United Nations wants, but in the way the United Nations wants. When the bill is adopted, an administrative commission shall be established under the name of the Commission on the Evaluation of the property and funds of terror and terrorism. The commission is tasked with restricting property rights and austerity authority under basic rights and freedoms. This commission is entirely dependent on power. When it reaches the scope of investigation and trial, this commission will serve at the pre-investigation stage of the 10th Article of the Anti-Terror Law, and on the issues of terrorism that remain in the field of special authorities' courts. In that case, this administrative commission, its structure, its duties, and at the pre-investigation stage, is a special duty commission, as a result of the mission of special-duty courts. The conditions for freezing assets are not sought either by the financing of terrorism or by its specific purpose. The real and corporate people who are freezing assets will report all rights and debts to this commission, which constitutes financial custody. When we consider those who do not think like political power to be in prison as terrorists, the property of all individuals and organisations, such as organisations, such as unions, political parties, private universities, businessmen, professional organisations, who are no longer present by the side of the power, non-profits or opponents, journalists, media and members, corporations, corporations, corporations, organisations, institutions, property of all individuals and organizations, without any further investigation. In accordance with the Penal Code, it is also stated that the special commission's decisions can be executed only as they were seized by the judge, which has been imposed on the commission as well as on the charge of a criminal judge. Although the judicial path towards the commission's decisions is clear, there has been no judicial path to appeal to these administrative commission decisions, and there has been no ruling against the effective functioning of this road. Dear lawmakers, the whole problem, the main problem, is the definition of terrorism, as the laws on the fight against terrorism are being passed in our country. Today, in what the government calls democracy, anyone who opposes the government can be accused of being a terrorist. In short, opposition to the government is thought to be called terrorist activity in our country. Because the definition of terrorism is troubled by our law, all opposition acts can be considered terror. After this bill is passed, tomorrow's next day, there's a danger that its property can be seized for financing terrorism, no matter how opposing tradesmen, if there are businessmen. In addition, it should be noted immediately that the Constitution is smiling and exposed. Article 6 of the bill stipulates that the decision on the freeze of property made by foreign state governments should be left to the assessment commission, which clearly violates the Constitution. Here's the thing: freezing property is a controlled right to property. The subject of property rights is everyone according to the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. It is not on the basis of constitutional legitimacy that the intervention in this right should be envisioned without a judge's decision to demand from the foreign state. The regulation does not provide a basic measure of legality, the condition of predictability. It only prevents the decision-making of its assets from being taken from the courts and left to an administrative commission in case the demand for ice cream comes from the foreign state. The judicial decision for freezing the property found in Turkey is being sought by the Criminal Court Act, while the warrant for the request of the foreign state government is clearly contradicted by the rule of the Constitution, which makes it necessary not to be searched for this assurance when it comes to the demand, the judge's decision to confiscate it, and the decision of the authority's authority to submit it to the approval of the judge on duty within 24 hours of its delay. The regulation clearly contradicts the tenth joke of Article 38 of the Constitution, which states that the administration cannot apply to the provision of the freedom of the person, is it not, Mr. President? Yeah, clearly, it's against the rules. On the grounds of reasonable grounds that crime has been committed in Article 7, it is against the Constitutional provisions of the Constitution of the Constitution, which is contrary to the Constitutional provisions of the Constitution 6, 8 and 9. Given the additional funding of this board, which is not subject to the independence of the judge, this board will pose a serious problem because its memberships are not limited for a period of time, which clearly violates Article 35 of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, is it in any way a measure or punishment for freezing a person's assets along with his active and passive assets? Someone came along and said, "I've frozen all your assets because of the necessity." If the court launches an investigation within a year -- it will continue until the end, but if it doesn't, I have frozen all your assets for a year. Is that a measure or a punishment? And who decides this punishment? Bureaucrats. Who are these bureaucrats? The bureaucrats under executive command. How are these bureaucrats going to be able to make decisions in a country where even the judiciary is ruled and directed by the government, regardless of the government? This bill is unacceptable, even for this reason alone. None of the people on the board have a judge's ID. It is said that the bill was originally brought under international law based on the fight against terrorism, but it has nothing to do with it. The reason the bill has been driven from place to place in Turkey's Grand National Assembly for years is that the ruling party is not clear on the issue. Dear lawmakers, in Article 5 of the bill, the decisions of the United Nations Security Council are envisioned by the Council of Ministers, which considers the decision to freeze the property of the person, organisation and organisation that is on the list of sanctions. So based on the decisions of the U.N. Committee, the commission on freezing this property actually belongs to the Council of Ministers directly, not to the authorities. The 6th article is that the government of the foreign state requests Turkey to freeze the property of a Turkish citizen or a foreigner. According to this, the principle of reciprocity in making decisions on freezing his property will be considered, and the country will also be asked for guarantees. In the 7th article, there are reasonable reasons why he finances terrorism or is involved in terrorist activities other than the 5th and 6th Articles, the person may decide to make a request for the freezing of property in foreign countries, owned or under the control of organisations. It has to do with the assets found in Turkey, but it says the Penal Code No. 5271 will be carried out, which means that prosecutors in charge of Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law will be notified. Dear lawmakers, the fact that the authority to freeze the property in question can be transferred outside the 5th and 6th article, causing consequences that may reflect arbitrary practices, as well as an assessment commission of executive body representatives, due to reasonable reasons that the person may have committed the crime defined in Article 4, regardless of any judicial decision in the first place. Such a procedure must be initiated on the basis of judicial decisions. In any case, there is no recommendation in the United Nations contracts or FATF regulations for the transfer of such authority to an evaluation commission consisting of representatives of the executive body alone. Dear lawmakers, as I said, this bill -- this international, in the U.N. contract, and F.A.T.F.P.'s demands, although it was brought in, is not acceptable when the process of our country is considered and the human rights dimension is not considered. In fact, only the financing of this bill has been taken care of, and the damage it will do to implement human rights, democracy, and freedom has never been considered. So, in fact, this bill would have to be discussed at length. And it's clear how much attention should be taken to such terrorism regulations, especially now considering the fact that the generals, which the Prime Minister now declared to be coupgers a few years ago, are being accused of terrorism and organization membership today. We -- again -- as the Republican People's Party, when the terrorist regulations are being made, we want the fight against terrorism not to be weakened, but basically we consider the failure to destroy people's democracy and freedoms as a basic goal, not to eliminate the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. Our main goal is to make people live in democracy and freedom. So we have concerns and concerns about this bill. Our concerns and concerns have not been satisfied in the commission. As we have heard of concerns and concerns, the opposition party has heard, and even the ruling party is suffering from anxiety and anxiety. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0037par0394	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0038par0398	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. It starts with the name of the weirdo substance. There's a Minister in the government who we think knows English well. That's what I put in the first amendment motion when I was being interviewed by the Internal Affairs Commission. The financing of terrorism. Doesn't it scratch your ears too? Terrorism is a system of thought. He's got a definition of a weapon based on a weapon, a weapon that adopts it as a political method or something. So it's like the financing of Kamalism or feminism or any other thought system you can think of.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0039par0400	You're flippin' the words!
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0040par0401	How Kemalism has touched you! I mean, there's nothing more to say!
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0038par0402	No, it's no different, it's no different. You don't have to jump like you're stuck in a needle like that when you're a scientist. So it starts with the name freak. We also have friends here who are members of the Internal Affairs Commission, and until I tell you where this law is going, the CHP is getting pretty close, so before you yell at him like that, do something about it. Terrorism doesn't finance, terrorism does. It starts with the name freak. Now, in 2002, the process was initiated by the United Nations, and it's mandatory because we have signatures under which it should be converted into an internal law. So, where's the detonation of the dope here? The main opposition party spokesman just told me everything, and we're all in agreement with all the problems he's expressed about the law. But he didn't say anything; there is an explanation for Turkey's definition of terror in the United Nations contract. It can't be compromised because it's a contract. An explanation. A lecturer at the University of Gazi says: "In the definition of the United Nations, the PKK looks like a warring organization, it doesn't look like a terrorist organization. This is where Zurnan is detonated. What does the government do when that happens? All the countries in the world that have turned this into civil law, other than us, are translating it and turning it into civil law. We refer to the definition of terror, like the dava midwife, wherever you attract it, wherever you aim it, to TMK, who, after two or three relationships, can blame it as terrorists; this is where we have it, and it's not in other world states, and it's where the zurna cracks. Here, translate the U.N. contract one-on-one, and instead of financing that terrorism, call it the financing of terrorism... look, anyone can get away with it. The financing of the terrorist is not a crime, brother, but the financing of terrorism is a crime! Let me give you that wisdom. With this, translate the text in the United Nations, the contract exactly, we, the BDP, will first sign under this law, but if you refer to TMK as the definition of terrorism, what does it mean if you include everyone on trial under the TMK? For those of you who don't get the point. This means that a new property tax is coming, a new asset tax. What was the asset tax? Was it hatred for Armenians, Greeks, or other peoples in this country? No, it was a fortune transfer, a fortune transfer. No matter what war you tamper with in the world, no matter how much you think about it, it'll be gold, a fortune transfer. And here the government wants to back up two weapons: one, a fortune transfer; two, the threat of poverty. When you say property tax, you remove its spackles, that's what it's like. This isn't going to happen... please get a hold of the internal committee's debate on this. I specifically address the Commission and the cabinet. Most of the amendments were made by the AK PARTY MPs. Because why? Because this law is based on an Islamic-phobic reflex, which is to create another material basis for Islamophobia, which is fueled by 9/11 attacks. The West's approach to this is also to secure and secure a fortune transfer and its own savings there. Remember, the Prime Minister had to say that I vouch for a businessman who was in trouble about it. There's no bail system like this. I expected it to be a bail system. Well, if that's the case, the PM can vouch for a businessman, it's business, so let's make a bail hearing about them being charged with terrorism. Why? Because there's no guarantee of justice, and it doesn't work under the guarantee of justice. Don't laugh, this government will leave, tomorrow they'll start their first municipal tenders. Look, I'll tell you how they'll put you all in the chain. If there's no law, no law, you never know who's gonna get in the way. We have brought it, so we must defend it, there is no understanding. We'll see, how much does universal measurements, general principles of law fit in? Because it's private, first-preparation logic, genetic Islamophobic. So think about it before you laugh at what I'm saying. Bail is important because there's no judge, there's no trial, there's no law. The bureaucrat appointed by the government, today, you throw... this power is not falling from the sky to anyone, it's not. Tomorrow, another political formation arrives the next day -- all the enrichment after 2002 -- if TMK stays like this -- puts it on the table, instructs four bureaucrats, brings fuses from his nose. Because he's giving the government the power to poverty. For him, I mean, let's not go all dry. Please pay attention to this. Look, can our sincerity in this matter be clearer than this? Translate it one-on-one, we'll be the first to sign as a party. No. Now, it's not up to the judge's collateral. More importantly, it's something that concerns all opposing municipalities, and I'm saying it's a matter of separation. Let's say the mayor hires someone who's being tried for a crime under the TMK with an interview, hires them as contractors, or writes a business card. So that's the law in front of you that mentions the use of influence, and directly, with the misuse of terrorism, with the right use of terrorism, your mayor or the head of your department, or whoever it is, you're a doctor, you've taken it into your practice, and that's the case. Without referring to TMK, this law will not be a man until this TMK reference is released from here. And by "man," I mean it's not a manly expression, so it's a law that doesn't apply to the universal norms of the law, to the general principles of the law, it becomes a weapon, it becomes a form that every coming power will use. Another weirdo: Think of a welfare agency. There are plenty of them in our country. There are those who are pure, and there are those who are not. Let's say someone inside that chain entered into the TMK as a driver, as a driver. Let the ruling representatives say: "There is no answer in this law. There is no way that all that chain can be judged, if they want, like the financing of a terror. Now, this chain will be frozen, the raw owner in that chain -- if someone comes in, who's passed out -- if anyone wants power, if anyone wants -- not the judge anymore, not the bureaucrat, the head of the record, who? The ranking commanders, the head minister of that ranking chief, the prime minister, do it like this. Do not do it like that. He doesn't even have to say that. We have representatives of bureaucratic origin. The bureaucrat sits and thinks, Lan, if I do this, they'll make the world miserable for me. If I don't do this, they'll make the world miserable for me. There is no Mr. Minister of Justice and Mr. Home Secretary, Mr. Minister of Finance. I'm referring to a living example of the Bureaucrats' relationship with the government. We couldn't get a Kurdish kid to take the exam three or four times. He comes in for an interview, they don't ask any questions. Why? The current paradigm won't like it. I'm sure there's no such instruction, no hint, but the wind blows like this. Tomorrow, another kind of work, others will be victims. The only thing that doesn't change here is the victimization phenomenon. A total fortune transfer will serve as a property tax and a sword that swings over everyone who opposes it. For him, there is a way to follow this law. We'll stop referring to TMK, translate the United Nations contract one-on-one, make it our internal law. It's so complicated when it's so simple. On the other hand, he's in a hurry. This is one of the most important signs of colonial psychosis in this country. Why? Why all the fuss? International credit rating agencies say that if you haven't made this law into an internal law, it could contain a variety of handicaps from your point of view, from financial insurance to a lot of things. Why? Because it's under Western control. When it comes to capital, I mean, capital doesn't come at this rate, or look, it's being made in a hurry to get rid of it, because the government has resistance in the first place. There is no other U.N. contract, not just the government, but the United Nations contract, which has been turned into such reluctant domestic law by other member states. Why? America's Islamophobic approach is a copyrighted bonded form of financial poverty and despotism. What about the app? Now, we can't read intent. We're looking. That's how much we've talked about it in commissions, and we're exhausted in every way. In the application, there will be sectoral operations under the name of KCK in this country; they did it to teachers, they did it to the medics, they did it to the students; they did it to every school; they did it to the county, they did it to the county, they did it to the village, they did it to the village, they did it to the neighborhood, they did it to the locals, they were left with the only tradesmen and donors. This is the creation of a new Damocles sword on them. And look at the date of the arrival, the reduction to the commission, at a time when these KCK operations are accelerating, reckless. A peace climate is blowing in the country, and everyone is trying to support the process in their own way. He expressed anxiety, he expressed fear of fear, his contribution. And that's the way to act in harmony with the climate of peace, is to go back to the definition of universal terror here. Otherwise, it'll be a sign that you'd rather be an enemy than a relative. I don't want to say anything, whether that's your intention or not, but that's how the public will see it. Everyone from this TMK has burned their tongues, and there's a dead body, and there's no owner, no one's taking care of it. The Prime Minister is complaining, the Minister of Justice is complaining about the law's practices, judicial activities. So, who's beating us up? So we're turning around, we're looking at, we're looking at, this is the kind of guy who's going to complain about it, just forget about complaining about it in this country, this area is going to be held in areas that can be edited in a thousand different ways when you have a frown. So, in a way, in addition to all the sadness I've been taking, we're also signing an application to dynamite the peace climate in the country. To sum it up, today he returns to Kurd, tomorrow he returns to Turk, the next day he returns to the right, the next day he returns to Islamist, day after day he is used against Alevis; his essence is property tax and fortune transfer. There's no good in a law that excludes so many judicial processes, who's been handed over to so many bureaucrats, who've been handed over to his conscience, to his conscience, and, as a matter of fact, been written with an Islamic-phobic understanding. Let me finish with a verse by Ziya Pasha. From the dawn of a night like this, he will say. This is nothing but a provision for a certain place in the morning. The commissions didn't pay, they didn't benefit, and I wish the General Assembly would prevail. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0041par0428	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0042par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're talking about the bill of law on the financing of terrorism. It's a really important and long-awaiting law. And by long-awaited, I meant that even though this contract has been signed for years, it's been waiting a long time for law enforcement. Of course, the definition of terror is important first, so there is no specific definition of terror in the contract that we signed and approved. There's no definition of terror in international literature. I'm saying this from the beginning because this definition right here is about the content of the law and what we're about to add. So... Of course, beyond such a definition, new technological developments, a number of issues that have arisen in a series of studies on terrorism, all of them, friends, have become important. So we're not really opposed to this law being passed as the National Movement Party, but there are some flaws in its content, some issues that we're concerned about. Therefore, we generally find this arrangement about preventing funding, one of the elements of the anti-terrorism campaign, to be positive. In 2002 alone, beyond the fact that he had been released during the 57th Government... in a project of the European Union that our state institutions had done together when I myself was a professor, with the participation of our Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the MASAK, the police departments, and I, as an academic, was involved in this work on behalf of Turkey. So I'm a friend of yours who's studied the technological developments in that area with experts on how terrorist organizations have benefited from these developments and what measures are being taken in these organised crimes -- a number of trafficking, drug trafficking, human trafficking, illegal activities, and how important it is to prevent them from doing so. For him, I'd like to rephrase the fact that we found it necessary, but we found it inadequate. Of course, again, before we go into the evaluation of the law, it's just an element of counterterrorism. Otherwise, he's going to cut off his funding completely. We're not actually negotiating a bill, we're doing a study to make it fit for an international contract, dear friends. Of course, we care about cutting these resources to prevent crime before it happens. But we're also freaks, dear friends. We're building a law to prevent the financing of terrorism, but to prevent terrorism, I'm afraid it's the AKP government in a confusion to prevent terrorism in Turkey. I mean, we find it necessary, we find it inadequate, but we also need to make a note of some measures from the other side. While you're making a law like this, even though it's incomplete, telling us to take some precautions in it, on the other hand, we're in a process where we're dealing with the terrorist leader, who's been sentenced to life in prison, who's led terrorism to incentive and irresolvency. We have serious concerns. I mean, this law we've made, it doesn't mean anything. On the one hand, Mr. Prime Minister is committed to encouraging the terrorist organization... and he says, "If they do, we won't do anything, let them go." So, if they leave, if they take it away, what's the point of this law we're making? Let's say they have cash assets. They don't have to launder it by putting it in the system. How are you gonna hold it if they take it out and take it out again? You're already making guarantees. So, we see this as one of the key elements of the anti-terrorism campaign, but unfortunately, since the current stance has come from the fight against terrorism to the negotiation process, we don't think this law will be very useful. So far, we've warned you about these issues, but our friends are saying them upstairs, and I've told you in the Plan and Budget Commission, how we came from the fight against terrorism to negotiate with terrorism, what compromises we've made, and in our warnings that we've come to this point, we've passed them on to you as a written recommendation in the bill, both in the commissions and in the General Assembly. But unfortunately, as we arrived today, your confusion continues. So, as all the problems in Turkey continue in the form of lumps, as we are held here by the middle of the night, sir, let's make this law, let's make this law... on the other hand, we're waiting for laws and proposals for economic, social problems, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, by making such a compromise, when you make a concession to the terrorist organization in a manner that supports the armed struggle, it will demand more of you, it will take one step at a time, and we are faced with a process of division that will endanger the back of the Republic of Turkey's state, dear friends. There are some really important things here, and there are a lot of decisions made in this frame. Okay, so the United Nations has a lot of decisions. However, the United Nations, as well as the Council of Europe, has its decisions. You told us the reason for all this, our friends did valuable work, so a lot of things have been reviewed. We looked, and our friends did, but we can't see them in practice. Now, there's the Anti-Terror Act. Inside of it, the 8th article has already been compiled, and certain things have been done. This arrangement gives us no authority in international law. Most importantly, I mean, he doesn't recognize this opportunity to prevent the financing of terrorism, where there are other valuable friends. Of course, in our current arrangement, a number of regulations have been made in the law on confiscation of property, the fight against black money, the other, the Anti-Terror Law, the Turkish Penal Code, again. In fact, if applied, the current laws and financing resources in Turkey will be prevented. ▪ Well, then, what does this law bring? So, right now it's in the Turkish Penal Code, the 54th article on other items' permits, the 55th article on profit permits; again, CMK has something to do with them again in 128, 133. And the last, beyond that, again, in the study that we've just done, I've said about the 8th article, we've already put it here, so we're referring to 3713, in the law, we're calling it terror crimes here. When we look here, it says: "He who is fully or partially willing to fund or collects terrorist crimes will be punished as a member of the organization." Well, what he says next, the perpetrator will be punished in the same way, even if it is not used. Now, about these crimes, we say, let's go into a new process. But in our arrangement, the European Union wants it, the European Commission wants it. We call it the United Nations contract. We have to obey him anyway, so whether this law comes out or not, the Supreme Assembly approves of it, so we have to comply. And if there is a demand, just make up your own internal law in our own internal legislation. He has given you an authority to make it up to that internal law, and we're doing something today to make it up to him. But, dear friends, there are questions as well. I mean, they've got us pinned down, we've stopped so far, we haven't been able to pull us out in November again. This Financial Action Task Force will hold another meeting on February 22nd, and if you do not pass this law by then, we will remove you from OECD's Financial Action Task Force. We get it, you squeeze it for him, you say, "Let's get it out of here." But we're doing the same thing. As we correct this here, we also eliminate basic rights and freedoms that have been criticised in the reports of the European Union -- the judge's guarantee. Of course, these arrangements are necessary to make certain decisions, administrative decisions, but the definition of the contract we've established here does not meet our demands, dear friends. Right now, when we take out this law in this form... there are nine separate clauses in that contract, and we've compiled them into the law, but in these circumstances, this bill does not give us the direct terrorist resources, financing resources of the PKK, the opportunity to make the cut when we demand it. Oh, in terms of domestic law, yes, it strengthens our hand. You can say that, but they already exist. I've just counted them, in the Anti-Terror Law, in the Penal Code, in the Law, in the Law on Avoiding the laundering of black money, all of which we've done, so if we do it, there's no strings attached to our hands anyway. We have the opportunity to confiscate these and allow them to do the necessary work, but it is important that we remove the authority of the Evaluation Commission on ice cream in the 2nd and 9th article here. Because when a decision is made in a normal way or so, the administrative measures, the warranty of the judge, there's no guarantee of a judge left here except for the decision taken by the administration, and then to take legal action, I'm afraid, dear friends. And there's something else here. It's a different definition of what's in the contract with this bill that we put in. So why can't we apply it internationally; we -- in the nail -- we've removed part of it there, dear friends. That's exactly what this contract says in the first joke of Article 2 (b) says in the context of the first article in the article in question: "All other actions aimed at scaring or forcing a government or an international organization to avoid any action or carrying out any action." See what it says now: Now, I draw your attention to this, the part that we're taking out is this: this is the part of what we're taking out: this is the part of a civilian or any other non-arresponsor of an armed conflict that doesn't directly give us the authority to kill or to seriously wound another person who doesn't participate in this conflict. We put nine items in there. Here's what's important, as a 10th article, is that he's suffered a lot from terrorism, and he's still suffering from it, as lawmakers of a country, and as a government, it's important for us, according to the geography of each country, that he's different from the geostrategic importance, and that, in any case, in the context of terrorism, maybe with an additional contract, he'll have the United Nations contract added to the context of the Council of Europe with a new context. Otherwise, we'll just be doing what they say we're doing, making the arrangement in our own internal law a little bit different. Let me share another concern: Last night, as the fourth package of judgment was presented to Parliament in the middle of the night, information went down on their websites. I haven't been able to go over the details yet. But in this case, he says some nonviolent crimes will be removed from the definition of terror. If such a thing is added to the commissions or the General Assembly, with the work we're going to do here, then I'm asking you if the financing of terrorism is violent or not? Do people use violence to finance terrorism? He doesn't use it. So he's saying that we should be able to prevent any of the arrangements that we're going to make between us from coming to something that's going to tie our hands, and we should be able to prevent you from coming here as the ruling party group, and Mr. Secretary as the government's official, and welcome, Mr. Secretary, by the way, the ministers have changed as we speak. It doesn't matter, they all represent the government, so... Dear friends, for what it's worth, while we're here, while we're doing this law, let's not disable one of the laws we've passed with another law. It's a really big problem here. I'm afraid we're just pretending we've got it all figured out, regardless of what's going on here. Here he calls something against civilians a United Nations contract as an act of terrorism. That's not when the attacks on us fighting the military and the police don't happen. Oh, and why were they criticizing us here? In Turkey, actions against international institutions or states are considered under the Turkish Penal Code under the Anti-Terror Law. In part, with this contract coming out, maybe we'll get rid of a little more criticism, or maybe we'll get rid of the meeting of the Financial Action Task Force on February 22nd, we'll get rid of being a second country, but it won't solve our business. Come on, we'll take this opportunity to review our anti-terrorism methods, dear friends. Because it doesn't happen in practice, we have contracts that we've done the same way, contracts that we've signed, contracts that we've approved, extradition of criminals; unfortunately, there are also decisions made by the Council of Europe. We've approved them, but in practice -- our officers, our friends here, they know -- the State Department is applying, but we're returning the criminals, unfortunately they're not, so we can't even get the contract that's in accordance with their terms to be fulfilled. So here, let's review the fight against terrorism, one of these factors is its financing, but it's not the primary element, it's the secondary element. First of all, we have to give up negotiating terrorism against terrorism, or else we'll make a lot of laws here, but in practice, we can't do that if we compromise here. On the one hand, when there's the smallest thing, sir, don't let it undermine our negotiation process. We can't prevent it if you keep taking it down. Because we, the National Movement Party, have always said that we're in favor of a solution. We think that this should include a more concrete measure that can be put into a judge's guarantee as well as in an international sense, actually preventing the financing of terrorism. Even if this law comes out, we feel that we need to be able to change this definition of our relevant institutions in the presence of the European Union, with the European Commission, and with the United Nations, because there's no way we can make these measures effective without international cooperation. For years, you know, in many places in Europe, we know that some countries in different ways, as in the example of the extradition of criminals -- we know that they are a set in front of this. So let's do our own struggle in the form of real struggle, let's give up this concession process, first let's take security measures into a different category, and then let's take other economic and social measures together as structural measures; otherwise, when you know an ethnic identity, a geography, a special status in a region, it's a division demand, my dear friends. We, the National Movement Party, see nationalism and democracy as twin brothers. So we believe that all of our people -- regardless of the ethnic origin, the region where they live -- need to protect their basic rights and freedoms, all of them to develop the level of democracy and the level of economic development, but we can give it to everyone by giving equal opportunities, equal rights and freedoms within equal civility law. If we go into a multicultural, multi-national order, that's the division, the end of the state of the Republic of Turkey, which is how we continue to watch. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Hopefully, you'll review this negotiation process and take measures to prevent this division, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0043par0450	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0044par0453	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the general bill on the financing of terrorism. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The bill we're discussing is a very important bill for our country's fight against terrorism. Our opposition lawmakers have made assessments, but, sadly, they even tried to interpret this important bill by drawing it to other sides. Under this roof, we would expect all of our political parties to give a more constructive assessment by lawmakers from a country that has suffered from terrorism for many years. In particular, we are now discussing the requirements of an international contract, the law of harmony, signed during the reign of the speaker of the National Movement Party, who spoke before me. Of course, the plan we're discussing is clear. We're organizing the crime of financing terrorism. We're setting up the basic and method of freezing the assets of the people and corporations who finance terrorism. Apart from these goals, other purposes for the bill are merely aberrations. The 1999 U.N. Convention on Anti-Financing Terrorism was signed by our country on September 27, 2001, and became part of our internal law by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 10 January 2002. At that time, the AK PARTY is not yet in power. In fact, the opposition should have criticised the government for the fact that this contract, signed in 1999 and appropriated in 2002, did not adapt to domestic law until now, while they are following a false policy in this regard, as if they were trying to give the impression that it was motivated by different purposes. Dear lawmakers, terrorism that threatens humanity is an important problem for all countries of the world. Turkey is the head of the most affected countries in the world. Therefore, it is clear that as a country with the most damage to the United Nations member states, we need to contribute to the resolution of the issue within the framework of international cooperation and invite the entire world to be sensitive about it. Terrorist organisations need a large amount of funding to run their operations. They try to obtain this funding through many illegal and illegal activities and methods. A terrorist organization that has been cut off from financial resources is unlikely to survive for long. Therefore, for an effective fight against terrorism, national and international financial resources providing logistical support to terrorists must be drained. In order for these financial resources to be drained, the United Nations Convention has been responsible for preventing the financing of terrorism to the entity states to take the necessary measures. According to the contract, the state will take the crime of financing terrorism, criminal prosecution in its internal law, and will take the necessary measures to ensure proper punishment by considering the weight of these crimes. Unfortunately, in this important issue, as in many other areas, there have been no steps to be taken since the 99th signing of the Convention on Obstruction of United Nations Terrorism. Until 2006, there is no type of crime in our legislation called the financing of terrorism. The crime of financing terrorism in Turkey, which has been fighting different terrorist organisations for many years, has been added to the 8th article of our Anti-Terror Law in 2006. It has not been included in this, that the Law on Financial Crimes and the Research Board have been given important tasks as part of the financing of terrorism to prevent the laundering of criminal revenues. In our new Turkish Penal Code, sanctions for laundering criminal assets have entered our legislation. As part of an international contract that has become part of our internal law and we have to abide by it, our legislation is being resolved by the United Nations Security Council and by our country on the basis of the implementation of decisions on the freezing of assets and demands in this direction in order to prevent financing terrorism. It seems today that his understanding of neutralizing terrorists in the fight against a terrorist organization is not enough. Therefore, the necessary measures for financing terrorism must be taken and put into practice without delay. International cooperation is essential to prevent global financial movements of terrorist organisations. If all the countries of the world don't work together on this, it's not possible for the countries to do so alone. The relevant measures set out in the UN Security Council's decisions on this matter must be taken without delay by member states. In accordance with the 90th article of our Constitution, such decisions, which are binding on our country, will be out of the question. The development of national legal systems in the laundering of criminal revenues and fighting them will be carried out through the bill by the Financial Action Task Force, which has established legislation in order to harmonise international law and ensure a continuous co-operation between member states on these issues, and has also registered enlargement of the financing of terrorism and has been taken into internal law by the measures taken by the Financial Action Task Force, which are part of our country. Otherwise, our country will be in danger of entering the blacklist of the Financial Action Task Force, where we are now on the gray list, and it is inevitable that we will be able to deal with the prerequisite sanctions in the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force. These sanctions may be warnings, such as warnings from financial institutions to be more careful with business connections and relations with companies and financial institutions on this list, or to attract the attention of financial institutions, which have branches or share-sharing participation in such countries. In cases when these warnings are inadequate, there are recommendations on whether banks or companies in the countries listed will take risks opening branches in other countries and warn that there is a possibility of money laundering in trade relations with these countries. Our economy will be negatively affected if our country is blacklisted because we failed to carry out the internal legal arrangement for financing terrorism. In this case, foreign capital will diminish interest in our country, and it will be difficult to keep what it has inside the country, and on the other hand, it will cause damage to Turkish companies, which have achieved great success worldwide in recent years. Therefore, we cannot ignore the economic impact of the bill, but what is more important to Turkey than the economic sanctions of the Financial Action Task Force is that the PKK's financial resources abroad are being cut off. The United States has declared the PKK a terrorist organization under any name. The European Union has also announced that the PKK is a terrorist organisation and has decided to seize the organisation's financial resources in member states under the United Nations Anti-Terrorism Decisions. In order to demand the freeze of the PKK's terrorist organisation's assets in foreign countries, we must first, as Turkey, complete our lack of legislation on this issue. When we establish our civil law in accordance with the United Nations contract, our country's hand will be strengthened so that we can demand the freeze of the assets of terrorist organizations in foreign countries. If foreign countries ask Turkey to freeze the assets of people and organisations who support terrorism, we will be required to demand them, as per the principle of reciprocity, so that the PKK terrorist organisation's financial resources in foreign countries will be cut off. Mr. President, the most important criticism of our opposition lawmakers regarding the bill are criticism that the Evaluation Commission, which will assess the freeze of its assets, is an administrative committee and that measures regarding freezing property should be carried out by a judicial decision. I'd like to point out that these criticisms are not appropriate. When we look at the legal nature of the decision to freeze property, it is a precautionary decision, and it is not right to describe it as a punishment. Since the freeze decision did not produce the result of allowing assets as a return of crime, it is not possible to consider it an act of punishment or a crime. Therefore, there is absolutely no need for the measure to be taken by a judicial decision. However, those who claim that their property should be frozen unfairly will be subject to judicial control of all actions and procedures, according to Article 125 of our Constitution. If we argue that the decision to freeze property is against property rights by an administrative board, then the administration should not be able to make a publicisation decision, it shouldn't be able to. In cases of public interest, administrative committees can make these decisions, but you must also remember that they are subject to judicial supervision. When we look at members of the Evaluation Commission, we see that it is the top executive of the most important institutions for the security of our country. The chairman of the board (MASAAK) is the head of the Financial Crimes Research Board. When we look at its members, its members are: Prime Minister's Security Affairs General Director, Deputy Director of MIT, Director of Justice Department Criminal Affairs, Director General of State Department Security Affairs, Deputy Director of Finance Sectors. The decision to freeze the property will be made by at least 51% of senior executives to whom these important tasks have been submitted. Calling the members of the Evaluation Commission as a council in the direction of power and criticizing them with prejudices that they may make wrong decisions is an attitude that will wear down our institutions and representatives, the ones that we have entrusted with important tasks for the safety of our country. As a result, all actions and procedures of the administration are subject to judicial control, and these criticisms are of no value. It is not possible to participate in criticism that the freezing of property that is being tried to include in our legal system is an open and disproportionate intervention in property rights. It can be limited when it comes to public benefits that a person may be able to save his property in any way he wants. The decision to freeze property is also a measure limiting property rights. It is clear that the assets used in the financing of terrorism are aimed at harming someone else and have public benefit in freezing them. Again, our opposition lawmakers are looking for a judge's decision to freeze their property in Turkey, while they have views that it is contrary to the principle of equality that there is no need for a judge's decision when it comes to foreign state demand, which is not true. The freezing of property of the people and organisations listed by the United Nations Security Council decisions is not the decisions that will be made directly into implementation. The Security Council decisions will come to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers will decide on this issue, and this decision will be carried out after it is published in the Official Gazette. If foreign states make demands from Turkey, the Commission for Evaluation will again come to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers will be able to apply if they decide on this issue. The Evaluation Commission will make a recommendation to the Council of Ministers in their demands on freezing assets to foreign states. In connection with the assets found in Turkey, the Republic's prosecution will be charged with demanding an investigation under the Criminal Court Act. There are two different situations here. If a decision has been made to freeze Turkey's assets, the crime of financing terrorism has been committed in Turkey. Since Turkish laws must be enforced, the provisions of the Penal Code shall be enforced and the judge's decision will be required. When it comes to the request of a foreign state, the crime has been committed against a foreign country in a foreign country, so since the judicial process will continue in the foreign country, there will be no action in Turkey according to the CMC. Our friends from the opposition are confusing these two different situations. Therefore, it is not against the principle of equality. Dear lawmakers, there are important guarantees for our country as to the demands of freezing foreign assets. The principle of reciprocity is one of them. Demanding guarantees from a foreign country is key guarantees that the decision will be lifted if there is no investigation in the foreign country within a year of freezing its assets. It is also a key guarantee that if the financing of terrorism is committed against a foreign state or an international institution, the investigation and prosecution will be subject to the permission of the Ministry of Justice. We have to look for ways to drain the terrorist organization's financial resources to succeed in international law. It may be possible to criticize the structure of international institutions and claim that there is no justice system. However, it is not right to defend the failure to follow the rules that the existing system has uncovered and to defend the failure to meet the obligations of the contract, which became part of our internal law by signing it. The only person who can criticize the structure of the United Nations and its international organisations and some of their decisions is our Prime Minister. It's one thing to criticize the international system, but it's another to abide by the contract we signed. We had friends who said it was an imposition of the international system and that it had nothing to do with the fight against terrorism and international law. There is no credible side to the criticism that this bill, the government, was put up to seize the property of those who opposed it, who wanted it. There have been people in our country who separated capital by color before the AK PARTI rule. Trade companies have been tagged according to the mindset of their owners. If those who have done wrong in the past, those who have done wrong, the thought of power, and if they think that the same wrong and injustice continue today, it is a false thought. Because in power, there is a party that ends unjust practices, not to confuse the AK PARTY with the previous ones. Our nation believes that in the eleven years we've left behind, the AK PARTI government is working to solve all of our country's problems, and it also sees that it solves an important part of those problems. Our nation, which believes that the terror problem that has haunted our country for over 30 years, will also be resolved, supports the steps we take in this regard. Our government, trying to eliminate the social, cultural, economic causes of terrorism, has taken an important step to drain the financial resources of terrorism with the bill we're talking about today. Until our country's EC PARTY power, there has been no stage for effective, comprehensive, and adequate work aimed at cutting off the resources of terrorism. Today, the collapse of the terrorist organization's shell-trafficking companies, the raids on drug fields, and the fact that the bill for financing terrorism that we're discussing is on the agenda is indicators of commitment. With the legislation of the bill, our country will now adapt to international law in order to prevent funding of terrorism, while we will have a strong and significant opportunity to fight terrorism. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the bill well, and salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0045par0472	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0046par0473	Mr. President, the speaker has made false statements that have nothing to do with what I'm saying. I'd like to make a small statement.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0045par0474	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0046par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. What I said was very clear, my friends. Mr. Bronze probably put us in generalization. In January 2002, the 57th government, which was part of the National Movement Party, signed this contract. That's not what I was critical of, Mr. Bronze. I said we're needed as the National Movement Party, but we find it inadequate, once again. I said it's necessary, but we find it inconclusive. And what we find inadequate is that this law doesn't give us instruments in the international arena, which, based on this contract, will allow us to cut the financing of terrorism. In fact, together, I said, let's work with the State Department, with the MASAAK, with the United Nations contract, with the European Conventions, with the reservations of Turkey -- you know, the contract -- let's put them in there as a sentence. What we criticized was that, on the contrary, for ten years, there had been no regulation to prevent the financing of terrorism, and now you're doing it, but it's not enough, and we're saying there are no certain guarantees. It also needs to be used internationally. And we're looking at what we're saying here to prevent funding, but on the other hand, we've criticised the AKP government's policy to bring terrorism to this point with encouraging concessions. Otherwise, you know that our criticism is not about the necessity of the law or about adapting to the inside of the contract. I believe Mr. Bronze said he'd include the MHP, as a slip of the tongue as a generalization. That's why I wanted to fix it here again. The Nationalist Movement Party, in favor of our country, says it is a party that is most important to our country -- which has come to a different point now 12 years later -- that is willing to do its part in the fight to get rid of this terror problem.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0047par0485	On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Süleyman Nevzat is not afraid. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0048par0488	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, in today's world, there is talk of a phenomenon called the terrorist economy, a reality. The legitimate side, of course, is the revenues in the fight against terrorism, the expenses, the anti-terrorism budget. It is also known that terror uses illegitimate sources, such as its own status, attacks and targets humanity and its values. In this way, terror is considered to be the enemy of humanity. The mindset that supports terrorism, gets into bed with terrorism, negotiates is a natural consequence of this proposal, an enemy of humanity. We also know that terrorism does not value human life for its own admissions, and that it does not base its actions on very high costs. You're aware that killing, bloodshed, destruction, results alone are enough, but it also needs serious income resources when you think about the costs of the organization and its members that need to be done before the action, terrorism training and housing and travel costs, propaganda costs. In order to meet these costs, we see terrorist organizations, even rivals of each other, yet enemies of each other, engage in global activity through mutual rustion. In return, we also find that governments are heading for international aid and cooperation with a growing sensitivity to the laundering of criminal revenues and preventing financing of terrorism in order to eliminate the mobility and capabilities of terrorist organisations. Dear lawmakers, we can sum up terrorist revenues in three categories: incomes created on the basis of legitimacy, revenues obtained from the criminal economy, and activities that constitute criminal activity. It is possible to count terrorist revenues in these categories as: international aid to the terrorist organization, drug and arms trafficking; oil, cigarettes, diamonds, gold, booze, chemical and nuclear trafficking; human trafficking, robbery, forgery, organised crime organizations; money laundering, sir; money laundering from the organisation's cultural, art and broadcast revenues; money from international humanitarian charities and so on. Dear lawmakers, while the attacks against Turkey by the blood-soaked terrorist group of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have been under way for 30 years, it is expected that Turkey will produce necessary measures to prevent the organisation's financing, making necessary initiatives. The AKP, which has ruled the country alone for 11 years, has no fight against terrorism on its agenda, but has a conscious stillness in the area of dehydration of terrorism's financial resources. I'll tell you. We are witnessing that our country has been put into years of sleep by the AKP, following the signing of Turkey during the 57th government, including the National Movement Party on September 27, 2001, and the adoption of the law in accordance with the Turkish Parliament on January 10, 2002. That's not what we're saying. The US Interior Ministry's annual International Narcotics Control Strategy Report, which published in 2011. In the fight against black money, he failed to complete his shortcomings in the financing of terrorism, not making enough progress, he says for Turkey. The Financial Action Work Group, FATF, which has drawn up the report, complains that Turkey does not punish the terrorists' financiers enough, it does not freeze the terrorists' assets, it does not create the legal framework for this. Despite international complaints, the AKP is not being investigated for planting matchwater at the root of control institutions in Turkey; it is not being punished; even after the relevant institution, MASAK, 2009, does not do statistics on these crimes, criminals. As a result of these complaints, in January 2010, I am enforcing FATF (FATF) laws. The government, which promised, did not keep that promise. The FATF shares the Turkish government's insensitivity with public opinion, and the AKP shows a sign of movement. As always, he acts as if he is doing it again, bringing a draft to the assembly. The draft is held on the parliamentary agenda for the elections in April 2011. In a year's time, in May 2012, FATF threatens you, and I'm going to cut you out of membership. Pass this law through the House at once. The AKP is afraid of international reactions, it's moving a little bit more. He's bringing it up to the Internal Affairs Commission, and he's not bringing it down to the Assembly General Assembly again. The FATF must have been infuriated after the AKP government's dragging its feet, saying it would remove Turkey from membership in February 2013. Today, unfortunately, this bill is the result of FATF (FATF) pushing the government. Dear lawmakers, as you can see, 11 years have passed since the international contract in 2002, but we are facing an AKP, sir, which has avoided bringing legal regulation to parliament, which has been hidden from public opinion, both international and national public opinion. Even this shows that the AKP has not been fighting terrorism on its agenda since the beginning. Now, if this draft came our way, would he have given up that thought? Since there are no common principles and measures stemming from the reality of the country around the world, the bill is no more than a game of greyhounds. I'll play the AKP, but my place is tight. I'm hiding behind his alibi. Dear MPs, the AKP has clearly not brought parliament the draft law, which will be a cure for the financing of terrorism, Turkey's most important issue, over the years, over its ears. We need to make that determination first. Over the years, thousands of children have suffered from this, this insensitivity, children, wives, and parents have been sacrificed to terrorism. The AKP, unfortunately, has remained silent and insensitive in the process of draining the funding of terrorism. The terrorist organization has been mauled, macheted and behind a billion-dollar terrorist economy. The National Movement Party has repeatedly warned us. The success of the fight against terrorism is largely related to the solution to the lifeblood financing of this organisation. On June 20, 2010, our President-General, Dr. State Garden, presented the presidency with a package of proposals for the measures to be taken. Your Majesty, look at what the good Lord says; consult as a government, and listen. No, he doesn't mean it, he doesn't have a heart. He's got an alibi. He's got a tight spot. By the way, thousands of motherland children have been sacrificed to terror, so it doesn't matter. The gentleman's idea is Middle Eastern domination, Arab Spring, fake, sir, virtual Gaza law, et cetera, et cetera. Look, the president of the National Movement Party presented what suggestions three years ago: The Habur border gate must be closed. The shares taken by the PKK and its patron, hengemerge leader Barzani, must be eliminated from here. The Kerkuk-Egg pipeline must be disabled because the construction of Western servants in the northern part of Iraq is caused by these, not only by Turkey, but also by the integrity of Iraq. Turkish companies that feed, build, develop, operate in the region, including oil exploration, must withdraw from the region. Again, the terrorism economy must be kept under strict surveillance, which means it has to be run by the ▪3F rule. What is this? Finding, freezing, forfeiture. Bulma, ice cream and seizure. After all, these warnings and recommendations of the National Movement Party were ignored; as a result, this snake fed by the AKP is about to swallow the integrity of Turkey and its 1,000-year brotherhood. The National Movement Party, however, will support this law. However, we will continue to share with you what issues are missing during the negotiations. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0049par0512	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Finance Mr. Mehmet Simsek. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0050par0516	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the government regarding the Prohibition of Anti-Terrorism. On this occasion, I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, I congratulate you on the anniversary of the title of Antwerp. I bless all our martyrs, and honor our veterans, who have written the heroic saga that led to this. First of all, I would like to inform you about the reasons for the drafting of this bill: As it is known, the OECD, the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization, was established in 1961, based on the Paris Convention, signed on December 14, 1960, and our country was a member of this organization at the same time. The OECD established the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, in 1989, in order to prevent standardisation of legislation to combat money laundering, the banking system and financial institutions from using money laundering. Our country was a member in 1991, where 34 countries and two regional organisations are currently members. At the FATF General Assembly meeting in October 2001, the fight against financing terrorism was added to FATF's mandate. As part of this mission, the FATF has requested nine special recommendations for financing black money and terrorism, especially for ratifying and implementing UN documents, making terrorism, terrorist activities and terrorist organisations a crime, freezing terrorist assets and implementing them by member states, in order to prevent financing of black money and terrorism. At the same time, the FATF monitors and assesses the development of member states on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and its compliance with international contracts periodically. As a result of the study of our country in this scope, the report said that there was basically no regulation for the financing of terrorism that was not in accordance with the Convention on Anti-Terrorism Finance, except in judicial ways and mutual judicial aid mechanisms, in which other countries would be initiated in line with freezing mechanisms. Meanwhile, the G-20 summit, held in September 2009, included a detailed review of our country following the decision to report high-risk countries in terms of money laundering and terrorist financing. During the study process, a plan of action was presented by our country to address the shortcomings at the FATF General Assembly meeting held in February 2010. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the development of our country during the FATF General Assembly process has been briefed as follows: At the FATF General Assembly meeting of the United Arab Emirates from 15 February to 19 February 2010, two lists have been made public by countries who failed to comply with FATF's standards of laundering and terrorist financing. The first is a list of countries that have been lacking and do not improve in the fight against laundering and terrorism financing, including Iran and North Korea, and the other is a list of countries with insufficient improvements, and Turkey has been included in this second list. The FATF general boards, held between February 2010 and October 2012, have ruled that Turkey's commitment to the action plan is still not legalised to meet international standards in the draft of the Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism. In October 2012, the FATF General Assembly decided to suspend Turkey's FATF membership if Turkey failed to legalise its proposed bill by February 2013. In parallel with this decision, the risk of Turkey being placed on the black list, the first list, of Iran and North Korea. All of this is the background of this bill. Mr. President, a commission has been established as a co-ordinator of the Ministry of Justice, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs, National Defence Ministrys, General Staff, Treasury Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service, Supreme Intelligence Agency, Supreme Court, Prosecutor's Office and academics to meet the FATF criteria for international contracts and standards. This commission drafted a draft bill on the prevention of terrorism. The draft was presented to the opinion of relevant institutions and organisations, and the draft was finalised and presented to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Although the bill was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on February 1, 2011, it was not legalized and declared invalid before the parliamentary general elections. On 21 October 2011, the bill was again presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the fight against terrorism's financial dimension has become an international problem. International organisations, such as the United Nations, the Financial Action Task Force, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the European Security and Co-operation Agency, have developed various measures to combat financing of terrorism and terrorism. In this regard, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the first and most important international contract, which included detailed regulations for the fight against the financing of terrorism, on December 9, 1999, the International Convention on Finance of Terrorism was adopted. The contract was signed by our country on September 27, 2001, and was adopted in accordance with Law 4738 and became part of our internal law and became an international obligation to our country. The contract, in particular, provides the obligation to determine, find, freeze, hand-held, legal and administrative measures, to create necessary and effective measures to prosecute and punish the perpetrators, to develop international cooperation among governments, in order to determine, or use funds or use for the use of terrorist crimes, which are suspected of providing for the free movement of legitimate capitals. In the field of combating the financing of terrorism, our country has thus far sided with the ten international contracts, which have been adopted within the United Nations and have become part of our legislation in the face of Article 90 of the Constitution. He also signed all contracts made by the Council of Europe, including the Council of Europe Convention on the Council of Europe, which was adopted on 16 May 2005 in Warsaw, which took effect on 1 June 2007. On the other hand, the United Nations Security Council, which is tasked with protecting international peace and security, has determined measures to be taken by the countries by a number of decisions to prevent the financing of terrorism and terrorism. Other bodies within the United Nations can make recommended decisions, while all members of the Security Council can make binding decisions. Under Section 7 of the United Nations Security Council's provisions for the protection of peace and security of the United Nations Security Council, 1267 to 1373 to prevent the financing of terrorism based on the authority the member states have to comply with, and it is also not necessary for the implementation of these decisions and approval of member states and our country. Mr. President, in accordance with the UN requirements, lists are being issued by the Council of Ministers' decision to ensure implementation of Security Council decisions 1267, to prevent the activities of individuals and organisations providing support for terrorism, and according to these decisions, the assets of people mentioned on the lists are frozen by an administrative decision. Since 2001, 14 Council of Ministers' decisions have been issued in this direction. Under the decisions made by the Council of Ministers, all rights and benefits of individuals and organisations identified as property in Turkey are frozen from those listed on the additional lists of decisions. Under this application, the Council of Ministers' decision to freeze the assets of a person listed by the United Nations on the grounds that it finances terrorism was brought to trial by the State of Turkey. As a result of the trial, the Council of Ministers ruled on 22 February 2007 that the decision of the Council of Ministers is in accordance with the law, on the grounds that the United Nations Treaty shall meet its obligations to member states and that the forceful measures set by the Security Council should be carried out. Mr. President, good lawmakers today, the fight against financing terrorism is an essential factor in the fight against terrorism. The fight against terrorism's financing is quite different from the classic anti-terrorism methods. One of the most important aspects of this struggle is the effective fight against legal means. Legally, there are two ways to prevent financing terrorism. The first is measures related to criminal law. The measures related to criminal law are measures related to the independent crime of action on material criminal law, protection measures on criminal reasoning and regulations on execution law. The second aspect of preventing the financing of terrorism is preventive measures. Mr. President, the bill consists of a total of 22 articles, including four chapters, one temporary. With this bill, it is essentially arranged in two areas. First, the financing of terrorism has been redacted. In addition to actions that may be a subject to the financing of terrorism described in Anti-Terror Law 3713 when the financing of terrorism was redefined, this includes financing of nine international contracts and actions in addition to the actions in the International Convention of the United Nations to prevent the financing of terrorism. In this way, the scope of acts that constitute the crime of financing terrorism is expanded, and thus the crime of financing terrorism is compliant with international contracts. According to the arrangement, the crime of financing terrorism was staged as a crime that could only be committed on purpose and willingly, in a direct statement. I mean, it's not in this context that someone who doesn't know how to transfer resources to places one way or another. Article 4 of the article where the elements of the crime are organised, a person must or willfully give the funds he provides to the terrorist organization so that he can commit the crime of financing terrorism. Here, a person's intentional act of aiding terrorist organizations or terrorists is punishable. Whether the fund was used to commit a crime does not matter. By providing this fund intentionally and willingly, the individual has made it clear that he has the will to finance terrorism. In order for these people to be punished, it does not matter whether the aid was used by the organisation. It is sufficient for crime to be funded willingly and knowing that it will be used in acts of terrorism. In addition, this fund does not need to be used in a concrete act of terrorism. The sentence on whether the funds will be used was added to this declaration in order to meet the terms of the contract, as it was passed in the third article of the United Nations contract. The ruling, however, is punishable as a member of the organization, knowing that all or in part anyone will be used to commit terrorist crimes in the first verse of Article 8 of our current law. Even if it is not used, the perpetrator will be punished in the same way. Since there is no moral element of crime in the case of aid without being known as a terrorist organization or terrorist who has been funded, there will be no crime defined in Article 4 of the bill. Therefore, this issue is very clear and clear. Of course, the second issue: the freeze of assets has been made as an administrative measure. Given that the freezing of property is a temporary and urgent measure, it is imperative that terrorist funds establish an administrative mechanism in an emergency that will not be allowed to be disposed of. Thus, as in many countries, such as the United States, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Britain, Spain, Switzerland, Italy, Canada, there has been an administrative mechanism in our country that will ensure that its process is carried out quickly. The adoption of your assets to the Council of Ministers, an administrative board, is not incompatible with our constitutional system, as the Court of State's Court of State ruled on the issue. In Article 35 of the Constitution, it has been established that everyone has the right to property, but that right can be limited to the law for the sake of public interest. According to this verdict, restrictions on property rights are considered legitimate in cases of public benefit by the administration. As a matter of fact, there are regulations in various laws that allow the administration to intervene in property rights. The general arrangement in this regard is found in Article (1) of Article 18 of the Law on Crimes 5326. According to this, it can only be decided if the property of the object of the crime is taken into public by the process or by the matter of the crime. The third article of the Law (3) states that the property can be seized by the relevant public institution and its organisation until the decision on the adoption of property is finalised. In this regard, various laws have envisioned the sanction of seizure or publicisation of property in exchange for crimes. However, there is an arrangement in our legislation that allows the administration to take over in cases of suspicion of crime. In Article 7 of the bill, reasonable doubt exists as to the fact that funding or financing of illegal verbs and terrorism has been carried out in connection with the assets found in Turkey; it is arranged in this law that the person, organisation or organisation may file a criminal complaint against the republic's chief prosecutorship -- i.e. its relevant -- in order to implement the provisions of the Law on Criminal Responsibility concerning confiscation on the issues related to the property found in Turkey. According to the bill, the decision to freeze property is only possible in two cases. First, the United Nations Security Council decisions. These decisions are already binding for our country and must be implemented without delay. This is a requirement of international contracts -- as I said -- that we are on the basis of Article 90 of our Constitution. Here, especially since it is necessary to be carried out without delay, this task has been given to the Council of Ministers, which is an administrative mechanism instead of the judicial authorities. Again, the demand for ice cream made by foreign governments... we actually brought in very important businesses with this law. One of these: the Council of Ministers has discretion. Second: The principle of reciprocity will be considered with the interests of our country. Third, those countries must report the reason for their demands. Besides, as a country, we can demand collateral for damages, and if the investigation is not launched within a year, then, again, this freeze decision can be lifted. Any action of the administration, you know, is open to judgment. In this regard, there is no breach with the Constitution. My time is very limited, but I must say this bill, by establishing a balance between human rights, the rule of law and security, is to strengthen our country's hand in the fight against terrorism, to meet the requirements of international contracts that we side with, and to meet our international obligations.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0051par0546	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. We didn't give you an exception because we didn't do it to anyone. This is Mr. Ismail Kashdemir of Çanakkale.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0052par0550	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the bill of law on the financing of terrorism. I hereby salute our General Assembly. Mr. President, we all know that the terror problem is a problem that threatens the security of the entire world. Now terrorism is no longer a local problem, it's become a global threat. It is inevitable that all countries have a common attitude, a common stance, a common stance towards terror and terrorism, the common enemy of humanity's peace and security. Our country, however, is the head of countries that suffer the most from terrorism and terrorism. Our country's involvement in the fight against terrorism, a common enemy of all mankind, is a necessity born of both human and conscience and international obligations. The Republic of Turkey is a proud and respected member of the globalized world. He feels responsible, as always, at the point of fulfilling his commitments. (Pacta sund servanda, or loyalty in the covenant, is one of the most fundamental principles of international law. In recent years, the United Nations, responsible for the security of the world because of the growing acts of terrorism, felt the need to make a decision. On 9/12/999, the International Convention on the Protection of Terrorism was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly as the first and most important international contract for the fight against terrorism financing. The contract was adopted by our country by Law No. 4738, dated 10/1/2002 and was published in the Official Gazette 1/3/2002. So, by the constitution, it's become part of our internal law. The 90th article of our Constitution is the rule of the law of international agreements adopted according to the law. The most important measures needed to be taken during the fight against terrorism should no doubt come first to prevent financing of terrorism. With this action, there is no question that necessary measures must be taken regarding those who provide funding for terrorism. The detection of terrorist organisations' funding resources and the taking of effective measures related to these resources are crucial to the discovery and collapse of the structure of terrorist organisations. In addition, it is no doubt that the freezing of the assets of those who support terrorist organisations and members of the terrorist organization will greatly limit the mobility of terrorist organisations. For this reason, various contracts in various international institutions, particularly the United Nations, have been issued concerning the prevention of financing terrorism, and various recommendations have been made. These contracts and recommendations are subject to some obligations to the entity's governments. The bill, which requires that we become a majority of the international legislation on this issue, should first be evaluated at this minimum for the transfer of obligations to internal law. Turkey is also a party to the Council of Europe's Convention on Anti-Terrorism. The United Nations Security Council also has decisions 1267 and 1373, which are binding to prevent financing terrorism. The Financial Action Task Force, which was established within the OECD, is undoubtedly a requirement for the Law Bill on the Prevention of Terrorism that we are discussing, given FATF's recommendations. The bill aims to ensure more effective fight against financing terrorism and terrorism and to determine the procedures and foundations for the freezing of assets in order to prevent financing terrorism, by fulfilling our obligations due to international contracts. This bill has been discussed in the internal commission, in the lower commission, and in the Justice Commission, all political party representatives have contributed to the bill, expressing their valuable views on the bill. At the same time, representatives of the government, representatives of the relevant ministry and institution and scientists have made valuable contributions to the draft talks by holding talks and expressing their views. As a result of their talks, all commissions have made their decision that the bill should be legalized and have written their reports. When all commission reports are reviewed, it is clear that the bill's law is in our country's best interest. It's the common opinion of everyone who is a bad thing about terrorism and terror, who threatens all of humanity, and who our country is a terror. So in order for terrorism to be prevented, the financing of terrorism must also be prevented, and I think that's our common opinion. It's natural to think separately about it in ways and fundamentals, and that's the need and beauty of democracy. But the fact remains that the time has come for this bill to be passed, even late. All issues that may raise doubts about the bill have been discussed in commissions and subcommittees, and will now be discussed in our General Assembly. One of the most important criticisms in the bill is that decisions on freezing property should be a judicial decision. The freeze of assets is a precautionary measure of its legal nature. You don't have to confuse the ice cream decision with the sabbatical. Therefore, the decision to freeze property is not necessarily mandatory by judicial decision. The evaluation commission is an administrative unit. According to our constitution, the judiciary for all actions and procedures of the administration is clear. There is no doubt that decisions on freezing the administrative decision of his property will be subject to administrative judicial supervision. Therefore, as an administrative measure, the freeze of property is not to be excluded from judicial control. Another criticism of the bill is that property rights are restricted. It is important to remember that our constitution cannot be used as a violation of its public interest, as a matter of command. There is no doubt that the decision to freeze the assets that have been used in the financing of terrorism has been preferred by public interest. We all know that a property right that harms another is not protected by universal law and the Constitution. Therefore, property rights are not an unlimited space of freedom. Therefore, the use of property rights may be restricted to prevent financing terrorism. This is a legal matter. So when property rights and public interest conflict, it's a legal fact that public benefit will be preferred. Both the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution do not respond to the abuse of fundamental rights and freedoms, and according to this, it considers it legitimate to limit property rights to prevent terrorism and financing. The Council of Ministers has no obligation to accept all demands of foreign states. The Council of Ministers has the authority to appreciate this. It is possible that the motive of the request is not sufficient to be denied or asked for sufficient justification. As the Council of Ministers evaluates it, it is possible that the country's interests first look at the state's attitude towards us - the basis of reciprocity (reciprocity). After the ice cream decision has been made, the freeze decision can be lifted if the investigation is not launched within a year. According to this, the executive decision to freeze will be prevented from being long-term. The implementation of the UN Security Council's freeze decisions towards financing terrorism by the Council of Ministers is required by the 90th Amendment of our Constitution. This matter has been decided by the State Attorney's Offices and found in accordance with the law. Because of the supply and the reasons we've discussed above, we feel that the law on the Protection of Terrorism is necessary and important in fulfilling our international obligations. Dear lawmakers, we, as a nation and country, are the ones who suffer from terrorism and terrorism. We think terrorism is one of the greatest dangers in mankind's future, so we think it should be avoided anywhere in the world. With the implementation of this bill and the measures to be taken, we have the idea that a more successful fight will be fought against the terror that is headed by our country, that the terror problem will serve to end in our country. Therefore, I respectfully salute your General Assembly, with the opinion that we are in favor of this bill, that it is primarily necessary to prevent funding from being prevented by terrorism. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0053par0571	Thank you, Mr. Kashdemir. Now, I'm going to go with the question-answer process. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0054par0574	Thank you, Mr. President. The PKK's largest source of revenue is drug trafficking and extortion money from businessmen. In the last five years, what is the estimated amount of money the PKK terror organization has acquired in this direction? What is being done in this way as a government? My second question is: do you intend to make a new legal arrangement for drug trafficking and substance abuse? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0055par0578	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0056par0579	Mr. Secretary, in this law, the matter of finalizing the court order has not been cleared. Mehmet Haberal and Bedrettin Dalan are currently on charges of terrorism. After this law is passed, will the possessions of both Haberal and Bedretttin Dalan be confiscated?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0055par0580	Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0057par0581	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, everyone's arguing about a peace process in Turkey. While everyone in this country is conducting a debate on the solution to the Kurdish problem, we're talking about the financing law of terrorism, and we're including TMK. Now, that's a serious problem. Does the government in particular have a policy or a project to remove this TMK (especially the fourth judicial package) or re-organise it according to democratic standards)? Otherwise, it would mean suppressing all social opposition and pressuring everyone for economic genocide in a place where everyone gets into this terrorist bag. So rather than view it as just a project the European Union wants, it will actually be used for the conflict in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0055par0584	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0058par0585	Thank you, Mr. President. There is no way to prevent terrorism by negotiating, negotiating with the heads of the terrorist organization. Terror is prevented by an effective and comprehensive struggle. I don't think the government's terrorist organization has fought effectively with domestic and international financial resources. An important source of revenue for terrorist organisations besides fuel, drugs, cigarettes and arms trafficking is the counterfeit invoice trade. Is there an effective study, detection, and data that the Finance Ministry and its relevant institutions have obtained? Is there a terrorist, a printing press that's been identified for the counterfeit bill trade? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0059par0588	Mr. Sakek... no. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0060par0590	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary if you could share with us a piece of data about the PKK's financing of the terrorist organization for domestic drugs, human trafficking and cigarette smuggling. There's a case going on in the United States of New York, especially in the financing of terrorism, concerning companies associated with PKK terrorist organization in the smuggling of cigarettes. Are you aware of such a case? Have you considered interfering?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0059par0591	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0061par0592	Thank you, Mr. President. There are scientists who support this bill. I have a book on criminal organizations, Professor Dr. Izzet Ozgenc, page 159, which I read to you exactly: ▪The Bill of Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism is not prepared for what the Republic of Turkey needs in the context of fighting terrorism. The bill is a text imposed on Turkey by the United States of America. Can you show me the scientific basis for this? Number two: Although the 88th Article of the Anti-Terror Law contains text on the financing of terrorism, although it is not needed, there are all arguments in the law as well.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0062par0596	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0063par0597	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, given that the terrorist organisations in our country, especially the PKK, provide a significant portion of their financial resources from countries in the European Union, will European countries seize the property of the PKK after this arrangement? A second question: How many organisations or individuals have been claimed by Turkey so far during the EC PARTY, which came to power after the provision for the prevention of terrorism in 2002? Is there any person or organization that the Prime Minister vouches for in this context? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0064par0600	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0065par0601	Mr. Secretary, you continue to paint pink paintings in the economy as well as in every field, and according to you, it's all very rosy, but in Turkey, families are torn apart because of the injustice of income distribution and often suicides. One was just about to happen outside the Capitol door. A 19 - year - old boy had given up hope of life, his family was about to commit suicide at the Capitol gate because of the drowning, the power outage, the foreclosure. Do you ever hold yourself responsible for these suicides? When you go to bed in the evening, does your conscience rest in peace?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0064par0602	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0066par0603	Thank you, Mr. President. Under this agreement, how many people have been identified and confiscated from the PKK's terrorist organization? Is there such information, such a document? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0067par0606	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0068par0607	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Article 5 of the law says the decision of the United Nations Security Council to freeze the property of the person and organisations listed in Resolution 1267 will be carried out immediately. As you know, the Al-Qaeda front associated with Al-Qaeda and the al-Qaeda elements, which are said to be fighting for freedom by you, are causing civil war in Syria today, and your government provides weapons support, logistical support for these organizations. This is against Resolution 1267. After this law has been passed, do you intend to cut back on your support for the terrorist elements in Syria? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0069par0610	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0070par0611	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: For several days, there have been allegations in the press that the leader of the terrorist organization has been taken to Erbil. What is the accuracy of these allegations? That's my first question. My second question is that the American Ambassador has been very critical of your government, which has been shown to the press and has always supported it. Will there be any sanction from your government in the face of these criticisms?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0071par0614	Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0072par0615	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a board formed with this law. This board is also given specific rights and is given a chance to make certain decisions, but when we look at the part of the decisions on the judges held with the CMC, there is a strong suspicion of crime and evidence that these decisions can only be seized, confiscated, or sanctioned. However, do you find it in line with the CMC that the board can be seized without any restrictions?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0071par0617	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0073par0618	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on 29 November 2012, we asked the Prime Minister a question, and we briefly said: "Black money is used in financing terrorism, and in recent days, you have run a campaign to bring gold investments into the economy." We asked you a question, "Can these gold gold be used to finance terrorism?" And you said, "The Prime Minister sent you -- through you -- and you said: "The number of information on gold deposits is not in our database." I mean, how are you going to stop funding terrorism when there's nothing in your database?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0071par0620	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0621	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start by saying that we respect the sensitivity of all of our friends in the human rights framework of this bill, but let me make it very clear to you that if the people in Turkey commit the crime of financing terrorism in Turkey, meri legislation continues, there will be no administrative decision here, so there will be no judicial process. Here -- just to explain one situation -- I'll come to the questions -- freeze decisions, but already binding are the decisions made by the United Nations Security Council. The Council of Ministers has already issued 14 decrees, and we have to implement them; there is no alternative to that. Now it's just coming up as a new issue: to meet the demands of other countries. And here I need to underline some of our other friends. For one thing, it's a matter of the Council of Ministers' discretion. Our country's interests will be taken care of, so it's very important. The principle of reciprocity will be considered, so if a Europe or another country does not support us in this regard, we will, of course, consider it. Again, as I said, there will be collateral for the risk of future settlement. The motive, of course, will be sufficient. Now, about the questions... let me tell you, of course, that the data on the PKK's funding resources has been asked in many questions, including drug trafficking and other areas. We obviously don't have any data on that. So the MASAK, of course, has been working that way, but we don't have any official, definitive data on this. Now, after this law, there is no way to freeze the assets of a Turkish citizen, Haberal or anyone else. Loud and clear, if Turkish citizens are involved in the financing of terrorism in Turkey, whatever our legal system is currently predicting will be valid and the judicial process will take place. In an executive decision, if any of our citizens are involved in financing terrorism in Turkey, it will not be possible to freeze their property without a legal system, a judicial process.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0075par0626	But he didn't say that, sir. Speaking for the AKP Group, he said that if the crime was committed there, it could be confiscated.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0627	It's just that this executive decision... or rather, the Evaluation Commission, will press charges against the prosecution if necessary, but in the end, this decision will be made by the courts... and now the courts... is already defined by the Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law. That, of course, can be decided by court order.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0075par0628	You're saying it's about the residents from abroad in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0629	There may be demands from foreigners, demands from foreign countries concerning the residents of Turkey. As soon as the Evaluation Commission here doesn't decide, the Evaluation Commission will submit its opinion to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers considers the cause of that country, the principle of reciprocity, the country...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0075par0630	So there's no judge thing there.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0631	Sure.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0075par0632	No, it's okay.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0633	But all decisions of the Council of Ministers are open to the judiciary. But there's also a decision from the State Department that says the Council of Ministers is in charge of this matter.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0076par0634	You're already removing the 8th article.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0635	Mr. Tuncel, of course, we are in constant effort to improve the standards of our democracy. This law will have no intention of suppressing the social opposition, nor will it have anything to do with implementing it. Again, there was a question here about the counterfeit bill trade. In this regard, both the Tax Control Board and the Will of Finance are struggling most effectively. But the figures of its size associated with the terrorist organization, as I said, don't exist. At the same time, the Evaluation Commission will again be able to propose that the Council of Ministers, of course, demand that terrorists in foreign countries be frozen. This law brings us this opportunity. So it strengthens our hand in terms of desiccating the financing of terrorism. Let me put it this way. Dear friends, Mr. Sky said that everything in the economy is made to look like a rose. There is absolutely no such thing. As our country, of course, there are areas where we make progress, which are important successes, but structurally, there are a lot of problems that we've been working on, and in Turkey, not everything is a rosebully. I've never made a claim like that. Our Minister of Justice has already responded to the claim that the leader of the terrorist organization is in Erbil. That's out of the question. I have no knowledge of the statement made by the ambassador to the United States. But if there is, of course, an answer or any application needed, I'm sure the State Department will do it in the best possible way. Again, it has been used here as a statement that the board, the Evaluation Commission, has no boundaries and can make an ice-cream decision. That's out of the question. The Evaluation Commission can only make a recommendation to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers will make an assessment in that framework. All decisions of the Council of Ministers are open to the judiciary. There is a question as to how many people who have financed the PKK terror organization have been seized? I don't have any data in front of me, but if it comes later, I'll share it with you. Again, here we consider Al Qaeda elements in Syria as terrorists, and it is certainly not possible for our country to look at them as freedom fighters, and it is not possible for us to support them as governments. Mr. Secretary, this is the first time you've said anything against the government, congratulations. Very good, congratulations, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0077par0645	Mr. Original, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0646	Therefore, there is no such thing as a withdrawal of support after this law. Again, here was a question about the gold deposit. Dear friends, the gold is of course being held under a pillow by our citizens as a means of saving. According to some estimates, there are estimates that 280 billion, some estimates, around $300 billion, is a stockpile of gold that our citizens hold in that sense. It is true that this gold is, of course, brought into the economy, and the steps taken in our country in this sense, by mobilising the resources of Turkey, which are now being launched, into investment, into employment, but the financing of terrorism is a separate issue. Once, here, as I said, all security agencies, MASAK, the National Intelligence Agency are already doing the necessary work in this direction. If there's any use of these resources in the financing of terrorism, or if there's any doubt, I'd like to say again that this bill was already brought to that end because it strengthens, strengthens the mechanism in this sense, strengthens our hands both outside and inside. And maybe the Finance Ministry doesn't have that data at the time, but I'm not saying there isn't that data in the system. Of course there's this data in the system. The relevant institutions, based on suspicion, on information or on information, will be able to study it, of course. I would like to rephrase: There is no new authority for the Council of Ministers for the financing of terrorism committed in Turkey. The provisions of the Penal Code will continue to be carried out here. I want to underline that. So, sir, this is a fortune tax, it's a seizure. If a person living in Turkey commits the crime of financing terrorism in Turkey, neither this council nor the Council of Ministers have the authority to freeze goods, this law does not bring it. As I said, the provisions of the existing Penal Code are valid. However, if this board makes that determination, it brings a complaint to the prosecution, of course.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0078par0650	How is he going to file a complaint against his assets?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0074par0651	If the financing of terrorism, as I said, is committed in our country...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0079par0653	Yes, thank you, we're out of time.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0080par0654	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I have something to say.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit01spe0079par0655	I'm sorry, I can't. We did the QA. Now I'll take care of my business, then. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0079par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 11th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first word on the first chapter is Mr. Ömer Süha Aldan. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0081par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, this bill is actually from the 23rd term. If it doesn't get passed by February 22, 2013, we'll be blacklisted, and we'll have difficulty with economic credibility. Did the government know about this time in advance? Of course he does. Well, I'm going to try to assess what this bill is and why it's been expected all this time. Fitch, an international rating agency in November 2012, raised Turkey's credit rating from foreign currency to BB+ to BBB- The point of Fitch's note report was that Turkey had not fulfilled its homework on money laundering and financing terrorism, and therefore would be blacklisted. The FATF, or Fiscal Action Task Force, is an intergovernmental organization that operates within the OECD and is based on the fight against money laundering. Our country is one of the members of this organization. In recent years and especially on September 11, 2001, the attacks on Al Qaeda's World Trade Center resulted in a new concept, which is the financing of terrorism. Turkey has been fighting terrorism for years. So we are one of the countries that should be most sensitive to the financing of terrorism. Besides, after the 9/11 attacks, we met the necessary obligations within the lists set by the United Nations Security Council. In fact, we all witnessed what happened with Yasin Al-Qaeda on the list. Why is such an arrangement being urged and even threatened by a country in the target of terrorism? Did Turkey really agree to all outside requests? Well, that's the truth of the matter. The problem lies between the current power and the countries of the United States and the European Union at the eyes of terrorist organisations. Of course, it is necessary to consider the issue by involving Israel. Clearly, the problem is the separation of Hamas and the Muslim Brothers to describe their organisation. Because Hamas, according to our government, is a political party that has been elected and has not adopted terrorism as a method. Hamas, however, is a terrorist organisation for the European Union countries. In this regard, the Muslim brothers should discuss their position. Thus, demands for these organisations are not met by the current government. That's why the bill has been kept on the shelf until today. Now that this bill has arrived, can we say that Hamas and the Muslim brothers have taken priority over their ruling economic concerns and submitted to the demands of the West? The Muslim Brotherhood has played an active role in the so-called Arab Spring period and has been in power in some countries. What is evident is that the relationship between the organisation and the Western world at this time, which means that for years the Western structure has suddenly changed. Tunis, Egypt, Libya, stopped his actions in Qatar and Jordan, a satellite of the United States, but the lion was slaughtered in Syria. Hamas, in fact, is the Palestinian branch of the Muslim brothers, but Hamas, who fought against Israel's aggressive attitude and the inhuman embargo against Gaza, has never been tamed. In short, the Muslim brothers' work is done. They are now moderate, or rather obedient Islamists. All that remains is to tame Hamas. Because in the new Middle East, Hamas became the key structure in the search for a formula to comfort Israel. Today, money is the most important means of political oppression. One of the ways to take Hamas (Hamas) is to control financial resources, but the view of the AKP's power on Hamas (Hamas) has been created as a reason to prevent the financial control mechanism from functioning. For this reason, the AKP's power has been forced to submit to the will of global rulers. News leaked to the Middle East media on January 6, 2013 suggested the Israeli embargo had been lightened in Gaza, and Hamas would be removed from the international terrorist organisation list. Following these statements, it is meaningful to bring the bill on the shelf to the General Assembly. Thus, Turkey is also wanted to be transformed into part of the work in the process of harmonisation of Hamas (Hamas) to Israel and the West. However, if this bill is adopted, there is a danger to power: if Hamas is not off the list of terrorist organizations and the government is shy about freezing his assets, he will suffer the economic wrath of the West, and if he does so, he will have sold Hamas and Gaza in some way. In today's world and especially in an environment where you mortgage your country's economic independence, there is no point in talking about my brother, crying, being a jerk, and mourning the Gazan children. And on the Day when some of them will come forth, and they will try to discipline you with money, and you will submit yourselves to compulsions. That's what's going on. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if we were to make a general assessment of 11 articles in the first part of the law: we are witnessing that the AKP government is doing something for domestic politics while global demands are being met at the same time. Demands for the freezing of property by the FATF once are the same in the framework of the International Contractal Against the financing of the United Nations terrorism and in the subsection (1) of Article 3 of the bill's third joke (a) and (c)bents. In addition, the conditions specified in (a) and (c)bends are based on concrete facts, aimed at serious crimes. However, acts considered a terrorist offense under Article B, under Article 3713, are also part of the bill. However, the definition of terrorism found in Article 3713 in Article 1 of the Law is highly uncertain, and is a provision that will lead to abuse, at least broad interpretation, and direct and unfair intervention of property of individuals, even with an unsigned tip. Even though it is not associated with a specific verb in Article 4 of the draft, the description of its statement contains uncertainty. Any money collected under social activity is likely to be evaluated within this scope. In fact, what needs to be done is to remove Article 3 of the bill from the draft of Article (1) (b), Article 4 (a) and Article 7 (a) and Article 18 (a). In this way, concerns about our internal law will end significantly. Let's not forget that there's always a chance that a bad law will turn like a weapon to those who vote for it. It is no more than appreciation for the right to freeze the government's right to freeze its assets in a year's time, which is part of the 6th Amendment. The right to appreciation of the administrative mechanism for the existence of reasonable reasons involved in Article 7 of the bill is a conflict with the principle of separation of forces. It is also clear that the release of ice cream decisions in the Official Gazette instead of notifications is in violation of the notification legislation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the former CIA president and the chief of staff who came to Turkey in July 2011, had announced hope that the bill for the prevention of terrorism would be immediately discussed and legalised, and Ricciardone, the US Ambassador to Ankara, said that this regulation, which is crucial to the financing of terrorism, would be legalised. So we want that diplomatic statement in Turkish, friend, that's it! However, the field of application has been expanded with abstract concepts, facing domestic politics as global demand is being met. So, if the draft is legalized, with the labeling of the terrorist organization, any real and legal personality that is opposed can be an ice cream issue, I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0082par0024	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Sırrı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0083par0027	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. In fact, today, the law that we've discussed here has been imposed on us as an international, here, an imposition of the United Nations. But, for the first time, we see here that none of the U.N. member states have legalized it without touching that text. But in our country, we know very well what we're really trying to do here, including the Anti-Terror Act, by doing the opposite, which is the musical trick. Because this country has come this far for years with these policies, with these laws. Now, today, the people who brought this law here have actually been victims of these laws, similar laws in the past. Now that our friends have mentioned it, it's the law of discipline. This law is a different version of the property tax in 1942. In 1942, we witnessed the same talks in this Parliament, listening to the conversations of different groups here, and I can clearly say the name of this law, just as in 1921, it is the law today that wants to Turkishise all capital, whatever understanding in the 1921s locked all peoples into one identity, creating single identity. Dear friends, see, in the 17th chapter of the book Prince Machiavelli, titled cruelty, "people may forget the deaths of their parents, but they will never forget the possessions and possessions taken from their hands, and they will have feelings of vengeance. Now, look, there are laws like this in this geography. In the 1990s, without these laws, Kurdish businessmen who were wealthy were executed, killed, seized their property, property, and organized in the depths of the state. But 2013, now, using this contract in the United Nations as an excuse to bring a new law here... yes, we have made it clear as a group: bring the text of the United Nations, translate it, and we will sign it. But if you bring in the Anti-Terror Law, the Anti-Terror Law is open, the scissors are open, you can include anyone you want. We also know how the generals, who later said, "This law is ineffective when the Anti-Terror Law has been passed from the past until now, even when the Anti-Terror Law has been passed. " You don't need much for that; you'll find a confessor, and you'll be able to seize the property and property of a wealthy man. If this law had been legalized in the Ergenekon operation, the Republican People's Party would have been seized with the money caught in the vault of Ankara MP Sinan Aygün, and Sinan Aygun would not be here today, he would not be able to continue his trade today. And what is it you want to do now? There's a Kurdish saying, there's no Minister here, he'd know better. It says "x." So the poor man, beyond the water, this side of the water, it doesn't matter. We are the poor of this country. But with this law, you want to discipline Kurdish businessmen so far. That's what we're saying, loud and clear, you're training Kurdish businessmen. You know the conditions in the region very well from us, and you are seriously disturbed by Kurdish capital, and for that, there are discrimination policies here, there are singularization here. And here I am calling a historic call to the main opposition party: look, there are discrimination policies here. This can come back to you tomorrow. In fact, we're all traveling together on this bill on a Turkish ship. If the main opposition party doesn't take this to the Constitutional Court, our two hands will be on their side, because there are discrimination policies here, and these policies have been implemented from the past to now, and this law is like a ruthless weapon in the hands of political power because you have declared all people from the Anti-Terror Code to seven to seventy terrorists in one region. Look, what it says here is, if this bill is legalized like this, opposition financial resources....... even the opposition press can get a cut of it as a whole. Third, the Council of Research on Financial Crimes says that this commission under MASAAK will be tied to MASAK. But MASAK has clearly placed its stance since the first day. What does MASAK say? It is clear and clear that some separatist groups today want to achieve their political goals by forcing them to use the terrorist organization channel on the one hand, on the other hand, to use political channels under the control and control of the terrorist organization. Such terrorist organisations can also access funds to support their political wings. For example, people who have a say in the local government, who are closely connected with the terrorist organization, may be able to provide support for the terrorist organization in various ways. It says here: You can be part of the law with the fact that a person who lost a relative of the terrorist organization is employed in a municipality. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the orator. Now, I'm telling you, if there's been a 30-year war in this region and in this country, and it's costing 50,000 lives, if people's villages have been burned, there's been 1700 unsolved murders, and anyone close to them is either in prison, or in the mountains, or in the ground, and we have a reality, but you, as a municipality, if you hire one of these people, or one of those people in the mountains, you'll be condemned by this law, and you'll be immediately subject to the property of your property, and you'll be subject to the property of your property. This isn't just for BDP people. Look, those operations against the Republican People's Party's municipalities in Eskişehir and Antalya may result in a conviction by the same law. Now, while MASAK has expressed its opinion on this matter so clearly and clearly, while we have created its infrastructure before the law has been passed, you have no right to say, "Sir, we guarantee it." You have no right to say that because there is no guarantee at all, nor in history, nor today. Yes, every war transfers wealth. In fact, a fortune is being transferred in this war. Look, in the 1932s, in the 1933s, Stalin did the same thing to the Ukrainians, committed genocide, and then followed by an economic crisis in property. The same policies were applied to Jews during Hitler's time. Now, I'm going to tell you, you're going to react again, but unfortunately, that's what happened to the Armenians in the Ottomans. After the Republic, a law was passed under the name of property tax. When they passed that law, clearly and clearly, then Prime Minister Şükrü Saraçoglu was saying: "We will Turkishise capital. We have all witnessed how much suffering the property tax has caused this people. 1,229 people were taken from the property tax to Ashkale. 329 of them lost their lives there. Later, those people were brought here and even worked at the Youth Park in Ankara. Who were they? He was Jewish businessmen, scientists, poets, literaryists, and they were all victims in the process. Some have gone mad, some have died in many hospitals of Europe and France, Paris. Now, you're doing the same policy here against your opponents. This law is law of the blood; especially when the peace process is discussed, if you have brought it back to the Anti-Terror Law, then you must reconsider your peace policies. There's no good in this law. This law, as I said, is the law of the blood. This country has met the law so many times that none of it has been a cure. I refer this law to your consciences. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0084par0041	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0085par0042	Mr. President, I want to make a point. There has never been a period in the history of the Turkish nation and the state that compares Hitler to the Nazis. It's a myth.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0084par0043	On behalf of the nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0086par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0084par0045	Sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0086par0046	Let's get him on record. We can't solve these problems without facing our history. What I'm saying is not a thing. It happened in the Ottoman period, and it happened in the Republic. Let them tell me what an asset tax is. We don't need words anymore.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0084par0048	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Elazig MP Enver Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0087par0051	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the 1st chapter of the Bill of Law on the Financing of Terrorism, 409 rows. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, without a doubt, we are one of the best-known countries and nations in the world who know what terrorism and terrorism means. We're a country that's suffered a lot in the last 30 years, killed 40,000 people in terror, spent hundreds of billions of dollars fighting terrorism. We, the National Movement Party, support this arrangement in the interest of our nation, as in all matters concerning the security of our country. I'd like to express that we are opposed to negotiating with the terrorist, as we are supporting the anti-terrorism. We see that negotiating with the terrorist can't solve the problem, that terrorism can't be reduced by negotiations and opening policies with the terrorist, that despite all the arrangements, there are increasing demand for terrorists day by day. Interviewing a terrorist organization with a weapon, consultations with a life-old terrorist leader is not the normal virtue of the fight against terrorism, precious lawmakers. The fight against terrorism is a serious business, there is no fight against terrorism by secretly meeting with an organization with weapons, by passing the legal arrangements on the terrorist organization's list through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, by allowing them to act because their demands were delayed, by watching them martyr our soldiers, our police. The PKK's terrorist organisation needs at least $150m a year to carry out its bloody actions and meet the needs of its militants. In fact, we also know that the financial size of the PKK's terrorist organization today is expressed by billions of dollars. Most of the 150 million dollars needed by the organisation are covered by areas such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, human trafficking, tea and cigarette smuggling, with organised criminal activities. The PKK's terrorist organisation, which sees drug trafficking as an easy and profitable source of financing, operates professionally in all areas of drug trafficking; the commission for drug trafficking and trafficking is active in the phases of drug production, drug trafficking and distribution of drugs. The 370 operations carried out between 1984 and 2012 have been found to have been involved in drug trafficking. In operations conducted against the separatist terrorist organisation PKK, 4.253 kilograms of heroin, 33,290 kilograms of marijuana, 5 million 972, 747 Indian cannabis plants, 4 million 305,000 kilograms of morphine, 710 kilograms of cocaine, 317,412 synthetic drug tablets, 26.190 litre acetic anhydride. The PKK's terrorist organisation has now become known as the world's foremost drug trafficking organisation. Dear lawmakers, this law has been laid to ensure that property is frozen by the United Nations Security Council and foreign states and our country to prevent financing terrorism in order to ensure the implementation of the International Contractformation of Terrorism in 1999 and harmonisation of contract provisions. The fact that this arrangement is now coming to the General Assembly in history is based on the fact that our country is one of 34 members of the international organisation called the Financial Action Task Force, whose short name is FATF, due to its failure to fulfil its obligations to financing terrorism and preventing money from becoming a member of the Financial Action Task Force. According to the Financial Action Task Force report, our country is not the standard in the fight against money laundering and financing terrorism. There are problems in 10 of the 16 set standards. ) You will address these problems or pass this law -- which we have discussed in February -- through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Otherwise, you will be removed from the Financial Action Task Force. This arrangement on their statements has been brought to the General Assembly. When we look at what is being brought in with this new arrangement, it is seen that a commission under the freeze of assets can be established under the commission and that those reported to him about terrorism can be frozen by an administrative decision without the ruling decision of the firm's assets. It is understandable for us that in 2002, the International Charter Against the Financing of Terrorism, which we agreed to in 2002, was delayed by 11 years in our internal law, because on the one hand, there is a terror threat like the PKK at the head of our country, and they support this terrorist organization from many European countries and put it on the terrorist organisation list. Given that this arrangement will be of more use to the United States and the European Union countries than to us, on the other hand, it will be understood why this law has been delayed for 11 years, when it is predicted that our national interests could be damaged by this arrangement. The key question under this arrangement is: Will the United States and the European Union carry out its responsibilities in order to prevent the financing of the PKK's terrorist organization? Will these financial resources of terrorist organisations be cut off, given that an important part of terrorist organisations, such as 80 per cent of their financial resources, is provided from European countries? Once again, given that most of the weapons and ammunition available to terrorist organisations are European, won't the European states cut off money, weapons, media and all media support to the PKK terrorist organization? It's also very important that these are answered. Dear lawmakers, with this arrangement, for the first time, there will be a precautionary decision on Turkish law without a judge's ruling. This arrangement will not be sufficient to seize PKK separatist terrorist organisation's property abroad, money and resources. This law is a law that is at risk of being used for political purposes. Today, there is concern that the government may also abuse this arrangement, given its view of the Chief of Staff as the leader of the organization. In the fourth judicial package, you say the idea will not be a crime unless it involves violence. As in propaganda, we really benefit from you expressing from this platform whether or not you would take the financing of terrorism as a crime. As a result, we consider that this arrangement is necessary, but it will have no significant impact on the seizure of the financial resources of the PKK terrorist organisation, which is Turkey's main problem. We say this arrangement is necessary, but it's not enough. Again, we support this arrangement because we hope it will contribute to the prevention of terrorism, and I hereby salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0088par0062	Thank you, Your Grace. First word for the individuals, Mr. Kamer, the member of the Tunceli MP, is in Youth. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0089par0066	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the First Amendment on the financing of terrorism in 409 rows. My respects to all of you. Dear lawmakers, of course terror is very important, a very great enemy to humanity. To fight this on every occasion is a way that any wise person would prefer. What is terror? First of all, his description needs to be made clear and clear. The definition of terror made in Article 1 of Law 3713 is very vague, meaningless, in a sense that can be drawn in any direction. Hence, it is very possible to punish everyone with such a meaning. Now, besides that, if there's a healthy, fully independent, justice-compliant judicial system in a country, there's no need for people to doubt it. The security of basic rights and freedoms is judgment. If in a country, the judicial element performs a real, honest, impartial, honorable judicial function, and the political authorities are free to decide on the fundamental rights and freedoms of action, no matter how bad the laws that are made there are, the people who hold the political staff will clear everything. But let's get to Turkey. Look, the WikiLeaks documents indicate that Recep Erdogan had money in Swiss banks.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0090par0069	Talk to the document, talk to the document, don't throw it away!
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0089par0070	Now, this has been reported to the prosecutors. Someone said that Recep Erdoğan had money in Swiss banks. There is an institution called the Financial Crime Research Board (MASAAK). What does a government in a normal state do with responsibility? He'll look into it. Indeed, because the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state; if such money exists, it can be detected, or found. Prosecutors were charged, what did the prosecutor do? Sir, there's no wet signature under this, I don't investigate. It seems that the prosecutor has the money, if he investigates, he will appear to have escaped from the mission.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0091par0071	Talk to the document.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0089par0072	Now, like this, tomorrow, when you give a power over this mentality, there's no judicial system for them to decide in good faith, in law. Now that he's out, he says, "Sir, they've taken the commanders of our army inside." So, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who sent the Undersecretary of Justice to Beşiktas one day and put 464 officers in a room in one hour and had them arrested? Who, who, friends? After that, you make it look like you're going out and confessing. Look, no one buys this, we all know these facts, but you think we're fooling someone, unfortunately. Now, my dear friends, other than that -- in fact, we don't have time -- look, in the time of Bu Tayyip Erdogan and Abdullah Gul, Greece occupied 16 of our men in the Aegean and the Mediterranean, and it also occupied our space of 7,000km in the region of the Mediterranean. Look, I'm reading you the islands of the sheep, Hursit, Fornoz, Donkey, Nergizci, Bulamaç, Kalolimnoz, Goat, Sakarkers, Koçbaba and Adacık, and the Mediterranean island of Gavdos, Dhia, Dionisades, Koufonisi. See, a Greek President goes to an island of ours, attends a cross-throwing ceremony -- and I'm not saying because we don't have a lot of time -- and in the 2010 Progress Report of the European Union, he says: "Turkish planes are flying on Greek islands." But since you took down Turkish air forces in 2010, they no longer report Turkish planes flying over Greek islands in 2011. You all need to know that. Look, until your time, no one has been given a pebble of the Republic of Turkey, but thanks to you, the Greeks have come and occupied our largest islands. Congratulations. Of course, if we had time, I'd also say that in the other thing. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0092par0081	In the name of the individuals, Mr. Ali Ihsan Yavuz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0093par0084	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the first chapter of the Bill of the Law on the Financing of Terrorism, 409 rows. I hereby salute the High Council. Given the international dimensions that terrorism has reached locally and globally, it appears that terrorist organisations need significant funding to sustain and operate their assets and activities. It is also a case where terrorist groups are trying to obtain this financial need through many illegal and legal activities. It is clear that terrorist groups need a large financial power and a very important budget to ensure that a terrorist organisation can establish these financial needs, maintain the existence of an established organisation, and operate in activities. Today, as we regret to inform you, the terrorist organizations have begun to use every means to become a significant financial force, and unfortunately, they have gained an important financial power. This shows that the obstruction of the financing of terrorism is a very life-threatening issue in terms of fighting terrorist organizations, dealing with them and minimizing terrorism. While terrorism has emerged as a global problem, measures have been taken in this sense in the international arena, and international organisations, contracts and studies have begun to concern themselves with the belief that it is almost impossible for governments to deal with this problem alone. It was first included in the purpose of the Financial Action Task Force, founded by G-7 countries in 1989 to prevent money laundering internationally within the OECD, after 11 September 2001, as well as in the fight against the financing of terrorism. Turkey has been a member of the Financial Action Task Force since 24 September 1991. The Financial Action Task Force has begun to develop special recommendations on the financing of terrorism, particularly on the adoption, implementation of UN documents, obstruction of terrorist actions, financing for terrorist organizations, freezing, and permitting terrorism to be financed, and so on. Today, the fight against terrorism is almost on the agenda of the world. The world must face a more effective fight on terrorism, without compromising the democratic, social, political and economic gains that humanity has so far provided. It is almost impossible to fight terrorism effectively by using classical methods in a process where terrorism has gained international dimensions and terrorist organisations have gained significant amounts of financial power. In particular, it has become widely accepted in international studies, as the financial resources of terrorist organisations have been drained. Thus, the fight against the financing of terrorism emerged as the most important element in the fight against terrorism. Mr. President, what we would like to do with this bill is to adapt to the financing of terrorism, which was issued by the United Nations General Assembly on December 9, 1999, on January 10, 2002, with the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by the Council of Ministers' decision on 1st 2002, to be published in the Official Gazette on 1 April 2002, as part of our internal law. This bill has been brought to the agenda of the General Assembly in a very detailed way to determine the implementation of the provisions and demands made by the United Nations Security Council and by foreign states and our country to prevent the financing of terrorism. I wish him well, and I salute the High Council again.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0094par0094	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0095par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it is said that the Commission's decisions will be evaluated in this scope, referred to Article 12271 in Article 128. However, when we look at the law, the final joke of Article 128 is that only the judge can decide whether to confiscate it openly. Since this is the arrangement and there will be no judge on the commission, don't you see it as a contradiction between the CMC and the law you have passed?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0094par0099	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0096par0100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, how many people have been requested under the contract so far, after this contract for the Protection of the United Nations Anti-Terrorism Act came into effect? Has there been a demand for Yasin Al-Qaeda? Mr. Prime Minister Yasin vouched for Al-Qaedi. If so, will this statement be legal and legal? What has been done about this person? Besides, you said it was the principle of reciprocity. Is this reciprocity based on actual or legal? On the other hand, all savings and transactions against the Evaluation Commission's decision are null and void. There is a clause called the provision. I mean, isn't that the way the Evaluation Commission is being rendered nullified against its decisions? What is your purpose here? In addition, can the request for an investigation within the CMK be considered a preventing or waiting reason for prosecutors to investigate the residence within the scope of the CMK?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0097par0106	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0098par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what was the outcome of the examination of Yasin Al-Qaedi by MASAK? As this investigation continues, I vouch for this person. Is his statement changed the course of the investigation and investigation? In what phase is the investigation or investigation? My second question: How much has Turkey spent on asylum seekers from Syria? How much spending is planned in 2013? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0099par0111	Mr. Dinçer... no. Mr. Right... no. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0100par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. On 21 August 2011, Prime Minister Erdoğan addressed the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in which he called the tradesman to court in some cities of our country and called it a tax-paying organization. Do you think it's possible for a terrorist organization to call a citizen to question him, to question him, to press him, to prosecute him, and to see him as a court of law, to be able to provide peace, to prevent terrorism under the rule of a terrorist organization and a government, to stop funding resources? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0101par0117	Mr. Agha... no. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0102par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you just answered the question I asked you, and you said we must have the data. The number of depositors of gold deposits does not exist in the Banking Editing and Control Agency's database. My first question is, is this Mehmet Simsek? My second question: If you were you and you just said this data, why didn't you answer my question? That's why you haven't answered any of my questions, Mr. Secretary, and I have your signed paper.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0103par0123	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0104par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, there is a decision from the Council of Ministers regarding Yasin Al-Qadil. This is about the decision, State Department 10. The Supreme Court has been called off, that's right. However, the State Department made this decision against the administration; the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister appealed, the Finance Minister did not appeal it. However, on September 1, 2006, the Prime Minister's office waived this appeal concerning Al Qadil, and the Foreign Minister waived it. What was the reason for this waiver on September 6, 2006? Where does such a waivement of the Ministry or the Prime Minister's authority regarding Al Qaedi come from, even though the power of power of power of attorney is not in the power of power of power of power of attorney? Isn't that discrimination, kindness, or favor? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0105par0127	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0106par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is the PKK a terrorist organization? If the PKK is a terrorist organization, how will you respond to the European states on the grounds that it has aided or funded this organisation, which is being negotiated by your government today? That's one. Two: Under the UN Security Council's rulings, the Committee of Instructions includes measures related to the alleged financing of terrorism and organizations, which is the point of origin of this law. So, according to the U.N. agreement, is there another unit in the United Nations that has sanctions outside the United Nations Security Council? I'm curious about that, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0107par0131	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0108par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, a recent news report has reported that Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has reached an agreement with the government on its websites. And it predicts three stages. In phase one, the main language defense is the release of ACK prisoners. In the second phase, there is news of Turkey's recognition of the Syrian Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). In the third phase, there are suggestions on the amendment of the Constitution, education and autonomy in the native language. There is news in the public that has been published on PKK's websites concerning the agreement between the government and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Is the content of this report true? Besides, is there or is there not any Turkish island in the Aegean Sea occupied by Greece? If so, would you care to explain which ones this is? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0109par0136	Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0110par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there has been no improvement in the salaries of judges and prosecutors since 2006. That's what I said during the day. After 2006, their salary was said to be reduced by 35 per cent with 2012 values. It is also alleged that the document issued for the signing of the Prime Minister has been revoked after the statement of MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan. We'd appreciate it if you could fill us in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0111par0140	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, of course the decisions made by the Council of Ministers, not against the decisions made by the commission... because the commission does not have the authority to decide whether to freeze, the Commission does technical work, informs the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers makes an executive decision. The Court of Ministers may, of course, file a lawsuit against the decision of the Council of Ministers, so according to the Constitution, all administrative decisions are open to the judiciary. So, in this sense, the commission's work is not already a technical and final work; it's a technical work; it's the Council of Ministers' final decision.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0113par0143	So, does the Council of Ministers consist of judges or judges? That's what we're asking.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0144	Dear friends, this has been taken to the State before. The court has ruled that the Council of Ministers is in charge of this issue. I mean, I'm not saying this; the court needs to be evaluated in this framework because it has previously decided that the Council of Ministers has jurisdiction over this matter. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer Mr. Vural's question. Of course, concerning Yasin Al-Qadil, he has won all the courts. The United Nations withdrew its decision two years ago. Right now, the same person is suing for damages against the United States and against Europe. As far as I know, the United States is in a compromise with him right now, so he's won all the cases he's filed, and they've taken his name off this United Nations resolution list. So, in this sense, I think evaluations of this should be done in this framework. Regarding the same issue, the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is on 24/12/2004 dates and 24/22072. In the verdict of non-obstruction of lu, he concluded that there were no musned criminal elements of the defendants mentioned in the report. There was, of course, a decision. However, as a result, this person's name has been removed from the United Nations list, won courts, not in Turkey, but in the West.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0114par0147	Before he was removed, the Ministry gave up, the Prime Minister gave up.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0148	Therefore, his assessments of this matter are in this framework... Now, what does the principle of reciprocity mean? That's actually a diplomatic term. Reciprocity simply means reciprocity. This term is used to regulate interstate relations, which means that countries offer each other opportunities with equal opportunities. In other words, a country can be described as giving its citizens the same rights as the citizens of the other country, in response to the rights given to them in the other country. This principle can be applied legally or practically.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0115par0150	Let's write it down.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0151	As a bilateral agreement between the two countries can be legally... which is not legally available here. So, to answer your question here, it's not legal text, but it can be built with actual practice. This law gives us the right to actually run the reciprocity system.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0115par0152	You've accepted the law, so you've seen enough.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0153	No, at the moment it would be legal if we made a deal with countries one by one, but since there will be no agreement with all countries one by one right now, we will now have an operational authority for reciprocity within the framework of this law, which will, of course, be taken into consideration of the interests of the country. Now, dear friends, there are many more questions about Yasin Al-Qadil, but as a result, he's been eliminated from the United Nations list, outside and inside, he's won all the cases. I find it useful to express it. Of course, for the PKK's terrorist organization, we've had a lot of initiatives in Europe for it, and it will continue to happen. This law will strengthen our hand. Today, on the FATF General Assembly, if we come out after this law, this country, this country has not met these demands of ours... I think all of this in this practice, I think it will increase pressure, strengthen our hand, in this direction of our laws...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0116par0156	I mean, we haven't had any results so far.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0157	We've got results, we've got files we can't get.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0116par0158	How many people's assets have been seized?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0159	Now, of course, I'm not available for details right now. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0116par0160	No, it's fine if you give me the document later.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0161	No, I'm not, but I'm telling you, there are things that we've accomplished in our initiatives in Europe, and there are things that we've failed at.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0117par0162	Are you receiving a terrorist?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0163	Other than the United Nations Construction Committee, the decisions made by the United Nations -- or rather, other than the United Nations Security Council -- are generally recommended. The decisions made by the United Nations Security Council are binding. So, that's already unanimous, as you know, 15 members. I have to...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0117par0164	Is that the authority of the Board of Directors?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0165	No, I don't think the U.N. Security Council...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0117par0166	But the lists come from the Committee of Compulsors.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0118par0167	And if you two stop talking, it's been a long time.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0168	The Committee of Enforcements does technical work, like our Commission here, and gives it to the Security Council, the Security Council, if there's no vote there, it's not a decision. Again, I'm looking at the statement that our Prime Minister made on August 21, 2011... which means, of course, explaining a current situation... is clear: I mean, it's true that the PKK has been pressuring our tradesman from time to time, but it's also a matter of every aspect of the state's struggle. Terror has a counterterrorism dimension, which the security forces do; it's much larger in counterterrorism; it has a lot of social, political, economic dimensions. We're doing everything we can to combat both terrorism and terrorism as a whole. My assessment of the gold deposit is that, dear friends, I, the National Intelligence Agency, the MASAK or any unit, if there's a process that's suspected of being used in the financing of terrorism, it gets all the data on the process. I couldn't offer it to you at the Treasury Department, or at the BDDK right now, if you're all together asking us for these numbers, because it's not as of right now, but I said that if the government has this data, if there's any suspicious transaction associated with this data, it'll do the same thing. Yeah, I'm the one who answered him. If I had that data, I'd share it with you, so why wouldn't I? I answer most of our friends' questions in the most intimate way ever. Dear friends, the republic's prosecutors are not authorized to investigate the residence here. On the contrary, this process is being strengthened by the Evaluation Commission. The Evaluation Commission, of course, helps by transmitting his work. So there's nothing in it at all. Again, I have evaluated the fate of Yasin Al Qadi. As for the refugees from Syria... do we have a number? How much is spent on asylum seekers from Syria...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0119par0175	Yes, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, there is a human drama in Syria. We've opened our door, we have to open it. So far, $610.5 million has been spent on Syrian refugees.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0120par0178	A million dollars or a million liras?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0179	610 million, 500,000 liras, those numbers are liras. As you can appreciate for 2013, I can't have a guess. Why? Because I can't give you that number because I can't predict how many people, of course, the future, when this problem is going to be solved, when these refugees are going to come back, but it's a fact that what we do is what humanity needs, something we have to do. There's a big problem there. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0121par0182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0122par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0112par0184	By the way, Mr. President, I've got the number on the gold deposit. It's got $10 billion in gold deposits. And as a precious mine, there's a $15.6 billion figure.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0121par0185	Now, everybody's got a book.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0122par0186	No, sir, it's important.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0121par0187	Okay, but the QA is over. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0122par0189	Now, the Minister said: "There is no objection to the report of the Evaluation Commission, but it is the decision of the Council of Ministers to take over." The 10th article, however, says that all savings and transactions are nullified in violation of the freeze order of the property. I say that the settlement and the transaction are null and void. This direct line is the decision of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers making the decision to freeze, the Evaluation Commission reporting only. He's talking about the decision here. So...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0123par0190	Mr. President, when it comes to matter...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0124par0191	The path to court is clear. There's no way to shut it down.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0122par0192	But this arrangement and the process are nullified. What does it mean, Minister?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0125par0193	That's a personal statement.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit02spe0126par0194	I think I'll take a break now. Those of you with the book, please contact the Minister. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Closing Time. 18.31 THIRD STUDIES
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0126par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of Mr. Ali Serindağ and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-vote the motion, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0127par0005	Let's have an electronic vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0126par0006	Mr. Tanal, if you want me to break you, I'm voting electronically, over. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion has been denied, there is enough to decide. We will continue the talks of Bill 409. Commission? Here. The government. Here. It's the 1st draft of the current 409 rows. I propose and recommend that the notice be added to the seizure after the article. Lütfü Türkkan (Alexeli) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0128par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0126par0019	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0129par0020	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0126par0021	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0130par0023	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I believe that the Justice and Development Party government passed the commission long before its love with Imralı, or I don't expect such a law to come during a time when such love sprouted. On the one hand, I can't find the logical explanation for the seizure of PKK's money while discussing what brand of bicycles would be sent to İmralı. I want to talk about something else here today. Last Thursday, I'd like to tell you how inappropriate and unresponsive a number of sentences were made against the descendants of his son, the conqueror from the Balkans and the Caucasus from this bench. Look, they're called sons of conquerors, children of conquered lands. These are the raiders who went there in 1321 to Muslimize and Turkishize the Balkans, under the command of the consul Süleyman Pasha. Do you know where they've gone from? I'm the grandson of one of those raiding gentlemen. They went out of Diyarbakır; they went out of Bahıkesir; they went out of Syria; they went out of Samsun; they brought Rumeli to their homeland. Then they built the Ottoman-Russian War of 1878 to begin from the Battle of Vienna, and later, during the migrations between 1921 and 1927, they made the land their homeland. These are the people who came from the Balkans, the Aegean islands, the Crimea, the Caucasus, to their own homes because of our state's decline and loss of land; these are the people who had to emigrate. In fact, they're immigrants who lost their own home and took refuge in your brother's house. But look, I'll tell you something, none of these immigrants pulled a gun on their own country's soldier, none of which caused the death of 35,000 people; none of them ran down the village and slaughtered the babies, the women, and the elderly; none of them did the next-door massacres just because they were on the side of the state; none of them caused the city center to drop bombs on the classrooms and kill innocent children; none of them destroyed and destroyed state property. I wonder if these are the people from the mountain. Are these the guys who beat up the farmer? I'd like to express to you that these are far more than intentional statements, and that I don't look too good on our friend who's having this conversation. Everyone here will know their place. I agree with that promise, and everyone will know their place. This is the land of Turk, the land of the Turks, a concept that transcends the race. You can't think of only the expression of the race that brought the Turkish nation together. We have a common history phenomenon, a common culture, a common language. If you count them aside and put Turkishism into the concept of race, here's what I call a true fascist. Then you're fascists. Those who separate Kurds and Turks are fascists to me. Fascism needs to be defined correctly. If you can't do that, I'd like to invite you to the mind, the witness, the defense. Look, I'll tell you one thing, there's only one reason why we came to this whole thing. That's because the square is so empty. You, my dear friends, are the ones who left this square empty. So this period of time when you're trying to introduce an outside terrorist organization like an innocent person in Turkey, like an innocent person, like an innocent person. With the beginning of events that brought Turkey to the point of division, people cannot gain speed. I don't know what else we're gonna do on these podiums. I heard a decision from the Supreme Court today that the party charters will be written in other languages. In a country without a language union, you will never, ever be able to unite the country. There's been a lot of talk here. There's spinach, there's Aztecs in America. Can you tell me which American can go and defend Spanish in Aztec? No, they're never and they're a very important position of the population. These laws that you have made to destroy the language union will cause Turkey to be divided. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I know that Burhan Hodja will bleed more than I do, but he still has to say yes, and I feel sorry for him. My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0033	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0132par0034	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0035	Wait a second. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion denied. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0133par0038	He gave a speech about our congressman who spoke about this earlier, so I'd like to make a promise.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0039	But now, look, the congressman spoke twice yesterday about the matter.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0133par0040	But he's talking again to frame our group.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0041	No, no. But you talked about it, and you talked about it.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0133par0042	No, we talked about it, and he's bringing it up again, and he's putting our group under suspicion.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0043	Look, a word to your group...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0133par0044	Well, we don't think it's right, your attitude, your attitude is not right.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0045	I mean, the name BDP didn't come out of his mouth, and I've been watching this kind of talk very carefully. Now, Mr. Sakık, if he tells me there's teasing, I'll evaluate him, but nothing about the group has happened.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0133par0047	No, he looked at our group and talked about our group.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0048	Yeah, everybody's looking at everybody. Come on, Mr. Baluken. So everyone's looking at everyone, and there's also the Justice and Development Party MPs, and he's told Mr. Lamb.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0134par0049	Our people have received the message.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0050	I submit Article 1 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 2. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the Law Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism, the 409 rankings in question. We submit and propose that the following (f) joke be added to the article. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turgut Dibek Emre Celal Dinçer Bridge (f) Statements of terrorism and terrorism, 1. That's the definition of his joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the second draft of the current 409 rows. I propose and propose that the following article (e) bendi be added. ▪ Confiscation of property, acts of terrorism, or any funds and assets that have been established by members of a terrorist organization have been seized and recorded in the treasury. Lütfü Türkkan Erkan Akçay Mustafa Erdem
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0135par0068	Mr. President, we're pulling that motion.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0069	They're pulling the motion. I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of Article 2 of the Charter on the Financing of Terrorism in 409 rows. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Erol Dora Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0136par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0079	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0137par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0131par0081	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0138par0082	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our amendment to Article 2 of the Law on the Financing of Terrorism in 409 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the International Charter of Terrorism, which was signed by the United Nations on December 9, 1999 and signed on behalf of the Republic of Turkey on September 27, 2011 in New York, was approved by the Council of Ministers' decision 01/03/2002. After that, pressure has been imposed on entity states to place this contract in their internal legislation. Turkey is one of the entity states responsible for fulfilling the United Nations contract. In order to ensure the presence of a general legal framework that will cover all aspects of terrorism, the contract has urged terrorists and terrorist organisations to take measures to prevent and prevent the financing of terrorism through the immediate review of the scope of international legal regulations on the prevention, punishment and elimination of terrorism. The contract provides the obligation to determine, find, freeze, confiscate, confiscate, prosecute, and raise effective measures to prosecute and prosecute the perpetrators and develop co-operation between governments in order to establish criminal, legal and administrative measures, which are suspected of serving terrorist purposes in particular and are used or used for the use of terrorist crimes. The United Nations have given the entity states the right to appreciate the way to determine the measures when fighting terrorism's financing, but the contract has lost its legal quality while adapting to internal legislation. The primary problem is the definition of terror. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the United Nations General Assembly's Decision No. 3034 on December 18, 1972 and directly related to international terrorism. In the first paragraph of this decision, the first paragraph mentions human rights and freedoms and actions of algebra and violence that threaten or destroy innocent people's lives. In this decision, there are only a few issues that matter about terrorism. Basically, this decision is the use of the term "International terrorism" in international documents. Secondly, the expression "terrorism" was considered together, and the acts of violence were considered together. In other words, Algebra and non-violent acts of terror cannot occur. In terrorist activities, it is seen that algebra and violence are not only considered acts of terror, but also the threat of algebra and violence to people's lives is being assessed. It has also been shown that the threat to Algebra and violence or Algebra and violence in question should be aimed at human rights and freedoms and the lives of innocent people. The international contract signed by Turkey as the entity is clear on the definition of terrorism, while references to the Act on Anti-Terrorism, which is in effect in the draft bill are addressed to the definitions of terrorism crimes. In accordance with the bill, which has a wide scope, the person will now be punished as a "terrorist criminal" and his property will be confiscated as a result of any thought. While it is clear that the public opinion is extremely uncomfortable and that changes will be made in the Anti-Terror Law with the fourth judicial package, which the government is planning to bring to Parliament in the coming days, we believe that referring to the Anti-Terror Law will soon cause serious problems. That's why we're critical of this bill that's been brought in. I hereby salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0139par0090	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the Law Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism, the 409 rankings in question. We submit and propose that the following (f) joke be added to the article. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends (f) Statements of terrorism and terrorism, 1. Article 1 refers to the definitions of the first joke. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0140par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0139par0099	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0141par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0139par0101	Mr. Bridgel, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0142par0103	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, are the subject of the proposed bill and its purpose is to prevent financing terrorism. When this is looked at from this point of view, with this presentation, of course, it's extremely important and necessary. We're fighting terrorism. The law is being tried to explain to society and the public, but here's the problem: the problem is in AKP's so-called advanced democracy, in the film of advanced democracy. What's wrong with this advanced democracy? Whoever opposes the AKP, his name is the terrorist, and his name is the student who wants to study without money in this advanced democracy, and the person who opens a banner in this scope is a terrorist, a former Chief of Staff who has fought terrorists for many years is a terrorist, and that's the problem. Under this law, it will be examined by a committee of bureaucrats appointed by the government, such as the person or institution, the association, the political party -- because such a distinction has not been made -- as we speak about in any part of the community -- and this board will say, "This is terrorist, he is transferring money to this terror, and then the property of this property will be taken over, and the administration will be transferred to this board. Now, there's no verdict here, there's no judge's decision. The decision will be made by the government's appointed bureaucrats, as we speak. The bureaucrat who's going to make that decision is going to be assigned there. When he doesn't make up his mind, when he wants to be fair, he'll be relieved of duty. Now, we're talking about power and authority that judges and courts don't have that kind of authority, because even in CMC, even in our penal code, judges haven't been given a chance to decide without justification. Even the judge can only make the decision to seize it in strong evidence or strong doubt. But the board has no such limitations. Then, the decisions that have been made produce results in CMK 138, so there is no court order, there is no judge's decision, but by law, there is no judge's judgment. And then between the articles of the bill -- we just said -- it gives birth to the result in 138. It says, "But when we look at 138, we see in the last joke that these decisions can only be made by the judge." Now, I just asked the Minister a question, and I said, "This is the case in Article 138." What do you say about that? Mr. Secretary said, "It's very interesting: "Ya, as the last authority, we will take this as the Council of Ministers." He said. Is the Council of Ministers made up of judges, Mr. Secretary? I mean, I'm not surprised. Of course, I wouldn't be able to get another answer from the Minister appointed by a Prime Minister who doesn't know the difference between legislation, execution, jurisprudence, and jurisprudence, who always sees judgment as a liability. So here's the thing...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0143par0107	What's publicization gonna be like, publicization.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0142par0108	I'll tell you if you listen. Now, at the heart of the matter is that the 138th article, the judge alone, says, can decide, but the Council of Ministers or the board that you have appointed, makes a decision. Now, the purpose of this law is clear and clear. The purpose of this law is to fight terror with the bureaucrats appointed by the AKP. It means that if you talk too much, we have the stick, we have the stick, we have the gun, and if you talk too much, we will seize your property. There's no other explanation. The AKP no longer believes in public will to remain in power. There's only one thing the AKP believes in: violence, power, pressure, and decisions he'll make with the boards of bureaucrats who will be in his favor. I'm going to say that we're against this law, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it, we're against the law, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it. If you're going to fight terrorism, you're going to speak to the public honestly; if you're going to fight terrorism... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you will negotiate with terror and then you will not be involved in any other negotiations, you will walk a straight line. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0144par0116	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 3; I will have them read and processed in order. In the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 3 of the 409 Numbered Bill of Laws, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of intermediation to them to be provided or brought to the meeting after the declaration. Lütfü Türkan Erkan Akçay Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment on the Obstruction of Anti-Terrorism Investigated 409. We propose and propose that the first joke (b) of Article 1 (b) be removed from the draft text, and (c) be changed to bendi (b) bendi (b). Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk R. Kerim Özkan Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Kürçı Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0145par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0144par0141	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0146par0142	Now, Mr. President, in fact, the joke that our dear friend just referred to is about procedure. So far, the Council of Ministers has made 14 decisions, none of which have Turkish citizens. Although the United Nations has two Turkish names in its decisions, the Council of Ministers did not and did not add those Turks to the decision of the Council of Ministers. Clearly, all decisions of the Council of Ministers are open to the judiciary, and the practice here does not cover crimes related to financing terrorism in Turkey. If a person in Turkey has committed the crime against the financing of terrorism, it will go to trial. The Council of Ministers does not have the authority of the commission.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0144par0144	Do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0146par0145	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0144par0146	Mr. Buldan, who will speak? You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0147par0147	Mr. Furman...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0144par0148	Mr. Furry, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0148par0149	Mr. President, dear friends, this law and this clause are no more than an effort to place internal law in front of parliament, in order to prevent the financing of terrorism from the United Nations General Assembly of December 9, 1999. First of all, this international contract was built on international terrorism. This is the concept of international terrorism, and therefore Article 3 of the contract, which states that the act of crime is committed within a single state, that the accused is a member of that state, and that he may live in its territory. What would be the point of this bill of acts considered to be acts of terrorism under Article 3713 under the Anti-Terror Act? In fact, the law is no more than an attempt to cheat against international law. The bill, which the United Nations has asked member states to place the contract in civil law, considers the United Nations, not the Parliament, but the United Nations, as well. This disrespect is unacceptable. Furthermore, the United Nations resolution, based on the Ad Hoc Committee's resolution on December 18, 1972, calls on governments to make decisions that prevent international terrorism, but in doing so, two things: first, prevent international terrorism that threatens or takes lives of innocent people. The second is to investigate the underlying causes of this form of terrorism and the acts of violence that drive people to take human lives, including their own, in the effort to make radical changes. But we don't have anything like that in our bill. On the other hand, this 1972 General Assembly Decision points to other things. First, it begins by condemning acts that have led to the deaths of innocent people and have violated basic freedoms, but calls on governments to understand and bring peaceful solutions to these acts of violence. The right of nations to decide their own fates, the right to independence of the peoples living under colonial and racist regimes, the rights of those living under all forms of foreign sovereignty, and the legitimacy of their struggle, especially the condition of the United Nations and the valid decisions of various organs, he points out. So, in fact, this takes into account the violent acts of rightful struggles, freedoms, rights, independence, the legitimate basis for the fight against racism, and calls on us not only to take refuge in technical reasons when we do the prevention of states through some sort of evaluation. In this case, in fact, this law appears to be the continuation of some of the attitudes mentioned to us in the Holy War report. The Kutlu War on the murder of Behcet Canturk wrote: "Even though this person was killed one way or another, the decision was made by the Turkish police and this decision was executed. This is not something to discuss. What is to be discussed is in what order and by whom. Now, by the decision of this Council of Ministers, it seems that people are no longer being killed; their property, their property are permitted. Based on what? Based on this call from the United Nations. He shouldn't try to associate the United Nations with his crime. The government must withdraw this law and this clause immediately.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0149par0155	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0150par0158	Mr. President, I have made a promise on Article 3 of the Bill of Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism. I salute your high council. Before I begin my talk, I would like to share with you a process that is connected to this, which is going on with special authorities. We're going through an extraordinary process of trial starting with martial law courts, followed by state security courts, followed by special authorities. After that, we are in a process that continues with regional criminal courts called anti-terror courts, which are alleged to have been closed. Even in private court, which is a special court of law, even in courts that need to be held, the methods of extraordinary judgment are unfortunately being used. There are a number of rules, a number of ground rules are being broken, and I'd like to share them with you. One of them is that even though the special authorities have been closed, unfortunately, they are in effect. Infractions of the secrecy of the investigation... unfortunately are being shared with the public. The police are sharing all the information and documents they have with the media they have seen close to them. Therefore, a rule called the secrecy of the investigation has unfortunately been destroyed. Other than that, it's one of the most important karines of innocence. Unless a person is convicted before a court, unless he passes the Supreme Court and is approved, we must consider the person innocent. Unfortunately, we show people in media organs in front of the public, sheets and sheets. In terms of the nature of the evidence, an incident called false evidence, digital data... unfortunately, Turkey's public opinion, especially in the 2000s, followed by false evidence, digital data, and method of destroying people. Other than that, there is a method we know as a confidential witness. Although we have shouted this from here, many times from the council bench, unfortunately, this way of speaking in this regard has not found enough answers from the opposite side. Can you imagine -- we always say -- that the head of this country's general staff was tried in a trial where one of the most important leaders of the terrorist organization was a confidential witness? Now I'm asking you from here: the Chief of Staff is also the head of the Turkish Armed Forces. While we tried the Chief of Staff as the head of the terrorist organization, we also identified the Turkish Armed Forces as a terrorist organization. When we examine Article 104 of the Constitution, you will see that the Honorary President of the Turkish Armed Forces is the President of the Republic of Turkey. So while we're judging this, are we putting the President in the same suit, my dear friends? I'd like to ask you from here. Other than that, we've voiced long-term arrests several times. Many of our friends in Parliament, unfortunately, suffer from these lengths of detention today. We have friends who can't do their legislatures, intellectuals of this country, other people, who have, unfortunately, been on trial for a long time in the process of judging them. In the Anti-Terror Act, the special authorities have a ten-year period of imprisonment in the courts. How can we explain this? Look, I'd like to share with you a story that's been published in the press today: especially in the new courts, behind the courts, is the foundation of justice property. There was a saying that we're learning from the press today that under it they're signing the signature of Mustafa Kemal. I'd like to suggest to them that the judges who make this trial in private court in particular are the basis of justice property behind them. Let them take down the writing, the basis of justice is persecution. Let them write it this way. This is how it suits Turkey. If that's how you make these judgments, I think we can do it this way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] They taught us in law schools, my dear friends, that doubt benefits the accused. But at this point, we're making a judgment now that the judge takes advantage of doubt, the prosecutor takes advantage of suspicion. What I'm trying to say here is that even judges and prosecutors are violating the rules of objective trial, impartial and fair trial. Now, we're trying to give this task to the bureaucrats who are concerned that we're going to fund this trial with the special committees, which is terrorism. What are they saying? Look, there were Republican prosecutors in this country, you've been dating many times, you've criticised Mahmut Assat Bozkurt as a Turk, he's a racist, but Mahmut Esat Bozkurt has a saying, I sign under him, he says: You are responsible for the loss of the Turkish peasant who works on the coast of Meric, and you are responsible for the smallest injustice of those who live in this country, even the tears of orphans who are waiting for alimony in the middle of the mountains of ben. I'm telling you from here: Are the Republican prosecutors who conduct these investigations today, who serve in extraordinary trials, doing this by reading the words of Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt, or are they doing the task they've been given? What I'm trying to say is that the courts of special authority have been judged unfairly, that the rules of fair trial have been violated, but with all of this being violated, we're trying to create a new monster. We're saying that we're putting the facts on the edge of this, with a board of officers and the board of bureaucrats and we think we can prevent the financing of terrorism, which is not in the jurisdiction today. We'll all see it as a dream. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0151par0171	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. In the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 3 of the 409 Numbered Bill of Laws, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of intermediation to them to be provided or brought to the meeting after the declaration. Lütfü Türkkan (Alexeli) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0152par0178	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0151par0179	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0153par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0151par0181	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0154par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of this motion, I'd like to share a few assessments of the fight against terrorism. Of course, in order for security forces to succeed in the fight against terrorism, certain elements must be transformed into the basis of this fight against terrorism. The most important of these elements is the cutting of funding resources, which, unfortunately, in the fight against terrorism, has not been a serious measure and practice to cut off the funding resources of the terrorist organization. While you're fighting terrorism, if the terrorist organization's funding continues, you limit the security forces' ability to fight, strengthen the others. Second: Public support should be cut in the fight against terrorism, but unfortunately the PKK terror organization has been raised to a position as if it were a representative of our Kurdish-rooted citizens, and the villain of the Imran has been transformed into their political leader. In this regard, once the public has been clearly reduced to its representative, the fight against terrorism has been severely damaged. Fighting terrorism is important, but we have to fight terror's goals and goals. When you don't fight their goals and goals and justify their goals, you've already eliminated the means to fight the terrorist organization. Another thing that needs to be done is to cut off communications. Today, the terrorist organization, with every means, unfortunately, with its communications sources, with its press bleachers under the walnut tree, is able to deliver its messages very freely, with headlines, to our nation. You need to cut off international legitimacy. You didn't cut it, Barzani feeds its safety zone in Kandil. There is no more, not enough, a new safe zone is being created in Syria. This is not directly related to our Kurdish people; it is directly the domain of the terrorist organization. Who's supposed to be doing all this? Political authority. If the political authority doesn't do that and support the security forces, what's the point? Instead of fighting terrorism, we'll be at the negotiating stage of terrorism. In this regard, he reveals that the fight to achieve a political outcome has been abandoned by giving up the direct fight against terrorism. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that I find international terrorism very difficult to fight terrorism: The United States has a national anti-terrorism strategy. Turkey is the co-chair of the US counterterrorism strategy. Look, what's in this national strategy? In this 17 - page national strategy, the United States speaks of ideology in its national strategy. So, what's he aiming at as ideology? Islam. They don't describe Al-Qaeda's description, its terrorism, its ideology, its concept of the fight against terrorism aimed directly at Islam is being developed, and in this context it defines Al-Qaeda and says that their safe zone should be eliminated, and Turkey, today, is its co-chair. Are there any PKK separatists? No, there isn't. So now you're the co-chair to implement the national strategy of the United States of America. It says here that Al Qaeda, Hamas, Hezbollah are also in it. He says, "He is even financing Iran's terrorism." It says here that Turkey is the co-chair of this. Now, therefore, the way to turn international support to our advantage is to support our fight against terrorism, but unfortunately, the fight against terrorism in this concept cuts off international support for Turkey's fight against terrorism, but it sets a stage for the implementation of projects that foreigners want to implement in this geography through Turkey. One dimension of this, I've just expressed, as far as international legitimacy is concerned, Turkey is moving and managing the issue. Now, don't let anyone fool anyone here. What is Turkey doing and what is Turkey doing in the national strategy of the United States concerning Turkey's international policy? Turkey will have a national strategy in the fight against terrorism, but unfortunately, without a counterterrorism strategy, there is no other address but Imralı, the negotiations are imposed on Turkey as a solution. In that sense, it is clear and clear that such an understanding has taken steps to achieve the goals and goals of terrorism rather than the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0155par0195	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0154par0196	In this regard, while this law on financing terrorism is a phase, I would like to say that it is essentially pointless to pass such a law through the negotiation process. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0155par0199	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there are two motions on Article 4 that I will have read these motions in the same manner, and I will conduct them together, and I will make separate commitments to those who have motions, or I will have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment on the Obstruction of Anti-Terrorism Investigation. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0156par0218	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0155par0219	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0157par0220	We disagree, Mr. President. Mr. Tuncel, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0158par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made. I salute you all. We're really discussing a very dangerous law in Turkey today. Although this is considered within the framework of the European Union or as the imposition of the United States, this is a matter that will directly concern Turkey's internal policy, internal policy, and it is necessary to look at it from here. We've just asked Mr. Secretary, especially when we said that the Anti-Terror Law -- in particular -- would have a very serious problem with the fact that it was included in the financing law of this terrorism, especially in Article 3 and 4. Mr. Secretary said it has nothing to do with public pressure, or oppression of society. Mr. Secretary, at least we were educated in Turkish, even though we didn't have a native language, so we went to college. We know what we're reading. Thus, what is referred to here is the Anti-Terror Law. Thus, when we look at the framework of the Anti-Terror Law, anything that should be included in the freedom of thought and expression of Turkey is defined by the definition of terrorism. So tomorrow, let's say that because he wants free education, because he wants money, because he wants education in the native language, you can freeze the accounts of the person you're judging in the fight against terrorism because it says so here. Even if it is not a member of the organization, Article 4 is not required that the funds be used to commit a crime in order to be punished according to Article 1. I mean, there's something dangerous about whether it was used there or not. Now, how does that work? Either we don't use the same language as power, not the same sentences, or we have an illusion here. The sentence we read was brought to this international contract by Anti-Terror Law 3713, conditioned according to Turkey. So here, the social opposition is actually intended to be pressured. Now, there are more Kurdish issues being debated as terrorism is being debated here, but valuable lawmakers, we also know that one day in Turkey, the patriots are now being tried as terrorists. One day he'll come back and shoot you. So, you might be dealing with this in terms of one place or in context of the Kurdish problem, you can express it on the current basis of saving the day, but tomorrow it's going to mean other things. Besides, for example, a lot of charities, human rights organizations, they say it's something that's meant for them. In this regard, this is not an acceptable law. So what do we know about terrorism now that it's under the Anti-Terror Law? We don't have another Anti-Terror Law, at least we have a subject that we meet every day. Therefore, you added it in Article 3 (a.k.a., Article 3), which you referred to as acts of terrorism under the Anti-Terror Law No. 3713. Thus, this law has somehow become relevant to Turkey's inner thing. So we object to it, we oppose it. This law is really going to lead to economic genocide. Besides, there's already a real practice, especially for Kurdish businessmen. For example, he has problems with not getting a bid because he has a Kurdish identity, so he's having a lot of difficulties in a lot of areas, tax issues. We're one-on-one, we're in public, we're dealing with this sort of thing. In fact, now with this law, it could be legalized, legalized. Now there's no such practice here. When you say that there is no practice here, we'll see in the locals that the first victims of this will actually be Kurds, they'll have democratic forces, they'll be rights and freedom struggles in this country. Of course, you can say that these people we're dealing with are poor, they don't have money. Right, Minister, we're doing politics through poor laborers, we're coming from there, we don't have money on our base, we have money on your front. You're already pressuring other opponents with other things. You can be this relaxed about that, but this is a situation that will seriously affect Turkey's fight for democracy in Turkey. Now, another thing: Why do we have to make this law based on other people's pressure? We have to remove it by February 22nd. Let's discuss this. There are real criticisms, NGOs are critical. Why don't you discuss all this and develop something that you can convince us of? Mr. Secretary says as I speak: "No, it's not. For example, we're not convinced, Mr. Minister, but this isn't on the stand, it's not in the General Assembly debates, we haven't been able to respond to these discussions at the level we wanted in the commission debates. In that respect, we say once again that this law must not pass, that the government must withdraw it, that I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0159par0235	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0160par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, when you look at the law, there are two dimensions to the bill: 1) What are the demands of the European Union and the United States? 2) What are the demands of political power? Now, of course, Mr. Secretary of State and our political legislature friends have told you that such a law is needed, but there really is no need for such legislation; for the public to know and for the valued lawmakers to know, Professor Dr. Izzet Özgenç is not prepared for you on page 159 of the last edition of the book I have on criminal organizations. The bill is a text imposed on Turkey by the United States of America. The bill contains provisions that allow the administrative decision to freeze all assets indefinitely, regardless of whether or not there is a connection to crime, without any criminal investigation or prosecution. According to this bill, all assets of a company, foundation or association, which is established according to the laws of the state of the Republic of Turkey or by the laws of the Republic of Turkey, can be seized indefinitely without the need of a judge's decision, without a criminal investigation, so its name is a general exception. Now, when we get out of here, this bill can usually be ended by taking advantage of this law to finish it, if it can't really fight against the competition of associations, foundations and other imperialist forces that operate abroad, both in the United States and in the United States. This is its front on the American front and on the outside. To his front of Turkish law: in countries where the legal state is, the citizens usually need to be stronger in the face of governance. The administration, the political government, the executive body, the executive body, must be restricted to law. So, well, when we look at this law, is there a limitation to the law? When we really look at this bill, there's no limitation of government or political adults, and there's even as much joy as you can get. So, does this bill provide us with legal security? It creates fear, pressure, a digestive process in society. I mean, for the sake of law safety, that law doesn't make it a law safety. So, if we look at it in terms of the principle of proportionality, will the decision of caution lead us to the goal? This bill also violates the principle of proportionality. Well, if political power really wanted to fight terrorism, didn't you have enough legal arguments so far? Legally, there were enough arguments. What is it? Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law is the financing of terrorism. So, political power, why didn't you practice the 8th article on financing terrorism, Article 54, 55 of the Turkish Penal Code, Article 220, Article 283, Article 281, Article 281, Article 281? So in accordance with the international agreements that we have signed, there are no international contracts that we have not signed so far, under the 90th amendment of our Constitution. Two: Are there laws missing in terms of domestic law? No. So, what's the need for it? It is a bill brought to silence those who oppose America from outside, to silence those who oppose political power. This is an authoritarian bill, a bill that creates fear. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For this reason, I especially urge lawmakers to listen to the voice of their conscience, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0161par0252	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in the 5th article, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of "1267 (1999) " after the declaration of "1267" in the first verse of the 5th Amendment on the prevention of terrorism financing of the 409 rows in question. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubatyya Sadi Bilgiç Mohamed Murtaza Kır Nurdan Şanlı as Tülay Kaynar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th Amendment on the prevention of the financing of terrorism that is currently being held at 409. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turgut Dibek Celal Dinçer Mahmut Tanal United Nations Security Council decisions Article 5- (1) Listed by the United Nations Security Council's 1267 (1999) and 1989 (2011), the Council of Ministers will ask the Criminal Judge to freeze the property of the property at the request of freezing the wealth of the institution or organisations. The judge's decision is published in the Official Gazette and carried out without delay. I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 5 of Article 5 of Article 409 of "Procession of Anti-Terrorism" from the text of the article. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Altan Tan Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0162par0280	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0161par0281	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0163par0282	Mr. President, there's a situation where we don't bring any new regulations for the terrorism and financing crime committed in Turkey. This is already defined in Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law, nothing further. Turkish citizens finance terrorism in Turkey, so even if there is a trial with this suspicion, there is no way that the Council of Ministers or the Commission of Evaluation will freeze their property in any way. So the bottom of this is clear and clear...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0164par0283	Then take it off, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0163par0284	The goods are only within the framework of the UN Security Council decisions and the principle of reciprocity with other countries. The financing of terrorism in Turkey will continue as it used to be within the framework of the judiciary, the administration does not have the authority to freeze in that direction. We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0165par0286	You're making the same statement, the preachers are saying the same thing, but I'm asking you to stop explaining now. Mr. Tan, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0166par0288	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, another demagogue. We didn't take it out for citizens of Turkey, it's already in the Anti-Terror Law that there's a clause about these other crimes; we took it out on the United Nations' business, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So who's in Turkey, who's going to give Al Qaeda, who's going to give him $5 million, what's going to give him $10 million, where's he going to get that money? Two: Again, under international decisions... which organization, which businessman, how, how, how, how will he transfer money to? If he can't, then why are you referring to the existing Anti-Terror Law? What's going on now, fellas? We don't have to fool each other. There's a Anti-Terror Act now, believe me, the prosecutors and judges who are making these decisions right now will not see the face of heaven, God willing. There's nine-year sentence for throwing a rock; 16, 17, 18. I have a friend who owns a brick factory in Diyarbakir, two children, one of whom was sentenced to seven years and one of whom was sentenced to nine years. They're high school students. Based on what? Sir, here, he threw a rock. Why did he throw a rock? Here, in his fingernails, he ordered the terrorist organization, he acted, he came, he participated in his actions. So, he supported the actions of the terrorist organization, and he was considered a member of the terrorist organization along with it. He collected, collected, folded, folded, those unconscionable judges, prosecutors -- that's how much he punished these two brothers. There are dozens, hundreds of specimens like this. Now, where do I come from? I'll come to the law to finance this terror. It rained, you called me a duck. What does rain have to do with duck? It's going to rain, it's going to build up in the pits, there's going to be ducks, and you called me a duck. Dear friends, we don't need to fool each other. That's why it was removed, what it was meant to be done. If you treat every person who says it's raining as a duck, as in this Anti-Terror Law, your destination is to turn this country into a place of fire.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0167par0292	The country's a firehouse.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0166par0293	Mr. Secretary can say: "Ya, what are you talking about?" Mr. Secretary, I'm talking about myself. I'm Golden Tan. I'm 55 years old. I didn't have a gun in my hand except for my military term. All the people who know me know me. I walked around unarmed on the day 10 people were killed a day, and I still am. I'm on trial for 23 and a half years. Why? That's because of the Anti-Terror Act you've got. Why? For reading Fatiha at a guerrilla funeral. I've read Fatiha, he says. In fact, he doesn't even say Fatiha, he says: "He has read the prayer to God. " Here's the story of the duck. Now, you've stood up in the financial issue, you've arranged a meal with very humble, very good intentions, you've provided a support for an organ, for something, not even a bill on your behalf, the people from the National Intelligence Committee are coming in from that committee, and if he's made a decision, if he's made a decision, your property is frozen. If you want to create a rift between all Kurdish businessmen and Kurdish politics, you're not going to be able to pull it off, you're wasting your time. Look, 10,000 people are in prison, except for, I don't know, Turkey, this much is on the mountain, and it's still not over. Don't do this. So we don't do ethnic nationalism, regional nationalism. You say, take inventory of all the contracts in Istanbul, urban transformation, see who the contractors are, let's see if you're doing regional nationalism or not. Take out an inventory, inventory of companies, construction companies, see what comes up. For him, this is not the way. Oh, we're not begging you, we're not trying to convince you because you're not convinced, you're not listening to anything. Do what you know, you'll do it anyway, and in a little while, those who don't... you'll do what you know. Do what you can, but you're wasting this country. My respects.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0168par0299	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0169par0303	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0168par0304	You want roll call, fine. Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Altay, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Çam, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Illum, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Akar, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Küyük, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Güler, Mr. Turk, Mr. Turk, Mr. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th Amendment on the prevention of the financing of terrorism that is currently being held at 409. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends United Nations Security Council Decisions Article 5- (1) Listed by the United Nations Security Council's 1267 (1967) and 1989 (2011), the Council of Ministers asks the Criminal Judge to freeze the property of the property at the request of freezing the assets of the institution or organisations. The judge's decision is published in the Official Gazette and carried out without delay. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0170par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0168par0323	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0171par0324	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0168par0325	Mr. Dinçer, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0172par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 5 of the Bill of the Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism. I salute your high council. There is no doubt that the measures against the financing of terrorism are beneficial and necessary. These measures perform many functions, including reducing potential damage caused by terrorist activities and attacks. Financial controls facilitate monitoring of militant activities so that preventive measures can be taken. That would give us a significant advantage in the fight against terrorism. The loss of life caused by terrorism, the connections of terrorist organizations to drug trafficking, the connections of terrorist organisations to human trafficking are the truth of terrorism that almost everyone in our country knows about. But there's also the other side of the mirror, which is the failures and errors in methods and practices when it wants to cut funding in the fight against terrorism. Reports made by the European Union in the European countries under which this law was implemented included extensive criticism in implementing the United Nations resolution on financing terrorism. The reports highlighted that it is important not to turn this into a fishing demonstration, but to ensure that there are no rights violations of privacy. Intelligence is not always correctly interpreted or supported by evidence, and mistakes can be caused when trying to properly identify those who finance terrorism. Hence, many countries are renegotiating and redesigning their laws. It is also very difficult to achieve a fully effective and decent international cooperation when combined with the fact that there are still no universal definitions of terrorism and terrorist organization, such as harsh measures without sufficient evidence, issues related to fair trial and transparency, violations of national and international regulations by officials. This bill was drafted by the ruling speakers to fulfill our international obligation. Thus far, Turkey, which has only implemented the UN's decisions, will have to meet the demands of countries with which it has reached a bilateral agreement. Turkey will have to act on the demand of countries it has previously agreed on to deal with terror, such as Hamas and Chechen insurgents, whom it does not consider terrorists. Is the government ready for this? There is clearly an intervention in the field of duty and authority of the judiciary. It is necessary in law states that those who have a criminal element of financial resources mentioned should be reported by the administration and submitted to the judiciary according to the verdict of the judiciary. With this law, the universal rule of law is reversed, and the administration is replaced by the judiciary. What kind of criminal action will be imposed on members of the Law-based Evaluation Commission for wrongful and wrongful decisions? The legal and administrative investigation of the members of the commission in unlawful decisions has not yet been stated in this law. It shouldn't be hard to predict how to use this law today, given that hundreds of people are often held in prison without basis because of the terror charges he has so easily spent on the opposition today. The government's representatives say otherwise, but in this way, the government will be able to seize the assets of the entire company, the foundation, the foundation, the union, or the real people, who are completely opposed to its own views, which it considers guilty on grounds that have absolutely no legal grounds. Therefore, serious control mechanisms must be created for decision-making and practices to prevent financing terrorism. However, there are many flaws in the bill. Finally, I have to say, the effects of freezing decisions based on exact unknown, non-transparent criteria and evidence will be devastating to those involved. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0173par0336	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of "1267 (1999) " after the declaration of "1267" in the first verse of the 5th Amendment on the prevention of terrorism financing of the 409 rows in question. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0174par0343	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0173par0344	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0175par0345	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0173par0346	Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0176par0347	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0173par0348	I'm reading the reason: The decision 1267 (1999) envisions the implementation of various sanctions, including freezing assets, against people related to the Taliban, Usama bin Laden and Al Qaeda. The list of the individuals and organisations in question is being prepared and constantly updated by the Committee for Compulsions established within the Security Council. This decision was divided into two separate decisions in 1988 (2011) and 1989 (2011). The bill was only referred to the 1989 (2011) resolution, which meant that the other UN Security Council's decision could not be carried out, so the motion was made to compensate for the lack. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 6 there are three proposals, and I'm going to read the first one: Law number 409 is six. Article 2. In his joke, we demand and demand that the State Department be removed. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Sumer Oral Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 6 of Article 6 of the Law on the Financing of Terrorism from the text of the Article 409. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Turgut Dibek Malik Ecder Özdemir Mahmut Tanal Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0177par0377	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0173par0378	The government...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0178par0379	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0173par0380	Mr. Buldan, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0179par0381	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our amendment motion on Article 6. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, all my friends who stood on this stand on the dangers of this law have shared their thoughts with both the public and the General Assembly. In fact, it's hard not to worry, especially without the definition of TMK being removed from this law -- Mr. Secretary, explain as much as you want from here as you want -- unfortunately, you can't convince us or the public about this. Because you have to look at the dangers of this law before TMK comes up. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I remember the 91 and 95 process when this law was discussed. In particular, in 1991, Prime Minister Tansu Cirler made a statement at the Holiday Inn: we have the list of Kurdish businessmen who helped the PKK, and we will answer to them. And after this statement, many businessmen, such as Behcet Canturk, War Buldan, Hacı Karay, Adnan Yıldırım, have been massacred and still have not been found. In fact, with such a law, perhaps people won't be killed, but we want to make it very clear here that people who believe that the Kurdish problem in Turkey has passed democratically, that democratically, democratic forces in Turkey are a law aimed at cutting off the voices of opponents in Turkey. Yes, perhaps by this law, people will not be killed or put in prisons, but with this law, every man who opens his mouth, every man who is opposed, every democratic force, every member of this order, will be seized by this law, their assets frozen, and their opposition will be cut off. Now, Mr. Secretary, that's not going to happen here, no one will be arrested, no one's assets will be seized, no one's assets will be frozen. Even if he makes a statement, we want to express that there is a serious law against businessmen in particular if the definition of TMC is not removed from this law. Dear friends, Madam Secretary, you're here. Please, you have to convince both us and the public about this. How can you guarantee or guarantee that you will not do anything against Kurdish businessmen, anti-democracy forces before TMK is out of the law? Again, we say from Mr. Secretary that he should review this law once again, especially considering the motions made by the BDP Group, again especially considering the proposals made by CHP, that they should review it and support the motions we have submitted. Otherwise, with this law coming out, we want to say that very serious dangers await Turkey, and very serious dangers await public opinion in Turkey. It's not just the opposition, it's the law, it's not just the businessmen, it's not the democratic forces, it's the law that's going to hit you, it's the precious friends, the precious AKP MPs. These seats come and go. You're here today, we're here today, but tomorrow others will come and sit in these seats. So, when we think about it, we think that if he doesn't shoot us tomorrow, we should all go against this law together so he doesn't shoot you guys tomorrow, and we express it. We salute the General Assembly and expect support for our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0180par0389	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0181par0392	Mr. President, we ask that the 6th Amendment be removed from the bill by the motion we made in Article 6. As I said in my speech on the whole, this clause is contrary to the Constitution, because it is a matter of control of property above all that is left to the Evaluation Commission to decide whether to freeze the assets of foreign state governments. The right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the The European Convention on Human Rights is also a guaranteed right. An intervention in this right is not based on a constitutional legitimate reason for demand from the foreign state, and without a judge's decision. My dear friends, from every speaker, ruling party and government here, say this bill is not particularly relevant to the citizens of Turkey, which is not true. Now, I also said in my speech on all of it, that even though this bill is stated in accordance with the demands of the United Nations and what the FATF is asking for, in practice, it will be directed and directed by the government. Adam's Word; we all know Adam's Word. Who is this Adem Islaik? Dean of the İstanbul University Law School. What else is so special about Adam's Word? He's a member of the Science Commission, which held the Penal Code and the Penal Code in 2004, one of our teachers active in the Science Commission. What else is so special about this Adem Sok, Mr. Secretary? This Adam Word is a scientist who has been counseling your government in law enforcement laws passed by the Justice Commission so far, and is still counseling. Mr. Secretary, look, this scientist, Adem Adem Isiker, says that any company that doesn't like can be sunk by a foreign intelligence organization saying that it finances it. Now, isn't Adam Word telling the truth, Mr. Secretary? Again, another scientist, Izzet Özgenç, who has drafted your laws so far, your government's laws in the Science Commission, who has been tasked by your government in the Justice Commission, is opposed to this bill. Professor Cumhur of Gazi University is against it. So it's not just scientists who think in our line of work, but scientists who think in your line of thought and consult in yours, but you're still getting up here, when you need to get rid of the concerns of this society, you're saying, "No, it's okay." So is there a penal code in this country where students seeking free education will be tried for membership in a terrorist organization? Does it say in the law that lawyers in this country will be taken into custody in the dark by breaking down their homes, windows, doors, and violations of the rules prescribed by the Penal Code? But it's being done, Mr. Secretary, in this country. So the rules that you took out in this House, the Republican People's Party and the Justice and Development Party, and the Penal Code, which was issued in 2005, do not apply personally. The student who opened the banner is on trial for membership in a terrorist organization. THE people who protest the evil of construction in the TOKI are treated as members of a terrorist organization. We've always said that the basic problem in this country is the definition of terror. An antidemocratic law such as the Antidemocratic Law against Terror is not enough, the special authority established under Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law, the anti-terrorism courts of the special task force are not enough, and now you bring before them a special task force of bureaucrats under the command of the executive body. While we are waiting for you to remove special courts in advanced democracy -- such as the Anti-Terror Law -- you're privatizing private, bringing privacy, and narrowing democracy to the point where you're expanding democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So you choose to silence the opponent. It's not true. That's why we want our motion accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0182par0398	Thank you. The motions...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0183par0402	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0182par0403	You want roll call. Mr. Slim, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Pine, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay, Mr. Dirt, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Özgündütutan, Mr. Özgük, Mr. Kaplan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Law number 409 is six. Article 2. In his joke, we demand and demand that the State Department be removed. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0184par0419	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0182par0420	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0185par0421	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0182par0422	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0186par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 6 of the Bill of Law on the Financing of Terrorism. I hereby salute the High Council. Of course, I have made a commitment to express our views on certain issues regarding the motion, Mr. Lawmakers. The fight against those who finance terrorism and terrorism is of great importance to every citizen in the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has long paid heavy prices for terrorism. In our country -- no matter what -- we have to say that the most important problem is terrorism. Of course, the main importance of this terrorism problem is separatism, which means that Turkey has any, you know, Kurdish issue, not the Turkish issue, but the separatism problem. The problem, of course, is that we're now having the most obvious examples of where it came from, which was almost the end of terrorism in 2002. In our country, the fight against terrorism has now become a negotiation. It is also a clear indication that negotiations with Kandil will not solve any problems with İmral, and that we will face more severe problems in our country in the coming years. However, the negotiations with Kandil have continued, so, through some institutions of the state, negotiations with the Imran, through some institutions of the government, but should not be forgotten: terror must be fought in every way. Where terror feeds, all of those resources must be drained, which, of course, we have to find out very well. Trafficking is the main economic source of terrorism and PKK today. When we look at smuggling, at the beginning of it, you see sugar smuggling, cigarette smuggling, diesel smuggling, but most importantly, drug trafficking. The income the PKK obtained from drug trafficking is around $10 billion. That's not a little phrase. I mean, maybe that's one of the reasons why PKK terrorism isn't over right now. So the militants of the PKK's terrorist organization and a number of places that support it are taking a share in the gain, and thus, terrorism is supported. See, there are currently increases in cannabis use in some areas, especially in Diyarbakır, and there are increases in cannabis use in Adana, and there are also increases in many of our major cities, such as Istanbul, from the heroin we call Hakari, to other places. So this is where we see the most obvious examples of the PKK's terrorist organization poisoning our people while they're making that income. Look, I'd like to share with you some notes on some of the research that the Police Department has recently conducted. 874 people were arrested in an operation conducted by law enforcement from 1984 to July 2012 under the scope of narco terrorism. In the 60th part of these operations, large quantities of drugs have been seized in PKK and CK cell homes and bunkers. In operations against terrorist organisations, 4,253 kilograms of heroin, 24,205 kilograms of marijuana, 5,442,253 cannabis plants, 4.305 kilograms of morphine, 8 kg of opium gum, 710 kilograms of cocaine, 337.412 synthetic drugs, 26.190 litre acetic anhydride and two factories. Dear lawmakers, this is a very important indicator. So the militants of the PKK's terrorist organization are making money in a very serious way. Fighting the PKK, of course, is not supposed to be one-way, it has to be in every way. Both resources within the country and resources outside the country must be absolutely, absolutely drained. Of course, when they're drying out, it's not a negotiation, it's a struggle. Look, we're enforcing this law right now. In addition to the fact that this law has been passed in some places, it should be passed very soon, as well as in dealing with drugs. I believe this law, which needs to be passed, will contribute greatly to the draining of all the resources that go to terrorist organizations from our children's knowledge of drugs, from their protection. With these feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0187par0437	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 7 of the same nature. Now, I'm going to have these motions read, and I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th article of the Bill of the Law be removed from the draft text on the financing of terrorism in 409 rows. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Malik Ecder Özdemir Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Ali Serindağ Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0188par0456	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0187par0457	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0189par0458	Mr. President, there's an investigation and a judge's decision to seize crimes involving the financing of terrorism within the country. This already exists in the Anti-Terror Law.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0190par0459	Then take it out of the law, Minister.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0189par0460	With this new law, Turkey does not have an ice cream mechanism for those who have committed the financing of terrorism in the country.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0191par0461	Mr. Secretary, are you saying no is necessary? So you were asked if it was yes or no.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0189par0462	Yeah, well, no grounds... so really, the Council of Ministers doesn't have the authority to freeze in this framework, the Evaluation Commission doesn't have the authority to freeze in this framework. This is a matter of domestic law, a subject to be followed under the Penal Code. It's a law that already exists.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0192par0463	Why don't you take the stand, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0189par0464	With this law, as stated in this framework, sir, it is applied to those who protest this. I wanted to express it. We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0193par0466	There's no rule against that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0194par0467	I don't think I can...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0195par0468	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0196par0469	New procedure, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0195par0470	Now, there's no such procedure but... now they're saying that he can explain why he didn't join. Reminds me of another referendum.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0197par0471	Let's have a discussion then, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0195par0472	I'll argue, you know, there's a game out there!
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0198par0473	Mr. President, we're doing community service here, watching the game is not a priority.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0195par0474	I don't mind, Mr. Tanal. That was a joke, for God's sake! Aah! Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0199par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Secretary keeps telling us this, but we keep thinking about the practices that we're doing. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to give you a few examples of TMK in particular. In particular, the reason for the punishment of a friend who was tried in Mardin is that his uncle is coming to visit him on the phone at night, and he says to his mother, "My uncles will come tomorrow, make preparations." This is interpreted in court as: Your uncles are police. So the police will come, prepare, clean up. He was sentenced for organization membership because he said so. Another thing... yesterday -- we're following the press case -- the indictments are being read, and I wish our ministers here would come and watch. Now, in the press case, they participated in an action, followed by lawmakers. He says: "There are songs that have been sung. He's commenting on these songs -- the person who's there as a journalist has ties to the organization, sympathy that he's watching the action there, so he's being tried for membership in the organization. In particular, all of these indictments, which we refer to as a political genocide operation, are considered a code code for almost all such false reasons, especially to buy meat or to buy ketchup. I mean, how should we believe you now, Mr. Secretary? This law is in this article -- it'll make up its mind. So, say it as much as you want. So, if that's the way you say it is, they don't have the applications in Turkey -- we want to believe your word, we don't want to oppose it here -- then let's remove the third article that refers to this TMK. If you add the definition of the Law Against Terror to this, then the reasons you're giving us have no credibility. That's the point. Depends on the interpretation. For example, we visit prisons a lot. Everyone reads, says: "This is in the law, you have to do it." They will read this law. So what's being done here says that the 3713 is the definition of terrorism in the Anti-Terror Law. Now, if it involves it, it's being evaluated accordingly. This is where we object. We've had some very serious problems with this one-on-one. In Turkey, the law makes a serious political decision. Besides, you're already handing it over to the Council of Ministers, that's one thing. So I guess the AKP government thinks it's gonna stay in power forever, and you know it's not real. So, since we're here to object to this particular issue... otherwise, let's really consider it. In other words, in particular, be aware, what is the most spoken word on this platform? Kurdistan Workers' What's the most talked about? It's a Kurdish problem. So this country has a fundamental problem. It's been a struggle for 30 years. Now it's said: not with negotiations, but with struggle. There is one method that is untested, which is negotiation. Thus, it is very problematic to attach the solution to such a law, to the financing of terrorism law. What needs to be done is the way we discuss negotiations now in Turkey. If this develops, we won't have to talk about it in Turkey anyway. From that point of view, let's discuss this broadly. That's why we approve of it -- part of the opposition here -- that's why they say it's a false approach. We say: Let's solve the PKK problem, let's solve the Kurdish problem. Let dialogue and negotiation develop for this. There's no need to make laws like that. Second: This is an ideological definition, if you add this to the financing of terrorism -- which Sırrı Süzeyya Leader has made a very accurate definition on most of it -- is an ideological definition, which is another point. Tomorrow he will shoot the Islamists, shoot the Democrats, shoot the Kurds. Because, for example, Hamas is a terrorist organization in international matters, Al Qaeda is a terrorist organization, something else is a terrorist organization. According to their definition of terrorism, or by the definition of imperialists, or by the United States, Turkey can actually expand everyone. Tomorrow this will come back and shoot you too. In that sense, it's a serious problem. The adoption of this law itself is problematic, but especially the fact that the TMK is being added here, the definition of international terrorism... why do we also see the need for a definition of terrorism in Turkey? So, if that's the case, let's leave the definition of international terrorism, which is already problematic in Turkey, we've been expressing from the beginning. Therefore, one step must be taken in this matter, or this is not always the case in a rational decision. You will say, "This is not the case." We will take this stand every time, and we will tell you what we've been through, Mr. Secretary. So, we're going through this one-on-one, 10,000 people are now under arrest, are they really terrorists? I mean, even the situation itself is dire. Therefore, we demand that this proposal be taken into account, especially from here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0200par0490	Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0201par0492	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion that the bill be made to the foreign states to freeze its assets and to the 7th article titled the transactions on the property found in Turkey. I salute all the people who really want terrorism to end and who don't use terrorism politically, with love and respect. Dear friends, what do we call this motion on the 7th Amendment? It's very simple, we say take this stuff out of the text. Why? In many ways, this clause is also contrary to the Constitution. However, Mr. Secretary, from where he sits, he's not like this for a long time, he's like this, so we don't really bring anything different. Even if he says so, he'll blow out the burning yogurt from milk. For example, we'll continue to comment on the issues that are written here, not on what the Minister says, but on the issues that will bind everyone else, because those seats are temporary, the main permanent law text. Dear friends, what is this substance doing? This clause says I've given the Evaluation Commission a general mandate to freeze its assets. According to this, the Evaluation Commission will request that property in foreign countries be frozen if it establishes a reasonable reason for its financing of terrorism or involvement in terrorist activities, except for the issues held in Articles 5/5/5/5. Look, who does he give this authority to? He gives that authority to the Evaluation Commission, to the Commission for Evaluation of a jurisdiction that should be in the judiciary. Regarding the property found in Turkey, the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic will file a criminal complaint to implement the provisions of Penal Code No.5271 concerning confiscation. If there is a reason for the person to commit acts of terrorism, which have been defined in Article 4 -- be careful -- by an Evaluation Commission, which is part of the executive body representatives -- the decision is being issued by the Commission, which has been issued outside the 5th and 6th amendments of the claim authority to freeze the property in question. Such a procedure must be initiated on the basis of a judicial decision. In any case, neither the United Nations contract nor the Fiscal Action Task Force organises any point in the transfer of such arbitrary authority to a commission of representatives of the executive body. Look, we know you need a judge's decision to confiscate this clause. There is a clear discrepancy in the Article 20 of our Constitution, which makes it necessary for the authority's decision to be submitted to the approval of the appointed judge within 24 hours. In addition, this provision, which has made the administration a judicial authority, clearly violates the 6th, 8th, and 9th articles of our Constitution. So we have to tell you right now that they're coming back from the Supreme Court. Let's sit down, get some proper work done. Once you remove this clause, it won't return from the Constitutional Court for at least this clause. Look, in today's day, I've had some discussions with Mr. Secretary, with a constant commitment. In these discussions, we made it very clear that if you take the gold under the pillow and give it to the bank and the bank doesn't tell you, where did you get this gold? Where did you get it from? We asked some questions to the Prime Minister, and we said to him, "How many private and corporate clients have created the gold deposits in the banks that have risen to $16 billion in the last two years?" He says, "We don't have a record." Here's the document you signed, Mr. Secretary. We said, "Sister, how many people are worth over 500,000, 1 million, 1 billion in private, legal? There's no record, there's no record," he says. We say: "Is there a suspicious procedure that has been identified by the Financial Crimes Research Board?" Yes, it says there is a suspicious procedure.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0202par0501	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0201par0502	Thirty-eight suspicious procedures have been reported so far. Now, how are you going to stop the financing of terrorism when you have these suspicious transactions? You have to answer them first. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. President, you've never interrupted, but I salute you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0203par0505	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0204par0506	I beg your pardon, Mr. Horseman?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0201par0507	Mr. President, you don't usually interrupt, but I salute you. I wasn't finished, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0204par0508	No, I get it; I didn't get the hint. By the way, we're doing it a little fast because your Group Vice President wants a roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0205par0512	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit03spe0204par0513	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but... Yeah, roll call... Mr. Tükar, Mr. İkturk, Mr. Köyöçı, Mr. Çam, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Kuvoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Özgündün, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bay Bay Bayraktutan, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özgüsam, Mr. Özsam, Mr. Özdemir. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0204par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 409. The commission is here. The government is here. There are two motions in the 8th article, and I'll have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 8th Amendment on the Obstruction of Anti-Terrorism Investigated 409. Article 1. We offer and offer to write to the Public Prosecutor's Office within 15 days of the declaration of the Republic's Office. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Turgut Dibek Ali Original Maliki Ecder Özdemir I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism from the text of Article 409. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Erol Dora Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0206par0022	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0204par0023	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0207par0024	We can't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. As always, we offer the motions again, we talk from here, but mostly the AKP does what it knows. But this law is a law that will bring some very dangerous developments to the country's agenda, a law that will deepen the present problems so far. I'm sure no law enforcement officer in this country trusts the enforcement of the judiciary. Law enforcement practices in the practical area are often criticised by government officials, which require constant political custody of the judiciary. So, now, you're presenting a new bill of law enforcement and judicial initiative in a new field. Let's just say that we described this bill as an economic genocide scheme. The goal is to condemn people to poverty, hunger and misery, targeted by the economic genocide bill. In this way, it is to take back people's intellectual abilities from owning their own struggles, because the hungry person is only concerned about his own income; he has to put aside his cultural production, his mental production, his political production. Yasar Kemal had a saying that hungry people don't have politics. You're trying to get people out of politics by creating new poor people in the country, creating new hungry people, but I want to point out that it's not going to hold up in any way. On the other hand, it won't just be something for Kurds, but it will be used to change the bourgeois class. When we look at the media today, we can clearly see the concerns, reservations, fears of every group from TUSIAD to IHH, MASLUMDER. Congressman, you laugh all the time when we talk.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0209par0033	We're not laughing at you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0034	I mean, we're not talking about anything funny here, we're talking about our own opinions. Show some respect, respect the speaker here, respect the minister.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0209par0035	Why did you take it personally?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0036	You know, you guys talk all the time. Mr. President, step in, we're losing concentration.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0210par0038	He's been doing it to us all the time, doing it to all of us.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0039	This deputy does the same thing all the time. Mr. Group Vice President, please warn this deputy of yours, this is no way to behave.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0211par0041	Mr. Baluken, please...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0042	Here, we're expressing our own opinions, whether you agree or not.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0212par0043	There's no need to talk like that.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0213par0044	Mr. Canikli does the same thing every day.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0045	Every time we talk, every time she smiles in our eyes, does that ever happen?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0212par0046	There's no need to insult me, there's no need to talk like that.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0214par0047	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0048	All our friends are complaining about the same thing.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0212par0049	There's no need to talk like that. I mean, it could be...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0050	This isn't right!
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0215par0051	I'm definitely not laughing at you, so you should know that.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0208par0052	This is also a bill that will be used to change the hands of capital, to change the bourgeois class. Let's just say that you've changed the names of cities, counties, villages, settlements with political genocide operations. In cultural genocide operations, you have locked up the intellectuals, intellectuals, politicians of this country, but neither your political genocide nor your cultural genocide have worked. You did as much as you could with the social genocide, and it didn't do any good. And this economic genocide will come in front of your politics with more severe results, so don't hesitate about it. You tried to test these people with death, and they were not afraid of death. You tried to test these people with prisons, he wasn't afraid of prisons, he put up a resistance between hunger strikes in prisons and four walls, between concrete bars, that would shake the world's public. You'll never be able to correct these people with poverty. Let's just say that whatever the size of all the genocide operations you've performed, the Kurdish people and the social opposition in Turkey will not be an easy bait. At the same time, all the people you're trying to make poor will be dynamite planted under your system for these policies you're implementing. We're warning you again about this, you've turned this country into a firehouse long enough. No matter where the damage is, it's a profit. If you are considering all Turkey's needs, expectations, expectations, hopes for the new process, bring this draft bill to this Parliament in accordance with the contract at the United Nations, we all contribute, otherwise you will have to deal with the political consequences. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0216par0058	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 8th Amendment on the Obstruction of Anti-Terrorism Investigated 409. Article 1. We offer and offer to write to the Public Prosecutor's Office within 15 days of the declaration of the Republic's Office. Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0217par0065	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0216par0066	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0218par0067	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0216par0068	Mr. Original, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Why did you applaud so little, Mr. Original Day? [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Yeah, that's it.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0219par0073	Mr. President, I especially want to thank you for getting a second round of applause. Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. Mehmet Simsek, the Minister of Finance, who just represented the government, as I begin my remarks. Why am I thanking you? I asked a question, and I said: The decision to freeze the property of the people and institutions listed in Article 1267 of this law is carried out without delay by the Council of Ministers' decision published in the Official Gazette. As part of the ruling, the Syrian Army of Syria, which operates in Syria today, is called the Al Qaeda selefi terrorist organization, including the elements of Al Qaeda selefi terrorist organization, particularly the members of the Al Nusra Front, providing logistic support and training support. Will you continue to support this law after it's passed? Otherwise, it would be against the law. It is such that even the property of the Secretary of State, the Minister of State, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of National Defence, can be frozen, let alone supported by the United Nations decision. The Minister also said that for us, the elements of al-Qaeda that led to the civil war in Syria are a terrorist organization. We don't see them as freedom fighters. I'll start by thanking Mr. Finance Minister for giving an honest, honest, rational, rational answer against the government's general policy so far. Dear friends, what does Resolution 1267 say: (AI Qaeda, Taliban, and other organisations who cooperate with them, are the obligations of states: supplying weapons and military supplies, selling and preventing transfers. The person on the list is the freeze of all rights and assets from corporations and corporations. Prohibition of entry into countries and transit from lands. Obstruction of aid in military education or technical matters or in matters related to the maintenance of weapons and military equipment. Friend, you're laughing again, but you must have a tic. I mean, I really think that, you know, as long as the vice president of the group helps this friend, he's got a problem. I mean, it's come to my attention, because BDP just called me acting group president, and now I'm looking at it, it's really funny, I mean, it's really funny. You don't know what you're doing. Yes, friends, so right now, you're helping these people to enter Syria and fuel the civil war there by interviewing foreign media with their weapons, by using the land of al-Qaeda terror elements from Chechnya, Caucasia, Egypt, Libya, Afghanistan, even the camps where the Syrian refugees are here. So, once this law is passed, you can't do that, you're guilty of financing terrorism. I'm warning you now. As for our motion, dear friends. We've submitted this motion on the 8th Amendment. It is said that the decision to freeze his assets will be carried out by the MASAK president, the President of the Financial Crimes Research Board. We say he must be a judge. Let the republic's attorney submit his demands to the D.A.'s office, and let the republic's prosecution investigate the matter, and let the republic's prosecution carry out its demands. Thus, we would like to change the term "Presidentship" to "Regional Public Prosecutor's Office" and change the term "Presidentship" to "Public Public Prosecutor's Office" again. Because here's the head of the MASAK, you know, the Treasury Department, the Financial Crimes Research Board. Again, this Evaluation Commission, which will freeze its assets, is headed by the head of the Evaluation Commission, MASAK. It consists of the Deputy Undersecretary of Prime Ministerial Security Affairs, the Deputy Undersecretary of the Interior, the Deputy Undersecretary of the Ministry of Justice, the Director of Criminal Affairs of the Ministry of Justice, the Director of Foreign Affairs and Intelligence and the Director-General of Treasury Bank and Kambiyo. It's completely administrative. It is true, however, that the way of the judge is open, but it will cause serious harm here. So I say this must be subject to judicial supervision, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0220par0082	Thank you, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0221par0085	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0220par0086	I'll submit the motion to your votes. I'll grant you a roll call. Mr. Eyidogan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Acar, Mr. Güler, Mr. Şurktutan, Mr. Şurk, Mr. Kaplan. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 9 of the same nature, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 9th Amendment bill on the prevention of the financing of terrorism in the current 409 rows. We propose that the clause be removed from its text and other substances be identified accordingly. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turgut Dibek Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Kürçı Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0222par0114	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0220par0115	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0223par0116	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0220par0117	Mr. Furman, please.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0224par0118	Dear friends, Mr. President, the discussion of this law has now become a cycle. Obviously for us, there are two critical elements to the opposition. One is the removal of the amendment to the Anti-Terror Act; the second is the removal of the Council of Ministers' decisions and the seizure of property and property without a verdict. These are not among the issues that the United Nations is seeking from member states. What the United Nations wants is sanctions to finance international terrorism. Thus, it is unthinkable that these sanctions are contrary to the basics of the United Nations. Since a fair trial, a person's rights and freedoms are covered by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, it is unthinkable for a suggestion to give such results. These are the results of the government's efforts to draft its own legislation into international law. We've already criticized this together. Now, here, of course, I see a side to the government's insistence, as I said in my previous speech, it's a continuum. So there's a continuity in all Turkish governments in terms of the concept of fighting terrorism. It's a security-based and self-destructive approach. This approach led to disaster during Tansu Ciller's governments, the disaster of silence. Kutlu War, who has been tasked with handling and correcting this Susurity disaster, has issued a report from the prime minister's office. In fact, this report led to worse consequences than Susurity, for Silence was a loose end. The Kutlu War offered to the government in order to put this incident in order, and I just read: The same is true of War Buldan in connection with the killing of Behcet Canturk. The PKK financier, which has been identified as close to 100, is one less than the list of businessmen. There was no discussion of whether the killing of Behcet Canturk would be justified, wrong or necessary. However, you have to ask certain questions. Who ordered the murder of Canturk? By whom can this authority be used? Who's responsible for who? There is no place for such questions in the state of law. The objection is not in our opinion and does not apply to reality. Since this practice is in all the countries of the world, we'll have it. Such decisions will be made within the rule of law and will be carried out in the seriousness of the state. The decision taken within the legal state is: Canturk is expected to pledge allegiance to the state, while the decision was decided by the Turkish Security Service to kill and execute a new facility after it was launched to build a printing press. Now we see this continuity in this law, with one difference. This time, instead of killing, the seizure of his property becomes a law, and for that, no one is an institution or a government officer except for the executive device. Now, an application of a government that single-handedly collects legislation, executive and judiciary in this way is antidemocratic, fascist, and cannot be guaranteed by international law, regardless of the law against fighting against it. The principle of continuity is established in the state; if so, the rules of the Holy War are sold as a mind to the government in terms of the security that surrounds the government today; these provisions have been passed quickly within a law that will be passed. The fact that the Anti-Terror Law laws are in this law, that the government has the authority to authorise people's property, is actually a candidate for triggering a new Silence event. Now, everyone from now on will seek, find, report to the government, and the government will grant their property. Will he, my friends? Will you allow it?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0225par0122	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Mr. Acar, the speaker for another motion of the same nature.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0226par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on our proposal for Article 9 of the Charter of the Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism of 409 rows. I salute you. My dear friends, many concerns about this arrangement have been raised both at the commission stage and here, but for some reason no suggestion is considered. He has fought terrorism for years, and according to ministers, as a country that lost $400 billion for this reason, has lost thousands of its citizens to terrorism, we are aware of the importance of cutting off the financing of terrorism, of course, we are all aware. My dear friends, how can so many people live in the mountains without funds, how can they survive, how can they find weapons? It's all money. For decades, these funds were somehow transferred to the terrorist organization, and they were allowed to stay in those mountains, buy weapons, buy bombs, and plant bombs at city centers. Now we have to pretend that we're stepping up on this and make sure there's no other agendas, no other plots. Turkey has also experienced a period in parliament where it sets up an inquiry commission and tries to prosecute opposition MPs. Clearly, this is not the right way. Any step that leads to such a path must be avoided. My dear friends, today, in Turkey, the state of law, the AKP of the concepts such as the rule of separation of forces, unfortunately, has been cleared out -- I apologize to my fellow citizens in this regard -- and it has been put on the shelf. We're going through a period where whatever the Prime Minister says is valid. Look, since the Prime Minister didn't want it, I have a job, I can't come. The trial stopped for a week and the law was passed. Look, the Prime Minister's decision nullifies the State's decision. Privatisation in Turkey has now become an area where justice does not work. The Prime Minister's office is crushing his decisions, tearing them apart. What kind of law state would that be, my dear friends? So, where there is no law, where the law doesn't work, how do we trust the decisions of the evaluation commission, which will be created entirely at the pleasure of power? My dear friends, it is clear that bureaucrats on this mission are not going to act against the government's will. Events, samples, they all show that. Look, every person who criticizes bureaucrats, the Prime Minister, the institution, the union, the occupational organization, is suffering from the wrath of the AKP. Unions, occupational organisations, associations are being adopted by the AKP, if not silenced. Is it possible to expect unbiased, objective, objective decisions from bureaucrats in such an environment? It's imagination. Those who defend AKP's advanced democracy, those who go to that fantasy world, are suffering today, my dear friends. The law struggles, we scream, we cry, we complain, you don't hear, but then you get yourself in trouble. Therefore, it is not acceptable for such a broad government to be granted such authority. My dear friends, look, it may not be a coincidence that Turkey is quickly moving away from democracy, from law, and that authorities like the investigation commission have been brought up, but it is absolutely unacceptable. Turkey is on the verge of breaking down, and while it is being dragged here, the basic values of the Republic of Turkey are being despised, and the regulations that contain more severe pressure to those who oppose it are unacceptable to those who oppose it. This arrangement is one of them. No one's fate should be on the edge of the Prime Minister's lips. Where there is no law, no justice, such arbitrary powers are not acceptable, my dear friends. Therefore, we await the approval of our motion to release this commission. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0227par0136	Thank you, Mr. Acar. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0228par0140	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0227par0141	But they want roll call first. Mr. Tükar, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Çam, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Acar, Mr. Bay Bay Bayututan, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Güler, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Eyidoğur, Mr. Light. I'll give you two minutes. I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yeah, there's plenty of meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 10 there are two proposals. I'll have it read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft law on preventing the financing of terrorism in the current 409 rows. In the matter, we propose and provide that the word "relationship" be removed from the text and replaced with the word "align." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Ali Serindağ Ramazan Kerim Özkan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of Article 10 of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of Article 409 concerning the Financing of Terrorism. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Erol Dora Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0229par0170	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0227par0171	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0230par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0227par0173	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0231par0174	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our amendment to Article 10 of the Law on the Financing of Terrorism, 409 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the U.N. General Assembly's agreement to prevent funding of terrorism from 1999 has become even more important after 9/11 attacks in the United States. After that, many attempts and measures have completed this contract. The measures against financing terrorism, including measures taken at the national level, continue to increase their diversity, scope, and implementation, thanks to organisations such as the international financial crime group, the United Nations and the European Union. The lists of terrorist suspects have been created and circulated, even property belonging to non-profit organizations have been confiscated. Laws on the financing of terrorism and the financial support of terrorism are now in effect. In particular, criticism has been voiced about how the suspect's name will be on the list and if he is innocent, he will be off the list. In some cases, it is not clear that a person's name will be removed from the list because there is no legal or legal way to decide whether to remove it from this list of suspects, and according to this, there is often no criminal prosecution or conviction against this person, and there is no way to determine the guilt or innocence of these indictees. Meanwhile, the impact of decisions taken by administrative authorities based on very unknown or not clear criteria can be devastating to the indictees. As part of the draft law, the Commission on the freezing of assets has been established as part of the 6th and 7th Articles. The assessment Commission will consist of the head of the Financial Crimes Research Board, the Deputy Chief of Prime Ministership Security Affairs, Deputy Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency, Deputy Undersecretary of the Interior Ministry, Chief of Justice Department, Director of Investigation and Intelligence, and the Director of Treasury Banka and Kambiyo General Directorate. All powers relating to freezing of property are left to the ministries and institutions, which means handing over the judiciary's mandate to the board and ministries. This is an extremely difficult legal situation. It is necessary to discuss how legal decisions will be made by institutions that do not have jurisdiction. This is clearly a violation of the Constitution, which means a violation of our political system built on the separation of men. Mr. President, the bill aims to control its spending, which will provide its minimum income, while the property of a true or legal person is seized, and even the spending, such as taxes, social security premiums, and so on. In the event of the bill's legalisation, the individual's private expenditures will be controlled, austerity powers will be subject to the Ministry's permission to whom he is in business relations. Since this audit and permit cannot be determined, the trade life of the person who cannot even sell without the commission's permission can eventually end. If the law is passed, the government's special task force will be able to freeze the assets of municipalities, democratic mass organisations, businessmen, and not rely on any concrete evidence or judgment. Again, once an employee of a firm is caught as a terrorist criminal, the firm's accounts will be confiscated. Thus, the government will have the authority to seize the property of anyone who opposes it. Since terrorism has been justified and its assets have been seized, the person or person of legal or private will also be discredited. The Evaluation Commission is organised as a governing institution. The decision to freeze property, not by the judicial authorities, violates the principle of separation of forces, and clearly contradicts the rule of law. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0232par0182	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft law on preventing the financing of terrorism in the current 409 rows. In the matter, we propose and provide that the word "relationship" be removed from the text and replaced with the word "align." Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and Friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0233par0189	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0232par0190	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0234par0191	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0232par0192	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0235par0194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised to discuss the change we've given the CHP on the 10th Amendment to the financing of terrorism in 409 rows. Now, that's probably the only rule of law in this bill. It is said in Article 10 that all austerities are invalid after the decision to freeze the assets of the property, but the savings are valid according to the rules of good faith of the Civil Law. All of the other substances are in violation of the Constitution or of the guarantee of both individuals and legal personalities because there is no such thing as a violation of the Constitution or a judicial decision. Now, what does our Constitution say in Article 20? The search of a person's home, the search of a person's house, the freezing of his property, is only by court order, the judge says. But what are we doing here? We find the decision of the Council of Ministers to freeze the person's property or to freeze the assets of the institutions is sufficient. With the assessment commission's proposal, we can freeze assets by the Council of Ministers' decision. No matter who they are, it's not going to happen whether they're Turkish or not, guys. As long as Article 20 is there, if you decide to freeze the property despite Article 20 of the Constitution, then this is where you act against the Constitution. There's no way to freeze his assets without a judge's ruling. Now, in Article 5 of this bill, it is stated that the United Nations Security Council sends requests to our country to freeze the assets it has taken, and the Council of Ministers publishes it in the Official Gazette. Now, the Council of Ministers can't control it, can't ask why it is, why such a decision has been made, what its motives are, and it doesn't even go through its own filter in any way. Even the Evaluation Commission, which has no connection to the judiciary, has no chance to give any opinion on that clause. Now, is that all we are now is a colonial country? We don't even ask for an assessment, we don't ask for a reason, we just apply it to the truth. It is said that these decisions made by the United Nations have to be done within the framework of this international agreement to prevent financing terrorism that we have signed. Now, once we look at this agreement that was approved in 2002, it once says that guarantees are kept according to the domestic law of each country. According to international rules, such agreements as human rights and the European Convention on Human Rights include rules that exist according to such agreements, as well as rules set by each country according to its own rules of justice. Now, we're here to make the decision from the United Nations Security Council without any way passing it through our own internal judicial filter, any kind of control filter. Why are we doing this? Why is this being done? When it comes to the UN Security Council Committee's decision, it's the word of God, and we're not discussing it. Why? Because that's what the CIA wants. As scientists described during the commission's work, the Security Council decision to sanctions in no way is made by the decisions made by those countries through their own filters, but only by the decisions of CIA and international intelligence organisations, effective intelligence organisations, and is often made -- 100 per cent -- against Muslim people, organisations and other organisations. Now, are these the only Muslim organizations in the world? Muslim states, Muslims, according to the terrorist CIA alone, there are no other terrorist organizations. Can that happen, guys? Now, there's a story about the CIA today. The U.N. Open Watch Institute -- I think it has a name like that -- says here that the CIA has secret prisons. In these secret prisons of the CIA, especially in Eastern European countries and countries like us, it is said that they were captured, held by people who were considered terrorists at the Adana Incirlik Air Base, and then taken to Guantanamo. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, are these demands of such a major terrorist, the United States and the CIA, to be met without question, friends? Is that what you're gonna say yes to? You need to make a decision. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0236par0206	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0237par0207	I'm fulfilling the roll call. Mr. Tükar, Mr. İkturk, Mr. Çam, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özgün, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Güler, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Bayuttutan, Mr. Süncü, Mr. Özturkcı, Mr. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 11 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second sentence of Article 11 of Article 11 of Article 11 of "Procession on the Financing of Terrorism" in the 409 rows in which it is being discussed is "On the day these decisions are published in the Official Gazette, the decision to freeze its assets will be delivered to the interested person and the organisation by the most serial means, and we propose that the decision be changed to the relevant person and the decision be made to be made to result from the date of the declaration." Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Turgut Dibek Malik Ecder Özdemir Ali Serindağ I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Article 11 of "Procession on the Financing of Terrorism" in 409 rows be removed from the draft text. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Secret Sakık Sebahat Tuncel Is the commission in?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0238par0236	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0237par0237	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0239par0238	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0237par0239	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0240par0241	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Of course, while I was away, our dear Lütfü brother, who insulted me so much... but I'm not going to answer them because I've explained here, what I intend to do, that we have no problem with the people from the Balkans, the Caucasus. We've repeated it 10 times, but you don't have a different frost on your hands. You're just doing politics on it. We covered it up for ourselves. We have a law, and I don't want to answer too much as a rule of law. So we have a lot of answers, but we're negotiating an important law. I mean, it doesn't suit me, in a word.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0241par0243	We didn't close it. I'm from the Caucasus.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0240par0244	As we've said before, this law is really a law to discipline a different species. We've told you, dear friends, that Turkey has entered a different process, so on the one hand, we're all talking about a process where negotiations, debates, social compromises are being reached. Even the Prime Minister is making statements about this abroad. We've made it clear to him, and we're giving him a friendly warning; yes, we care about this process, you're an important actor, you have a great contribution to the process, and you should. There's great support for the people in this country behind you, but when this people give you this support, we have to go back to our group, sir, and these must go away. Let's give up the promise, we have to save ourselves from the debate over the media as soon as possible. This group has a will, and everyone has to respect the will of this group. All the actors of this group have a say and decision in the negotiations, but the group must decide. Now, on the one hand, these talks continue, but on the other hand, by including this law, the Anti-Terror Law, which is open-ended, to punish some of them, it's not called peace, it's called a new policy of Turkey for 40, 50 years, it's a new project. This project is really... you're trying to discipline the Kurdish bourgeois again, unless you've ever included the Kurdish bourgeois. Dear friends, look, in this law, there's really no guarantee of anyone's goods. I mean, I just did. In this law, the Kurds alone, yes, the Kurds in the first degree have serious doubts and concerns about this, but we say that not all opposition parties have any guarantees on this issue. There's no law out of this law, there's no brotherhood in this law, there's no fear in that law. The laws you've created with fear, the laws you've legalized, have never solved the problem in this country, we've always told you as a friend. The solution to the problem is to turn from struggle into negotiation. On the one hand, you've given up the fight, you've been making the talk all the time, but we're looking, again, you're developing a new way of fighting with Sharq. What is your fear? You have fears about Kurds, doubts. Brother, come solve this problem. We have to sit down and negotiate, talk, argue, to solve this problem. Look, notice that certain groups -- I'm speaking from a few years of Parliament experience -- do you know what they're just singing here? I don't know, they don't make politics out of it, they don't make politics out of it. There's a people in this geography. These people have democratic rights. How will you build the democratic rights of these people? You can't do that just by swearing and insulting. And after that, we'll make it very clear to you: if you insult us, you'll get your answer on this stand. We're offering you a project on a solution to a problem. You guys go ahead and say your projects, but that's not gonna happen by swearing. That's not enough, sir, it's not enough to curse the values of the Kurds here, you return and insult the head of the federal district in South Kurdistan. Who can give you that right? Do you have the right? Who are you people? Who is this? How can you have the right to insult the values of Kurds so much? Give up that language. This language does not bring peace. This language does not support our unity. So... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've just said it from our point of view, and we've been saying it for a few days...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0242par0250	You're out of time.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0240par0251	Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0243par0253	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the Grand National Assembly 11 of the current 409 rows of "The Bill of Law on Obtainment of Terrorism." The second sentence of the article's second sentence, "The day these decisions are published in the Official Gazette, the relevant person and the organisation, who have been given the decision to freeze their assets, will be notified by the most swift means. We propose and propose that the decision be changed to the form "Earth of Conspiracy' from the date of the notification. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0244par0260	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0243par0261	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0245par0262	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0243par0263	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0246par0265	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to start by saying this, because sometimes we can't use time very well, and what we really want to say can be incomplete. First of all, I would like to point out that I strongly condemn the attacks against members of the Istanbul Bar Board of Directors and the Directors of the Association of Modern Lawyers a few weeks ago, or rather, to defend them. Friends of both the Association of Modern Lawmakers and the Istanbul Bar Association are only guilty of defending the defense. There have been serious attacks on our friends as a result of lawyers' struggle to ensure that their rights are not blocked in any way. Some of our friends -- our friends in the League of Common Legalists -- are in prison now, and since they advocated defence with our friends at the Istanbul Bar Board, stop your unlawful judgments against the AKP government, stop your attacks on defence. Since they have said that without the permission of the Ministry of Justice, there is also an indictment against the Law, against the rights of Law. I strongly condemn the attack on this defense. I think I have the right to speak on behalf of all the lawyers, on behalf of all the lawyers. I strongly condemn this attack. You'll never shut the lawyers up. Maybe you silenced the judges, maybe you scared the prosecutors, but you'll never shut the lawyers up. There's a saying of Molierac, you know: Lawyers have never used slaves, but lawyers have never had masters. We will never have masters, we will fight independently and according to the law. On behalf of all the lawyers, I am honored to announce this to all of you. What we have to say about Article 11 of the Dair Charter to prevent the financing of terrorism in 409 rows, is that our motion is very clear. Article 11 states that the decision to freeze assets is as follows: With the official declaration of its decision in the newspaper, all the laws and objections of the future begin from then on. Dear friends, how many people read the official newspaper? We discussed it at the commission. In fact, we thought a motion could be submitted here by the AKP, but unfortunately, it didn't. How many people read the official newspaper? Even though he does not read the official newspaper, you start the period of appeal, even though he does not know how to publish the official Gazette, even though he does not know how to freeze his assets. I don't know what they are either. But you're saying that it starts from this date. There, then, the loss of rights will be very serious. If people don't know this, if they don't find out, if they don't object, if they don't have an effective domestic legal pathway or an internal objection, then again, within the framework of the United Nations agreement, the state of the Republic of Turkey will be complained by many under the European Convention on Human Rights, and will face very serious compensation. Now, friends, the lawyers, they know that we said, "Let the foreclosures be enforced." Let it be carried out in the official newspaper with its ad, but after that, let it be delivered to individuals, organizations, organizations, and begin the duration of the appeal. I don't understand why it's called no. If someone really knows or the Minister wants to explain it, let them explain it. Will the period of appeal begin with the ad in the official newspaper without notification? We can't deliver, it's too hard. It's trying. Bill 7201 is very clear. If those people are anonymous, if they can't be notified, they can be announced through the newspaper. If you could just tell me why it's called no, when there's such an open sentence -- with two or three newspapers published in Turkey -- when you can be submitted, when you can be published and you can start the appeal period from then on -- I really want to be convinced about it. So, please, if possible, I think there should be a motion on this matter by negotiating the monopoly, because we're playing with people's rights, their security, their legal security. You know what our ancestors say. Now, you're going to freeze all the assets, expenses, funds, everything, and you're not going to deliver to the people, and you're not going to deliver to the organizations, and then you're going to say, "If you'd refused, you'd missed your deadline." Now, you're bringing in a system like this, and as I just said, in Article 5... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0247par0277	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0248par0280	Mr. President, I've just received some insults from the BDP Group Vice President. I'd like word on this occasion for bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0247par0281	I'm taking a break from it.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0248par0282	You didn't, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0249par0283	No, it wasn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0247par0284	I'm taking a break.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0248par0285	You didn't, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0249par0286	No, it wasn't, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0247par0287	I did.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0248par0288	You didn't, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0249par0289	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0247par0290	Yeah, I'm taking a break, we're in, we're out.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0249par0291	You didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0250par0292	No, you didn't, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0247par0293	No, I think I'm taking a break.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0249par0294	No, you didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0250par0295	You didn't, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0251par0296	It was after the break, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0252par0297	Didn't I take a break?
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0250par0298	You didn't.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0252par0299	I'll take a look. Wait a minute, for Mr. Canikli... I thought I was really taking a break.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0253par0301	Mr. President, there is no insult.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0252par0302	But anyway, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0253par0303	No, there was some behavior there, about...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0252par0304	Let me see if I'm taking a break first.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0254par0305	You're on a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0252par0306	We're taking a break. I mean, before the break, I'm sorry. Now, I promise Mr. Canikli, that he wanted to speak according to the 60th article. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0255par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today, in the 62nd Union, a speaker mentioned a claim that our Prime Minister had accounts in Switzerland, referring to WikiLeaks documents. This has come up before, and our Prime Minister has made a very clear, precise statement about it. First of all, it's a huge, huge lie, a professional lie. No documents, no information. It's been stated, it's been said, if you have information, documents, documents... if you have it, it's just gossip, if you have it... nothing has ever been revealed, but it's still a professional lie to keep it going. It's just a slander, a slander. I'd better state that. Another expression that shows how this approach involves a professional lie is this -- look, it's said that 7,000km of land was occupied by Greece in Turkey. That's exactly what he says, yes, that's exactly what the reports say. When we were supposed to be... Also, some of the islands say... 16 islands are occupied by Greece, which is owned by Turkey. I mean, could there be such an irrational, indiscriminate explanation? Dear friends, can such a lie be such a slander? So the record's breaking. I don't think there's a record of lying in a conversation that can be found anywhere in the world, it can't be seen. I've been promised for the record, Mr. President. These lies and slanders need to be pulled back, they need to be apologized. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0256par0318	They're selling property to strangers.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0257par0319	I did, according to the 60th article.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0258par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. The Deputy Director of the BDP Group has just referred to me here and has used the expression "Mr. Group President, warn this deputy of yours, it will not be rude." He used these expressions to make a statement that I laughed at him. First of all, I'd like to say that I've never laughed at him in any way. However, if a person does not believe what he says, he may think that those who listen to him are laughing at him. And secondly, if you see me laughing from where you're looking, it's a happy thing for me because if you do politics over crying and blood and tears, it might be hard for you to laugh, I thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0259par0325	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0260par0326	Mr. President, now, look, this application isn't right. There's bullying...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0261par0327	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0260par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to point out that your application is not correct. If there was, there would be a mistake, an instant, and he would answer here. Congressman, all three of our deputies have made the same move, and all of our deputies have complained about the same thing. As a matter of fact, the fellow deputy from the Republican People's Party who came here after me was also offended by your attitude during his speech again. Therefore, it is your duty to review your attitude toward this course of action. If there are four people in one place who are uncomfortable with your attitude and behavior at the same time, the problem is not with four people, it's probably with you. Therefore, we have warned you from here to correct your attitude. Mr. Group, the Vice President of the United States, of course, has a duty and responsibility because it is the duty of the group's vice presidents to maintain the general order of the group. If an MP's attitude, his behavior, the speaker's motivation, his concentration, then of course, we have the right to seek intervention. I'm returning all the other sentences you mentioned. We've never done politics over blood, tears, pain; on the contrary, we all do politics every day at the tip of a cold barrel, at the cost of death.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0262par0334	Yeah, that's your negotiating partner, why are you yelling? He's your partner!
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0260par0335	If we make a list of the mayors, executives, lawmakers who have so far lost the lives of the BDP, maybe they'll beat your group here. Next time you're talking to BDP, I'm telling you to watch your mouth. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0263par0338	Mr. President, the words of our friend here are very clear. And if there's a way of acting that he thinks is wrong, then there's no way to eliminate it with another insult, with a curse.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0260par0339	Mr. President, there's no swearing.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0263par0340	Let me... no, look, don't be rude! I've already told you from here, I've tried to express it during these conversations. That's not the way it works. You can tell me, check your friend. You can say all of this is possible, but it doesn't give anyone the right to insult you like that.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0260par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-06sit04spe0264par0343	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-06sit05spe0264par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. We will continue the talks of Bill 409. [[Continue]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Agriculture, Forest and Village Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place, offering the Law on Underwaters to change the Law. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports on the Approval of the Defence Industry Business Union Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kosovo. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (February 7th 2013), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken on Thursday (February 7th 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
