tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Özcan Uupınar, a member of the Zonguldak MP who wants to talk about investments in Zonguldak province. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to investments in our Zonguldak province during our AK PARTI administrations. I hereby salute your high council. AS in all our provinces since 2002, the EC PARTI governments have continued their investment in education, health, transport, CSEDES, BELDES and many other areas in our Zonguldak province. The investments of our Transport Ministry in our province continue in various areas. We've only got 10 miles to go, and our current target is a double mile, and they're working fast to finish the double road. Double road work from Yeniça to Zonguldak is under way. Sapçı, Don't worry-1, Sadz-2 tunnels have been built by the contractor company. The roadworks between Yerek and Eğeli continue rapidly. The construction of the road between Eregli-Zonguldak will be completed shortly. The Eregian Environment Road Project, beginning with the arctic exit, is complete. The Zonguldak Environment Road Project was approved and tendered; further, it will be linked to Filyos in a double way with the Kilimli Coast Road Project. In addition, the Zonguldak-Karabuk inter-carb railway signalification and regeneration of rail lines are under way. One of our major steps in transportation was to activate Zonguldak Airport. Besides, there have been major breakthroughs in health. In particular, our 400-bed hospitals in the Black Sea Ereğli are rapidly under construction, the 100-bed hospital, and the 100-bed project in the Teacuma, again, in the Black Sea. Our 700-bed hospital project at Zonguldak headquarters has been located in the tender stage at the TOKI. Speaking of projects that will continue to be produced or produced in our department of Youth and Sports: the youth centre in Zonguldak, the synthetic grass surfaced football field in our Kandilli district, the araplı synthetic grass surface area, the construction of the central gym, the construction of the Alaplı Gümeli gym, the home building of 300 students in Turkey, the home production of 500 students with capacity in Alaplı, among the projects of the Habit-Cemil Ulupınar Anadolu Teacher's boarding school, and the construction of 100 beds in Şimk. Again, in the days of our governments, the palaces of justice were built in our districts of Halek, Ereğli and Alaplı. Besides, our district of Alaplı has a government mansion. At the center, again, the additional palace of justice will be built. Also, work on Beycuma Open Prison continues. During this period, temporary solutions on water have been permanent, and with nearly 13 million investments, tunnels have been opened, allowing Zonguldak (Zonguldak) to reach water every day as a result of false investments in the past. However, the mining museum has been held at the center of our province and will be inaugurated in the coming process. There have been some very good developments in education. The number of kindergartens, which are four, has now risen to 14, our current 37 high schools have reached 68, as of today. At Zonguldak headquarters, at Eregli, and at Halfek, our teachers began to serve in their new buildings. We have 10 universities of education, 3 institutes, 3 universities of higher education, 6 universities of applied sciences. There are 12,671 students in the centre, 21,628 students in our districts of Araplı, Ereğli, Tekıcuma, Şek and Gökçebey. The number of students has also increased in the number of classrooms, student dorms, and beds, along with the increase in the number of students at the Bulent Ecevit University. In our province, the home of a thousand-bed student has been opened to the ministry during our administrations. One of our major and comprehensive projects in our province is the Filyos Valley Project, not just the Western Black Sea project, but a world project. About 20 billion dollars in this project is being carried out quickly, both by the private sector and by the public. The discovery of stone coal, which was found by Mehmet Long on November 8, 1829, is a symbol of our province, and our province is among the most strategic cities in Turkey. Our black diamond has given coal, bread, work, food to thousands of people for years, contributed to the economy, not just to the economy, but to the social and cultural life of our region. In our time, 4,651 workers were taken to TTK. The application for TTK's recruitment of personnel to the treasury has been approved, and applications for 195 unqualified workers and 61 officers continue. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Huseyin Aygün. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0004par0034	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When it comes to prisons, shall we, of course, talk about the drama of children who came from Pozanti, type Antalya L, who had been raped, or about the children whose screams we heard just a few days ago because they were beaten with a hose in Şakran, which is really hard to make a decision on conscience. But like Hilmioglu the Conqueror, I'd like to start by saying that there are a lot of other people's stories, other than the celebrities you've sworn to put in prison today, who seem to be very powerful in the past, that people die every day, that the House doesn't know about it. Two days ago, he was sentenced to two years in prison in İstanbul's Ümraniye E type, and he died two days ago on 28 May, in prison for not being postponed. It's because he wasn't sent to treatment, he was put in a cell. A criminal criminal, no one hears his voice, no politician takes care of him, we can only hear who he is after he's dead. Again, I can tell you about Job Yural. He's been detained as a driver at the border, he's been under arrest for two years, he has an anemia patient and he can't see an eye, he can't be cured in prison, but he stays in solitary. Last Monday, Taylan Chintai was brought in from Diyarbakır exactly a week ago, where cancer cells were removed from his body, followed by Sincan No. 1. He was taken to a lu f type, beaten and thrown in a cell for refusing to search naked. Maybe it's unprecedented in the world, lawmakers, that a young man from cancer surgery was beaten and thrown into a cell, but it happened in Turkey, and a boy with cancer stayed in solitary for three days. On May 7, Irfan Eskibağ died in Sincan, a prison in this city. No lessons were learned. Abdulsamet Steel is in the same place right now waiting for his death, and if he doesn't evacuate, he will die because Abdulsamet's blood cancer has to take blood every day, and his treatment is in a cell -- and you can't appreciate it -- can't be done. I asked the Ministry of Justice a question, and he answered very detailed, Minister, usually the ministers don't answer that in detail, but according to Mr. Minister, one person from Turkey's prisons dies now in 2.5 days. One person dies in two and a half days when they're hit by years, that's incredible. Between 2002 and 2012, 1,734 people died. There are now 411 heavy patients, and a large number of them are normal treatable diseases; they're approaching the death penalty because they can't be treated in a cell or in prison. 89 people died in prison in 2002, while in 2011, the number rose to the record of 268 in the history of the Republic of Turkey. So it's clear that we're dealing with a major issue in prisons, a drama that kills people, and people that kills people, day by day, hour by hour, but unfortunately nothing is being done. Let me finish my five - minute period with the story of Mete Teeth, which I followed closely and visited at home on Sunday. Mete was treated for chemo for a hundred and seven days. He was in prison for nearly three years, brought from Kandira to the hospital in Maltepe, with ring vehicles, 40 degrees hot, and forensics didn't file any reports on him. Finally, in front of his friends' prison, judges heard the voices of the children in front of the Çağan Courthouse, where their family fought in Ankara, in the building of their attorneys' forensic branch office in Ankara, where police wanted to spray and shake the baton, and they evacuated Mete. Without even a forensic report, they couldn't stand the reactions. I visited her at home on Sunday, and she's suffering from ovarian cancer, which is a very severe disease. And I can't help but wish him a cure, because the government usually evacuates people close to death, and when they die out there, they throw the responsibility away. In this regard, I can only ask God to make sure Mete is alive and standing. Let my last words be this: In spite of all that is in the prisons, salute those who resist a day of opposition with the verses of Nazim Hikmet. Say hello to your friends who are out there eating gas and being retried for taking care of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Reşat MP, who wants to talk about Iraqi Turks' problems, expectations and measures that need to be taken. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0006par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the Iraqi Turks' problems and measures that must be taken. I salute the High Council. In recent years, the Iraqi Turks have faced heavy attacks, planned destruction. It is forgotten that Kerkuk is a 1,000-year-old Turkish city, and all Turkish-owned attacks continue to increase. Previously on Kurdisation policies in Erbil and Kerkuk are now being implemented intensively all over Iraq. The country is under pressure to make Turkishmen, who have studied and are businessmen, financially weakened. Pesmerge regions and people are being enriched, Turkmen, on the contrary, are being tried to destroy. Concealed censuses, rigged elections, post-ops in Kerkuk. The heavy attacks continue to increase day after day. Turkmen leaders are being wiped out one by one. Don't let a Turkmen get killed every day. Don't let him get hurt. Barzani trusts the United States in doing so. It's a vicious attack. All right, who will the Turks trust? I'm sure everyone will say "Turkey." Unfortunately, however, the AKP government has never claimed the Turks. Turkey's just giving advice. Today, in Iraq, they are armed and armed by central Iraqi forces. With all kinds of weapons in their hands, the Turks are completely unarmed, even the bread knives in their homes have been collected by the pessimarchs. In view of these circumstances, it is necessary for the Turks to live safely and peacefully in Musul, Kerkuk, Tuzhurmatu, Telafer. If the Iraqi Turks are not strong, there will be no security in the eastern and southeast of our country. Turkey's security must not be forgotten that it has passed through Mosul, Kerkuk, Cyprus. Of course, the nosebleed of a Muslim person in Palestine upsets all of us. The invasion of Somalia, Arakan, and Mali. The attack, and the death of humans will burn all our hearts. But what is being done by the government for the Turks in Iraq, both Muslim and Turkish? If one tenth of the attention to Palestine were shown here, the Iraqi Turk would be encouraged, revived, and our great nation and state would be profitable. Unfortunately, the Iraqi Turks are abandoned, abandoned, abandoned. I want to sort out what needs to be done: In Iraq, a council of consultations, a council of advisers, a Turkmen assembly must be established for the Turks, which will certainly cover every section. Also, the Turkish-based strategy centre must be established. The Turkmen must unite their rhetoric, their political forces must be united. Any work by the Turks in Iraq must be closely supported, followed, encouraged. Moreover, when it comes to the Turkish people, they must have one punch, one voice, and one heart. There may be disagreements between them, but if it's about Turkmen, splits must be put aside, unity and unity must be put in the way of everything. Turkmen must not give up their land. The population must be protected, the migration must be stopped. If the land is lost, the case will be lost; it must not be forgotten. Within the integrity of the Iraqi state, the status of the Turks must be properly established. The Iraqi Turks must be among the founding elements of the state, as they were in 1925, which should be supported in any way. Because there are over 3 million Turks living in Iraq today. As Turkey, the fate of the Iraqi Turks should not be left to Barzani, where the PKK supports and acts together. A relationship with the Central Government must also be established. Also, relations between Turkey and Iraq should be made through Turkmen. I'm calling from here: The Turkmen case is being lost because of the wrong policies of the AKP government and the State Department. He's taking control of Iran, which is missing from Turkey. Iraqi Turks and Syrian Turks are losing a lot of their lives with the government's wrong policies. Both history and the great Turkish nation will not forget any of what was done, and one day they will surely ask for their account. It is a 1,000-year-old Turkish home, and the Ottoman-run region should live in peace, in peace, in the interest of Turkey. He says it's our owe to take care of the Iraqi Turk and the Syrian Turk, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0007par0068	Thank you, Mr. Right. I will fulfill your promises according to the 60th article. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0008par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkish trucks who transport to Arab countries, especially Saudi Arabia, use the sea route because of the civil war in Syria, as it is known. For the past two months, more than 500 trucks and drivers from the ports of Mersin and Alexander have been confined to Egypt and Saudi Arabia. In two months, 250 Turkish truck drivers have been waiting to cross over to Egypt in the port of Duba in Saudi Arabia, while as many drivers and trucks have been waiting to move to Saudi Arabia. Most drivers don't have enough money to eat. The stranded drivers who got to us said that there was no tree in their shadow where they were, that the foreign authorities were afraid to meet with them. Mr. Davutoglu should stop being the interior minister of neighbouring countries and immediately, the government must act to bring our truck drivers trapped in Egypt and Saudi Arabia to Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0009par0077	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0010par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. The trees are being removed and slaughtered in our province of Istanbul, the taxi square, the Travel Park. The trees there are nests of birds, and a square where our city really breathes air is an oxygen tank, and instead of this -- the construction of a runt-based project -- is daggering Istanbul, slaughtering nature. I demand that the sensitive MPs, ministers, our people, take over our province of Istanbul, Gezi Park. My respects.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0011par0082	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, violence against health workers during the AKP period continues rapidly. Last week, in Ağrı, two physicians were able to survive a fatal attack at the last minute. Yesterday, in the heart of Ankara, a woman was attacked with a knife at the Numune Hospital. I condemn all these attacks. Most of all, I condemn the AKP. Why? Because he's pretending to be asleep. If he was asleep, he'd be awake by now. The government does not meet the proposals of the Commission, which investigates increased violence against health workers and publishes its report. How do I market health? He travels from land to land and doesn't care about his own employees. May God help the Prime Minister, on the other hand, to change the agenda. On the other hand, he had no choice but to hug Sultan Selim. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0013par0087	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0014par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Tokat Province, Kelkit Valley, the Plain of Kazova, Artova, Zile Plain farmers, unfortunately, are having a very difficult and difficult time. They almost didn't plant their fields, and under debt, they were faced with moaning. The largest debt is at the point of diesel, fertilizer and medicine. The high level of OTV and VAT is not dropping fertilizer on their fields, nor does it put diesel on their tractors. At this point, the government is expecting immediate support. The heads of the agricultural chamber shout with all their might, 'Help!' So I say we must hear the voice of our farmers, and the farmer must be supported. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0015par0092	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0016par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. The producers of our village, the Cherry League, built a cold storage facility. But unfortunately, it's not possible for him to be able to contribute to the economy now that he doesn't have a road or electricity. I wish that this facility, which is world-famous cherry growers and these cherries, could contribute more to the economy, should be activated immediately. I'd like to request the assistance of our Minister of Transport and the relevant ministries at the point of this season's arrival. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0017par0097	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, TÜİK is currently conducting a survey under the name Research on Religious Life in Erzincan. In this survey, what religion do you belong to from house to house? What religion do you do it according to? Does an angel enter the house when a dog enters? Do you play the lottery? Questions like that are asked. What is this, not a marking? I condemn it, and I want it stopped as soon as possible. In Erzincan, a second issue is that a really terrible number of animals are now dying from the hilt disease. We know that a human with 65 animals has 44 dead. The Department of Agriculture is not doing any work on this, and it's not being paid, it's not being vaccinated, because it's out of the category of compensated diseases. It's completely deserted. I'd like to be shown the necessary sensitivity in this matter as well.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0019par0102	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0020par0104	Mr. President, thank you. Malatyaspor and 44 Malatyaspor this year, unfortunately, suffer a lot from the Football Federation. 44 Malatyaspor won the championship, became the leader, but unfortunately, his rights are not granted. Last Wednesday evening, during the match between New Malatyaspor and Fethiyespor, the referee officially ate Malatya's rights. In the last few minutes, a penalty made the wrong penalty, preventing our Malatyaspor from ascending to the upper league. I condemn the federation that did this to Malatya, and I complain to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey about the federation that always eats the Malatian's rights and always harms Malatya.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0021par0108	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, would like to present a matter that should attract the attention of Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar. Port management in Artvin Province of Hopa has been active for some time. However, during the shipment of coal, a large coal dust, even a cloud is forming, making its dwellings around it very uncomfortable. Especially yesterday, our citizens called me personally. In the area of about 500 families, a dust cloud of coal is leaking into houses, causing a major environmental and health scandal. Public offices, such as the police department and the courthouse, also operate across the port. Although citizens in the region have gathered signatures and reached relevant authorities, there has been no solution, no improvement. I have benefited once again in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to have the matter examined immediately by the relevant authorities and to address the major environmental problem in the vital area by the ministry. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0023par0113	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0024par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, yesterday afternoon, we burned 300 hectares of land, forest area, with a forest fire in the vicinity of Manisa Soapcubeli and Gökceler village. With the fire around here, our villagers have become victims. Due to weather conditions, forest fire crews and local city fire departments could hardly put out the fire around 9:00 p.m. After the fire was contained, the landscape revealed once again how much we should care about our forests. Because of the fire, I offer my sincere condolences to the village of Gökceler and the people of Manisa and to all our people, and wish that the work be done as soon as possible to repair the damage caused by the fire. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0025par0119	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0026par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the KPSS 2012 results, hundreds of thousands of teachers waiting for the appointment of officers are also requesting a second appointment in June. While the Minister of National Education is here, I would like to point out that we will stand by any work he does on this matter. The second issue is: The victims continue following the Simav earthquake on 19 May 2011. I demand the immediate fulfillment of the commitments made to my citizens of Simav, especially by government officials, concerning either strengthening the Simav State Hospital or building a new hospital, which has been evacuated in particular due to the damage caused by this earthquake. I'm inviting the government on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0027par0125	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0028par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, yesterday, a van carrying farm workers from Adıyaman came out of control and fell off the bridge into a ditch. Ten female workers were killed and 13 injured in the accident when the van was wrecked. First, we offer God's mercy to all our fellow citizens who have lost their lives, and to their relatives, and to their families. A similar accident occurred in Bethüşşebap. Again, seven of our citizens were killed in a van that rolled into a ditch. Again, we offer them the grace of God, and our condolences to their relatives and to all our people. In particular, these traffic accidents are a very serious problem, and unfortunately, they continue to take lives in our country. The government of this matter must take sufficient, necessary measures. We think the House should handle this by establishing a commission if necessary. On the other hand, the difficulties of seasonal farm workers are very serious. These people who are hoarded in truck safes, tractor safes, women, children, and children, they lose their lives every year in traffic accidents... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And where they're going, these workers who have been discriminated against have to take the initiative of the House for many of the problems they've experienced from education to health, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0029par0133	Thank you. We're going on the agenda...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0030par0135	Mr. President, one of the two telephone operators assigned to our MPs has been out of work, even since Tuesday. Let me put your name here, Avea doesn't work. I'd appreciate it if you'd take care of this. He doesn't work within the General Assembly Hall, he works when we go backstage, he doesn't work here. I'm supplying.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0029par0137	Okay, I'm gonna ask the tech guys right now. Thank you very much. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The province of Sivas is shrinking in population and economically every day. In researching the reasons for migration and economic reduction, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Institution. [[Slap]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Manisa]] Sivas is a province in Turkey's Central Anatolian region, the Black Sea region and the East Anatolian region. Since the province of Sivas was in the area of Mesopotamia and between the caravans, it became a centre visited by merchants during the Seljucians. In our country, Sivas is the most Seljulid artifacts in the country since Conium. Sivas became the province's capital in the Ottoman Empire and became the flag of Amasya, Çorum, Tokat, part of the provinces of Malatya and Kayseri. As noted in the "Sivas" movement of Çelebi Çelebi, Sivas is one of the most important states of its time. 40 elementary schools, 1,000 shops, 18 inn, 40 fountains are mentioned. Many governors have been appointed to Sivas, including many roads, bridges, inns, and mansions that may not be forgotten by Halil Rifat Pasha. Sivas, an important settlement since history was recorded, has maintained its importance over the centuries, and especially the beginning of a national struggle has given him the most valuable value of history. In 2000, Sivas had a population of 755,090 to 627,050, with an area of 28.488 square feet. The city of the Red Sea connects to the Central Anatolian climate, the Yermarmamak Black Sea, and the River Basin connect to the Eastern Anatolian climate. That's 3 water, 3 roads, 3 different cultures. There are natural borders to the north, the Kelkit Valley, and to the east, the Kuruchay Valley, and Mount Jaman, which is the length of the Köse Mountains, and the mountains of Kulmac in the south, and the mountains of Wood, and the mountains of Hezanite, and the mountains of Karababa, Akdağs, and the mountains of Tülbel. Since the industrial sector has not developed enough in the permanently migratory province, the province's GDP indicators remain at low levels. The GDP indicators per capita are below the average of both the country and the interior Anatolian region. The province is among the backward regions of the country. The province, covered by the First Grade Development Priority Areas (KCE), could say that the economic potential that exists may not have been evaluated particularly relatively rich underground sources. The dominant sector in the province is the agricultural sector, and the growth and efficiency of this sector is low. The manufacturing industry, which is particularly important for economic development, has not developed. For these reasons, the province's economic growth rate is dropping, so the gap is not closed with the developed regions. The concreteisation of its position within the geographical region and the country's economy is of great importance in local economies. The province's economy is generally shaped by agriculture, animalism, weaving, skin, mining and small crafts. Agriculture, construction and industry sectors, which are production sectors, and trade, transport and communications sectors that are service sectors, have not been fully developed. The economic contribution of agriculture and livestock from the production sectors to the Sivas economy is very limited. Its geographical position, the limitations of its natural, human and economic resources, and the failure to develop in the industrial sector for many reasons prevents the province's economic growth. In terms of one of the basic dynamics of socioeconomic development, in terms of advanced manpower, Sivas is increasingly at a disadvantaged position because of his constant and intense migration. Other obstacles to socioeconomic development are inadequacies in technical and social infrastructure. It's past time to take care of Sivas. We believe the TBMM will take over without further delay. On all these grounds, we have a motion to investigate. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the restrictions of press freedom in our country and the political issues facing journalists, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Yalova]] 3) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] 4) Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 22) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] 24) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 25) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] At the top of the problems facing journalists in our country are the Anti-Terror Law, which restricts freedom of expression, and the relevant articles of the Turkish Penal Code, but that is not all the problems journalists face. Due to the relevant laws, there are numerous assessments that journalists have been driving themselves or unable to perform their professions because of fear of trial. Although the number of journalists is variable because of new arrests every day in our country, it is known that many journalists have been in prison and have been tried for writing or news articles written by thousands of journalists. The figures on the number of arrested journalists in our country have been reached as a result of full relative assessments. For, each institution or authority may choose to make a definition of a journalist based on its position or position, whether or not to consider arrested persons as journalists. However, anyone who makes a living as a journalist is a journalist. A person does not need to be insured under Law 212 and therefore receive a yellow press card to be considered a journalist. Of course, it is ideal for every journalist to work under the law that guarantees his rights. The Turkish Grand National Assembly's effort on this issue will also help journalists in our country to regain their rights. However, the government is trying to make the freedom of expression in our country invisible, trying to reduce the number of arrested journalists, the definition of journalism, or whether they have a yellow press card, to make the problem even more gangrene. Several civil society or trade organisations, including the Journalists Without Borders Organization (RSF), the Journalists Protection Society (CPJ) and the Modern Journalists Association in our country, the Association of Journalists, Turkey's Journalists Union and human rights organisations, stress in various statements and reports that the restrictions of press freedom in Turkey have been grave. In our country, the government's efforts to determine the level of freedom of the press are one of the biggest problems. It has become inevitable to investigate how many arrested journalists are in our country, how many journalists are on trial without arrest or arrest, and the factors that are responsible for these trials. The pressure of power on the press poses a major threat to the present and future of our democracy. It is vital that a research commission is set up to investigate practices aimed at restricting freedom of information and the pressures on the press, identify the existing negative table, and determine measures to be taken in this regard. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, in order to investigate, identify, detect statistics on this issue, examine the antidemocratic aspects of directors that have been produced in universities, and prevent attacks and pressures against students, we provide the Parliamentary Assembly to investigate the role of the YKK in these oppressive practices and to establish the policies needed for the construction of free, autonomous and democratic universities. 09/03/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Freedom of thought and expression is the basic principle of democracy. In any situation where this principle is violated, it also brings serious problems in human rights and freedoms. The Constitution of September 12th coup, which stands the biggest obstacle to antidemocratic and freedoms, and all institutional structures, which September 12th have uncovered, have been discussed with an understanding based on one language, identity, faith and culture, and have been built on it. The SEC is the head of these institutions. After the coup, attacks on students, pressures are supported by disciplinary investigations and penalties of university administrations to intimidate students fighting for democratic demands by universities. Over the years, students have been fighting for the removal of the SEC. However, this institution remains the most important mechanism for government control over young people. The struggles against social problems of university students are viewed as a danger by university administrations and the NGO itself and are imposed on students with pressure and difficulty. In particular, left-wing, opposition students, Kurdish students are the most affected by these pressure policies. Political, economic, cultural and so on in Turkey has naturally affected university youth. Young people's activities towards these developments are being suspended, disciplinary sentences are being issued following the investigations launched by school administrations on students following press releases. This affects not only the students but also their families. In particular, the aggressive and antidemocratic attitude of school administrations is a serious problem for students, while the figure developed against Kurdish students is already a serious problem, while their lives are unbearable when they add pressure and antidemocratic attitudes to opposition students. The number of students held in prisons across Turkey is more than 600. In view of the reasons for these students' arrests, activities regarding the democratic and peaceful solution of the Kurdish problem have been investigated and arrested for reasons such as the demand for education in the main language, participation in the March 8th event, posting an opposition film, or selling tickets to a music group, HES and participation in nuclear activities. The length of long detention increases students' victims when defence demands are not met by the courts in the main language. University administrations also implement disciplinary action on students, suspending students, or cutting ties with the school before the trial is finalized. Denizli Pamukkale, Kütahya Dumlupınar, Isparta Süleyman Demirel, Konya Selçuk, İstanbul Marmara and İstanbul, Diyarbakır Dicle, Malatya Inönu, Edirne Trakya, Adana Çukurova, Hatay Mustafa Kemal, Mugla, Antalya Mediterranean, Erzurum Ataturk and many other universities are facing the oppressive attitudes of arrest and school administrations as a result of these policies. The latest example, 24 students were arrested and sent to prison at Dicle University. It shows very clearly how democratic the understanding of a government that views young people as potential criminals is, the level of freedom of thought and expression in Turkey. The most basic right for students to be deprived of the right to education is to investigate the situation of students who are deprived of their rights, to address their victims, and to avoid similar problems from now on. Therefore, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be established in Turkey to expose the role of the NEPE in these repressive practices and to establish the policies necessary for the construction of free, autonomous and democratic universities in order to prevent pressure and attacks. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 30/05/2013 (today) meeting, I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 7 May 2013, the rank of 3280 was held by the Bingöl MP İdris Baluken and his friends (3280 rows no. The trial of Brigadier General Musa Çitil has been proposed to submit the parliamentary inquiry motion to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before other motions pending the information of the General Assembly and to be read on Thursday (30/5/2013) at the same date, and to be held at the same time in the joint joint meeting of the talks. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the first word belongs to Mr. Pervin Buldan, MP. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0031par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, an important name is actually Musa Çitil. He is currently in office, unfortunately, but unfortunately, during his time as a lieutenant in Derek district of Mardin, in 1992 and 1994, he was taken to Çişil, where he was taken from Mardin, where he was responsible for a number of unsolved murders committed in the geography, rapes and abuses again, human rights violations, but in a way, he was taken to Çorum. In spite of the efforts of human rights activists, human rights founders, human rights founders, and human rights founders. In this regard, there is a motion for research as a party and as a group to conclude the case of Musa Çitil as soon as possible and for Musa Çitil to be given a necessary punishment and for his crimes to be carried out. One of the important reasons we're giving in this process is that we're also witnessing to one of the strongest times of hope, as negotiations continue, following the dialogue with Mr. Ocalan. Of course, we would also like to say that this has been an improvement that has also given us hope after a process that we've been paying for, both by the people and by the Kurdish political movement over the years. In this regard, if there is to be talk of a real process of peace and democratisation, we want to say that it is vital to remember the ongoing legal struggle of citizens and their families who pay the price. The legal struggle of our citizens, whose relatives have been killed by the state, has been going on for 20 years, dear friends. In particular, between 1992 and 1994, Musa Çetil, who was stationed in Derek district of Mardin, is a person who was held responsible for the deaths of 13 citizens. However, Çiçil, who has been promoted and continues his post, is being tried without arrest despite the trial and all the evidence filed against him years later. The case against Çiçil, who is responsible for the disappearance, torture and rapes in custody, has been taken from Mardin to Çorum. The hope of justice for the relatives of the people killed by Moses Çitil is more than ever today because they believe that peace will only come to this land by facing the truth and bringing the perpetrators to justice. We, therefore, would like to say that we have once again invited the government to take on real responsibility for solving unsolved murders, to act in accordance with the law of judicial bodies and administrative authorities, and to bring those responsible to justice. Dear friends, on 20/04/2013 in Derek district of Mardin, a signing campaign was launched in 1992 and 1994 with the dismissal of Musa Çitil, the commander of Derik Gendarmes, and was transferred to the Ministry of Justice via PTT. Many rapes, tortures, village burnings, abuses, executions without trial, and 13 counts of manslaughter, Moses Çetıl. But this Moses Çetil, unfortunately, is now continuing his mission. We want to say once again that this is not right, both by conscience and by law. One of the unsolved murders, which Moses Çitil was tried for, is the murder of Vecdi Avurl. Vecdi Avörl was taken into custody in 1994 and was never heard from again since. As part of the investigation carried out by Mardin Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on the unsolved murders, the body of Avarl was confirmed in Mardinin Derek district in 2011. On June 12, 1994, an operation was launched into our village by the gendarmes and rangers, the villagers were gathered in the village square, our house was searched thoroughly, but my father was taken into custody, even though there was no evidence. Later, we received no news from him, and he made a statement. The trial of Musa Çikil, who was charged with 13 counts of unsolved murder, including Vecdi Avul, has been charged 13 times with aggravated prison sentences, but has been taken from Mardin to Çorum, although there is no demand from the Ministry of Justice. We especially want to express that, of course, we have had the opportunity to face the process of solutions and dialogue. In this case, we think the decision of the judge will also contribute to the enlightenment of a dark period. It's morally and legally a scandal to have 13 people murdered and sentenced to 13 life sentences out there today. The defendant of a massacre is still on duty and has been promoted. Unfortunately, the law has masked this massacre. Tomorrow, their mothers from Istanbul will come from Ankara on Saturday, especially to share their views on the Musa Çitil case with the press and public opinion in front of the YKM at 12:30 p.m. We invite all of our sensitive MPs to be in front of the CDC to support their mothers tomorrow Saturday. And I'll still be in front of the CDC as a mother on a Saturday in the past, and as a relative of theirs, I'll still be with their mother tomorrow, in order to be with them against this unlawfulness, this injustice. Dear friends, given all the examples in the world, similar cases involving Musa Çitil and heavy human rights violations have been accepted by everyone as a test of intimacy, especially in the context of confrontation and reckoning in the process of peace and negotiation. In the 1990s, the people of Turkey will never be able to restore their confidence in the state, especially without the light of the village evacuations, harassment and rapes, criminal killings and severe tortures in Kurdish provinces, and without the trial of criminals. Therefore, in these days when the peace and resolution commission is established, it is certainly insufficient to resort to memory in order to shed light on intense violence and severe human rights violations. At the same time, we would like to highlight that there is no lasting peace and solution in the memory of the criminals before the trial is launched. The fact that Moses Çitil did not go to court even once despite serious charges against him and still continues to serve as Commander of the District of Ankara has raised deep doubts about the court's neutrality, the refusal of lawyers and relatives of the accused to submit his lawyer to the court and the fact that he had not even submitted his lawyer to the last trial seen in Çorum. Therefore, once again, we say that it is illegal for Musa Çitil to build an illegal protective armor, that he should do his duty in the matter of law, and that a process of research should be initiated in order for this matter to be illuminated immediately, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0032par0345	Thank you, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0033par0348	Mr. President, when we examine the speaker's speech and the inside of the group's proposal, it's a motion to establish a research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with the Civil Code. According to the third joke of Article 138 of our Constitution: "There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the legislature concerning a case that is being seen, nor can there be any discussion or any statement made. The MP can express his views on the matter at any location, say anything about what he has done or alleged to have done, object to his absence in court, criticize, but Turkey's Grand National Assembly is not authorized to discuss the group's proposal for this investigation. The Council of Presidents should discuss this issue and take it from the agenda to discuss the group proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0034par0350	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0035par0351	Wait a second... Now, here's what we're gonna do.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0036par0353	The constitution cannot be offered a group of proposals for an open, open investigation of a pending case.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0037par0354	He's already on the agenda of the General Assembly, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit01spe0035par0355	I'll take a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'll ask the members of the group to meet me behind the podium. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 113th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Members of parliament, the Peace and Democracy Party group's proposal is a reminder that a parliamentary inquiry motion should be removed from the group's proposal as part of the third joke of the Constitution's Article 138. If you look at the content of this parliamentary survey motion, which is still in the process of reviewing the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I will consider the motion against the Constitution's Article 138, and remove the Peace and Democracy Party's group proposal from the process.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0038par0006	Mr. President, we'd like to have a formal discussion about your attitude.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0035par0007	Okay.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0039par0008	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0040par0009	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0041par0010	Mr. President, in favor of...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0042par0011	Against...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0043par0012	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0044par0013	You, in favor... then...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0045par0014	Let them talk about it. Let the party talk about it, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0043par0015	It's got...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0044par0016	Okay. I handed them out one by one. I'll give you three minutes. Mr. Baluken, you have made a promise against my position. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0046par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, when we present this motion to Parliament Speaker, we have prepared a motion to investigate all unsolved murders in the region, particularly the unsolved murders caused by Musa Çitil. The following is the way we have been followed when we submitted a motion to investigate the Parliamentary Presidency: If there is a violation of the Constitution, or the Civil Code, Parliament shall extradite the current motion to the party group. That's not the way it's been run. If it has not been returned, the Council of Counsellors will meet before the General Assembly, and if such a breach exists, the motion will be withdrawn by discussion of the Council of Counsellors. Now, here's a motion we made on May 7th. The Speaker of Parliament has not returned it, nor has the Constitution declared it inappropriate. There's been a meeting at the counseling board today, and there's been no argument, no decision coming out of there. There was a debate on the General Assembly's agenda, a speaker who spoke on behalf of our group came here and expressed his views, and then you made a decision on constitutional compliance. That attitude isn't right. If there is a problem with conformity to the Constitution, as I mentioned, in these mechanisms, you would return the existing research proposal, and we would remove it from the part that is contrary to the Constitution, in accordance with its purpose, and bring it to the agenda of the General Assembly, which is what we want to discuss in the General Assembly. Therefore, that attitude has not been right. Of course, I don't find it very understandable here that the Constitution of Parliamentary Affairs and the coupist mentality of September 12th is so, so much, that the AK PARTY group is wrapped up with four hands. What matters is the constitution of consciences and consciences. Since yesterday, we've been bringing in motions to set up a research commission on mass graves, unsubs. So we're trying to run a bit of an agenda for lawmakers to be assessed on the conscience of party groups. We think that's what you should be paying attention to. Otherwise, a couptic Constitution prepared by Kenan Universe itself is against the EC PARTY group itself, but we understand that, more conscientiously, you have not done enough of your own accounting, you avoid facing these issues, so you seek refuge in the constitutional clause of the Kenan Universe. Mr. President, of course, you will vote on the decision you've made, but the BDP Group will continue to run the agenda and continue to follow. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If necessary, we'll revisit our motion and bring it to the General Assembly's agenda. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0047par0031	Thank you. The first word in favour of my attitude is Mr. Mustafa Elitas. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0048par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party was discussed today at 12.30 p.m. at the Council of Counsellors for the Parliamentary Presidency. As a matter of fact, in light of the information we received at the meeting we received in your presidency, our representative, who joined on behalf of our group, stated that this motion was unconstitutional, but the Presidential Court unfortunately raised this group's proposal regardless of our friend's warning. As a matter of fact, at the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are starting talks on the proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, according to Article 19 of the Civil Charter, because there is no unanimous vote among the parties. Here, after a review period of whether or not a motion was passed on May 7th was contrary to the Constitution, there is a period of time-direction in which the Civil Code does not enter the red agenda. But from here, when she gave Pervin Hanım's speech, when she first expressed it, the group suggested something about a case that was being seen... As a matter of fact, I pointed out to the Speaker of Parliament that he had been charged with the murder of 13 people at the beginning of the group proposals and that the process of trial was still going on, and I said, "I want to have a conversation about this. I did this because I thought it was against the courtesy of interrupting a congressman while she was speaking here.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0049par0040	That's very kind of you!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0048par0041	Otherwise, we could have given that warning at that moment. At the first moment, from the moment it was read, Mr. President, I could have called this a violation of the Constitution. But I did it so I wouldn't interrupt the speech of a speaker on the stand. Look, valuable lawmakers, a commission has been set up to change the Constitution of September 12th. This Commission is working hard, I hope it will end, we hope, we hope. We're hoping that by blocking our ears on the media reflections and so on and so on, they'll be able to end this constitutional amendment by the end of June 30th. Whether it's over or not... right now there's a Constitution in effect, there's a rule in effect. Under that rule, it is our obligation to obey the 138th Amendment of the Constitution. We did so by changing this objection differently, not by taking them out of here, but by bringing up the issue of an anti-constitutional arrangement here at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I express that the president's statement was correct, that his attitude was correct, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0050par0046	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0051par0047	Mr. President, I just want to make it clear to you that it's going to go into the transcripts. Mr. Elitaş has stated that Mr. Doğan Kabbat, representing the AKP Group, has warned me, warned me, but I have already given him our reason. I explained why we brought this motion to the General Assembly. However, we have no objection. Mr. Sadik Yakut directed the Council of Counsellors today, and he himself did not give me any warning. In view of that, we brought this motion to the General Assembly today and opened it up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0050par0049	Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0052par0050	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the civil code of procedure debate can be taken in two opposite terms, which, of course, does not cause people to group their opinions in favor or against. So I take my word over the procedural debate of this motion. I'm not talking about it in favor or against it. The Peace and Democracy Party is demanding a parliamentary investigation into the issue, pointing to the unlawfulness of the judicial process in the parliamentary investigation motion. He brought it to the advisory board as a group proposal, and then when it couldn't be agreed there, he offered it as a group recommendation to the General Assembly. First of all, as the Republican People's Party, we'd like to have the Parliament's research commission set up to investigate all the perpetrators. Our vision is clear, clear. Despite the fact that we've brought these proposals here over and over again, the ruling party's ruling party, the AKP, has voted that this proposal has not been accepted. We're still on the same page. Secondly, I'm going to say that in this motion, as a sign of illegality, for example, this case has been changed to the venue of the trial. This isn't the first time a trial has been changed. There's been a change of venue in another case, in other cases. The trial of Uğur Kaymaz, who was killed at the age of 12 in Kızıltepe district of Mardin, was also taken from there and transferred to Eskişehir.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0053par0054	But they were all acquitted.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0054par0055	That's the point. The goal is to exonerate, to lose, to miss.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0052par0056	Look, there are these kinds of problems. Yes, the third joke of Article 138 of the Constitution states that there will be no discussion, no statement, regarding the use of judicial authority in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey concerning a case that is being held. There is such a constitutional problem from this point of view, but I would like to ask you: A case involving Kenan Evren Evren and Tahsin Şahinkaya, who carried out the coup attempt on September 12th, has been launched by the Commission for Research on Impacts in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Elitaş, then why didn't you bring these objections here and say so?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0055par0058	The Commission for Research on Impacts has been established.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0052par0059	The Silence Commission has been established. As a case of silence continues, a commission was established here in the Parliament at the time, contrary to the Constitution. How is this happening? So let's not dismiss the Constitution when it comes to our work and remembers the Constitution's judgment and does not come to our aid. Since I'm out of time...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0055par0061	If it suits you, then accept it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0052par0062	Sir, no, I'm expressing the violation of the Constitution. It is necessary not to discuss this matter here -- in terms of policy -- but please be consistent, express your consistency in all things. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0056par0065	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0057par0066	Mr. President, we claim and show that we are consistent in everything. Look, we didn't set up a research commission on September 12th trial, about the trial of Kenan Universe and her friends, we proposed a research commission on the coups in Turkey, about what happened so far from the May 27th coup, and all political parties gave representatives there. They're different, you have to underline them.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0056par0068	Copy that.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0058par0069	Mr. President, the two of them are no different, Mr. Elitaş is misleading the General Assembly again. We, too, have the case of Musa Çitil, because the graves of 13 have just been discovered, and there are serious allegations that there are 13 people who have killed. This is actually a motion to investigate all unsolved murders, starting with the current case. So we didn't just set up a commission on September 12th. He says, "Let's not just call a commission on the Musa Çitil case, let's set up a commission on all unsolved murders in the 90s."
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0056par0070	Copy that. Yes, Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0059par0074	In favor of your attitude, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0056par0075	Yes, I couldn't call everyone but Mr. Baluken..... so...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0060par0076	Mr. President, I'd like my word on my behalf.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0056par0077	Wait a second, let's get this over with.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0061par0078	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I made a promise in favor of your attitude. I wish the attitude that you really put forward was always carried out by other Parliamentary MPs, in order to ensure the full implementation of the law, the Civil Code. It's a good attitude, a good attitude, and a good warning. Therefore, bringing up a subject of an ongoing case and putting pressure on the judiciary, which we want to be independent and impartial, above all, is not in line with the state of law, it is not in line with the rule of law. In that sense, I think it's true that this motion should not be brought up in such a manner, that it should not be discussed -- no matter how much it has begun. It was partly mentioned in the advisory board. In fact, of course, there's sort of a consensus between parties, where the Council of Counsellors is created to provide an understanding. I mean, if only our congressman, who was there on behalf of the Speaker of Congress, had a common understanding of this matter. That's the whole point. If we're coming together at the Council of Counsellors, instead of having a discussion about this procedure, we should have been able to talk about it there, to create this, and to create a common opinion on a will in that respect. In this regard, even though he was brought in on the advisory board because there was no unanimous vote, I think the Deputy Speaker of the Council of the Council had to take the necessary initiative to do so. Finally, there's a party proposal coming in. What we're talking about here today is actually the suggestion of a group, not the discussion of a self-investigative research proposal, but it's a consensual research motion, and it's against the law. Therefore, in this regard, it is true that this issue, which is against the law, should not be discussed here. On the other hand, I must say, we've submitted the motion to investigate the coups, but we're investigating the coups. So, with that research motion, there was a commission that we contributed. I think it goes against the purpose of our research motion as the National Movement Party. We've made a motion to investigate the process of impacts, not in the ongoing process of trial, but directly, objectively. Here, it's very clear that your will is not to be taken into consideration because there is a violation of the law and the Civil Code. If you vote, I'd like to point out that we'll vote in your favor. My respects.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0062par0085	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0063par0090	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Elitaş had just said that the law was against the Constitution. And the CHP group spokesman who said that the cases were legally transferred to other provinces... we know that from the past until now.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0062par0092	No, that's not what he said.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0063par0093	Now, we know how the Uður Kaymaz case was taken from Mardin to Eskişehir. Again, protesting the transfer of a case from Samsuna Mush, the closure of the Democratic Society Party... where two people were killed by a citizen, 10 were injured, and within five months the killers were acquitted and the victims were severely punished. The Commission for Research on Impacts was also established, they investigated all the coups, but since the March 2nd coup was committed against the Kurds... the March 2nd coup was a common coup by soldiers and civilians.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0062par0095	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0063par0096	But the Commission for Research on the Impacts didn't investigate it either.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0062par0097	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0064par0098	Mr. President, I think my line is...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0063par0099	No, no, it has nothing to do with you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0064par0100	Oh, yeah? Oh, sorry.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0065par0101	I already said that, which means you didn't say that, by the way.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0064par0102	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0066par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0065par0104	I'll explain my attitude, Mr. Godkulu, and then I'll listen to you, and I'll take a moment. Congressmans, there has been no change in my attitude. The Peace and Democracy Party Group proposal has been dismissed. Yes, Mr. Godkulu...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0067par0109	Mr. President, to avoid misunderstanding, I mean, I'm one of the lawyers following that case, I followed the Ugur Kaymaz case. Why, indeed, are the cases transferred from Mardin to Kızıltepe, from Musashi to Samsun, from Mardin to Çorum, by the decision of the Ministry of Justice? Let the Minister answer if he's here. So they don't trust the judges in Mardin, they don't trust the people of Mardin?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0065par0110	All right, it's on the record, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0067par0111	They don't trust security forces in Mardin? Did they appoint a new judge or, at work, the judges in Eskişehir, or what did they do? Let them explain these.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0065par0112	Thank you. It's on the books, now you're repeating it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0067par0113	So what democratic need would justify a case being taken from the province of Turkey to another province? Let them tell us that, and we'll be convinced.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0065par0114	Okay, I get it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0068par0115	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement on one thing. Mr. Orator said that the Minister of Justice would want and remove the case. He doesn't have that authority. The Minister of Justice can only demand this from the Supreme Court. The issue of the transfer of cases to another location is very clear in Article 19 of the Penal Code. However, the Supreme Court can make that decision. And I felt the need to fix it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0069par0117	Who wants it, who wants it, who wants it, my dear Idris?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0070par0118	All right, he's on the books, too. Mr. Godkulu, please...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0069par0120	Who demands it, who demands it? I'll discuss it with you anywhere. Who demands it, tell me that?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0070par0121	Okay. Now, look, everyone's explained everything, it's all in the transcripts. Yeah, that's all over.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0069par0122	Who demands it? Does the Ministry demand it? Why does the Ministry demand it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0070par0123	And the Reverends!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0071par0124	The Ministry demands it, the Supreme Court decides.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0069par0125	Okay, why would the Ministry demand it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0070par0126	Mr. Godkulu, so it's written, over. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (30/05/2013), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. [[İzmir]] On 7 February 2013, our parliamentary research proposal for 30/5/2013 on Thursday (now) was proposed in the General Assembly to conduct talks in today's Union, with 9456, with the purpose of investigating the Mesleki and Technical Education Problems. The first statement in favour of the nationalist Movement Party Group's proposal is from Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Izlu. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0072par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken our pledge from the National Movement Party Group to our group's proposal that we submit to the Turkish Parliament with the signature of 20 MPs to investigate the issues of vocational and technical education and that our motion to investigate the necessary measures should be taken into the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this occasion, on behalf of myself and my group, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, especially in this period when our young people's employment problem has reached its limit, there is a significant number of young people who have sought a job or are uncomfortable with their job, who have graduated from vocational and technical education institutions. So, in short, the subject of employment of our fellow teachers, known in public as the technical teachers, has been among the most important problems since 2002, especially since the AKP took office. According to the KPSS results, the group, which scored hundreds of thousands of thousands of years, even in the first thousandths, or even in the first 10ths, failed to take these tests due to the lack of sufficient quotas, so Turkey's 1st, 2st, third-time vocational teacher candidate has been returned from the gates of the state institutions. The first problem is the problem of employment. These people studied high school for four years, and they worked hard to serve this country, to produce it, to make it, to win it for themselves and the country. So the first problem is this job problem. The problem of employment for technical teachers, which have been neglected for ten years, especially during the 28th February period, has to be resolved immediately. It would be wise for you to remember these young people, who you've forgotten, who you've only used for their names from time to time, who you haven't seen, and who you've forgotten their votes, to be here knowing that the Minister would be here. I'd like to express my full support for the ministry's positive approach to this matter. Another important problem is that even though he is in the technical services class, technical teachers are unfortunately employed by the general class of administrative services in our current laws, so they are unable to use the advantage of being in the technical profession. In this regard, we propose that the law of the National Movement Party, which Mr. Ismet Bünataman and Mr. Mehmet Şandir, on January 31, 2013 and (2/1189), be immediately taken to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Otherwise, these people have entered public institutions and institutions under difficult circumstances as civil servants, but they will not get the rights to their rights. Since they haven't received it so far, this sacrifice will continue. Another important issue is that the construction chief and occupational safety experts assigned to this professional group, unfortunately, have been taken away by the AKP government again recently and by relevant units. These people who will be assigned to these empty staffs have failed to be appointed again. We feel that this must be reassessed and resolved. Another problem, in particular, was changed in 2009 to the university's education school, which continued to name the students who had found 100,000 and was named after them, and there was a legal arrangement for the right of engineering of the graduates of the technology faculty in 2009. It was a positive development, and we supported it, but it was just meant to save the day. In the 2009 and 2011 elections, it was a search for how to make this section happy. And then we said, "What are you going to do with hundreds of thousands of graduate technical school graduates who are not going to solve the problem of changing the names of these faculty? Now, since we're giving engineering to the graduates of technology faculty, the bride, at least in the last ten years, we've decided to give the graduates a direct engineering right, but unfortunately, as with most of the bill, you, the ruling party MPs, have blocked our proposals, and the government has already blocked it, and it needs to be resolved immediately. Although we've given our question proposal to the ministers about this many times, we've yet to find out what they think of the solution. This has to be resolved. Another issue was that after this recent arrangement in their graduate studies programme in 2009, graduates of technical education and graduates of higher education or Ph.D. major sciences were eliminated. For God's sake, young man of this country, just because he's a technical teacher, you can't get a master's degree or a doctor's degree. Can you leave him out the door? We need to figure this out. Hence, this is at the top of the very important issues that they are looking for an immediate solution. These quotas need to be increased and their rights to these graduates should be given in major sciences at the institute of relevant science. Another important issue is that technical teachers with a public degree of four years or graduates of vocational technical education, unfortunately, have rights to be equivalent to either a technician or a technician, again in accordance with legislation. They must be arranged specifically for additional indicators and compensations, in the way these people deserve -- college graduates, but technical teachers, but engineers, but with another title -- have to be given their rights. Another important issue is the engineering completion training known by Law 3795, which so far has not been benefited or benefited by these technical teachers. Dear lawmakers, even though this right has been granted legally, so far, for different reasons, we don't have enough staff, we don't have enough infrastructure. These young people have been turned from the gates, they've been restricted from their rights to complete engineering training. We certainly think that this should open the way for them, and that our institutions of interest by the Board of Higher Education should be warned and opened to them with an additional arrangement needed, if necessary. Otherwise, after this, the right given to our young people who have graduated from technology schools is almost 90 to 95% of the time, but because of the lack of technology school, our young people will continue to be victims again. Another important issue is that technical teachers, technical faculty graduates, unfortunately, can't even say what they do in the private sector, which is very bad, Mr. Secretary. I'm a technical teacher. These young people feel so overwhelmed that they can't say that they need to be arranged in public or private sectors. Therefore, we propose that this inquiry be adopted and processed by the High Assembly. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0073par0155	Thank you, Mr. Light. The first word against the National Movement Group's proposal is Mr. Burhan Kayaturk. Here you go, Mr. Kayaturk.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0074par0159	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the proposal from the National Movement Party regarding the problems of technical and professional education. I salute the High Council. While the effects of dizzying advances in information and communication technology are felt in every aspect of life, education is at the top of areas where change affects the most. Our priority is to give our population, which is much younger than the population of Western countries, the necessary knowledge, skill, and competence in vocational and technical education. The Professional and Technical Education Strategy Documentary Action Plan (2013-2017), the Ninth Development Plan, the decisions and government programmes have been prepared to reflect the importance and priority of professional and technical education data. Members of lawmakers, if you look at OECD 2010 data, the share of vocational and technical education is different from that of countries. The level of vocational and technical education is 5.6% in Canada; 22.6% in Japan; 23.7% in Korea; 51.5% in Germany; 67% in the Netherlands; 76.7% in Austria; 60 percent in Italy; 44.3% in France; the OECD average is 46.1% in Japan; and the average of 21 EU countries is 52.8%. In Turkey, the rate is 42.9%. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to bring your attention to vocational and technical education in secondary school, which was destroyed on February 28th. See, in the 2001-2002 education and teaching year, the share of vocational and technical secondary education was raised to 47.95 per cent in 2011-2012, when we took out open school students. The 2010-2014 National Ministry of Education is a 50 per cent rate that we are aiming for in the Strategic Plan, and we see that it has been approached in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in this context, I demand that you see the steps our government took when it was in power. The first thing that's done here is the appointment of teachers. Studies on teachers who will take part in vocational and technical education as the Ministry of National Education continue, with the current situation showing that the fullness rate of vocational and technical teachers is over 90 per cent. In 7/8/1997, the application of the engineering programme for technical teachers published in the Official Gazette has been provided for those who are technical teachers in high school for four years with a continuous technical education, to become engineers for two half-years. However, there are steps taken at the point of business expertise. When we look at these steps, technical education faculty graduates' job safety expertise is guaranteed by regulations. In 2010, coefficient application was reduced and ended in 2011. Thus, the injustice of points between vocational upper secondary schools and general high schools has been eliminated. In fact, we all need to know that even though this is perhaps the most important point of complaint for today's research motion, this has been eliminated by the AK PARTY. Another step: the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Finance to begin from 2012-2013 for students studying at vocational and technical education schools in organised industrial areas. Here, students have taken important steps to continue to study in these chapters and to contribute greatly to the organised industrial area and especially to mid-sized workplaces, and we see that students who have studied here have been strongly encouraged and have been given all kinds of contributions. In this regard, five high schools have been opened so far, and after that, we see that the AK PARTI government has also had enormous efforts to increase the number of high schools and to make them more qualified. Of course, as I've just said, perhaps it's clear here that our pre-AK PARTI governments have closed their vocational high schools to shut down their imam-gay high schools, thus making our human being unprofessional. Although the purpose here is to shut down imam-hatting high schools, we don't have a valued congressman on our screens who doesn't know that all vocational high schools are taking the biggest hit. There's one thing that we all agree is that in this period, both the medium-sized technology and the OSBs go back, with people who can't grow or grow, our economy is going back in a very serious sense. The AK PARTY government was also expected to come to power to eliminate this, and so today this injustice has been completely eliminated. Look, we see here that not only in this technical and professional education area, but during the ten-year period of the EC PARTI (AK PARTI) government, the central-scale business groups in Anatolia can also fight, compete, and contribute very seriously to the Turkish economy. Today, for many people, the reform that followed the struggle in South Africa is considered a major reform, which we agree with. However, in the last ten years of the reform of the Anatolian people, we see that the Anatolian Lions, Anatolian Tigers, especially with the EC PARTY government, stand up and fully show the reasons for their existence and compete very seriously. Today, 85 per cent of the economy in South Africa is held by a group of 8 or 10 per cent. Today, there is 40 per cent unemployment in South Africa, and 90 per cent of this unemployment is considered black. But Turkey has successfully delivered this reform. Thus, the EC PARTY took very serious steps at the point of vocational and technical training. That way, I say we don't need this research proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0075par0172	Thank you, Mr Kayaturk. In favour of the National Movement Group's proposal, Balıkesir MP, Mr. Namik Havutça. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0076par0176	Mr. President, I've been promised a nationalist Movement Party group proposal. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the educational system today, we see a structure that is unscientific, racist, reactionary and show-off character, which ignores the other, sexist, authoritarian, and one type of human creation. While education should be in the interest of scientific, contemporary, secular, general, public, and humanity, the policies of the AKP government, the main purpose of education, are unfortunately far from raising individuals who recognize their abilities, think critically, absorb democracy, respect differences, have aesthetic values, know the value of labor, know the value of science, offer the benefit of society and humanity. This is the most concrete demonstration of reality, which is clearly based on vocational education. Today, lawmakers also implement the AKP government, workers, officers, who exploit labor and enslave workers. Professionally trained youth is, unfortunately, a victim of this hostility of labor. The AKP government had cleared the way for young and cheap labour exploitation by Law 6111, one of the bag laws. The government has extended its obligation by the government to get internships, which have been undermining the number of businesses to be employed for vocational training, from businesses that employ 20 to more staff, to employ less than 20 people, and to cover an important part of the total enterprises in Turkey. The AKP's government claimed that this arrangement increased the opportunities for vocational high school students to intern, but its other arrangements, especially in terms of internship fees, envisioned that interns should receive a third of the net amount of the minimum wage, with changes being paid 2/3 of the gross minimum wage before the law. On the other hand, students in vocational upper secondary schools attend two days of school in their senior year and three days of business in the field. With a change of law, interns are allowed to work more and cheaper. Young people who are viewed as cheap labor force have been replaced by much cheaper labour exploitation than before by working very long hours in matters that do not have their own spaces. The AKP government must no longer allow the exploitation of the efforts of our young people, whose sole goal is to acquire a profession with education and to conduct their lives with a secure job. Dear lawmakers, look, today, with the 4+4+4 cut-off education system implemented by the AKP government, the number of children working has increased horribly. After eight years of uninterrupted training, the number of child laborers was reduced, but the number of child workers, 1,700,000 today, has been cut in half. With this system that was put into practice last year -- this new system that you invented -- especially the children of small-income, poor families -- after basic education -- they started working as interns in organised industrial areas under the guise of vocational upper secondary schools, where they were given. What is in this, you might say? ▪ The child gets a job and learns to practice it. But there's also the other side of the locket. Children employed as apprentices rather than interns at the counter, and the AKP government, which has made this a legal obligation, is watching our children die in factories without any supervision, in dangerous business arms. Look, Ahmet Star was 13 years old. On March 14th, he died in a press machine at the factory where he worked to get his tuition. Serkan Altunai couldn't go to school. When he was 16 years old, he fell to his death while working at the construction site. Muharrem Ceylan was 16, worked at the shipyard. He was electrocuted, he died. Hakan Oğuz died in the factory at the age of 18. Metin Turan worked at the shipyard, in his 19th place. Only 38 of our children lost their lives last year. You're responsible for all this. Members of parliament, according to TÜİK figures 893 000 children work in Turkey, most of the children working at work cannot go to school. 893 thousand of the 15 million 247,000 children in the 6-17-year-old group, which is 20.6% of the population. Now, according to the DİSK-AR report, the total number of children between 5 and 17 years of age who were not evaluated in employment has risen from 6 million to 540 in 2006 to 7 million 503,000 in 2012, so that the total number of children working in employment and working in the household has reached 8,37,000. Isn't that amazing? Yes, Turkey has turned into a child labor paradise. Today, the 4+4 system has reached these numbers, and thanks to you, Mr. Secretary, Turkey has become a country where children are openly exploited and left to die. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, we always address the proposals for a solution to the problems of vocational education as the Republican People's Party. What do we say? The main purpose of education systems is to develop the quality of manpower in that country and to provide citizenship training for its citizens. To do that, he sets up the activities of education according to this purpose, by identifying the human model, in light of his education philosophy and human power policy. For this reason, we call the establishment of two years of academic high school and two years of vocational upper secondary schools, and the main problem of the education system in Turkey will be solved as a result of such degrees of training in academic or vocational upper secondary schools, directed to about 1-third of our young people's universities and others to vocational universities. Today, thanks to this warped training, we have teachers who can't be assigned over 100,000. The planning of this, as the Prime Minister stated, is not to say that we don't have to make a teacher who finishes every education school. The problem with this country's Prime Minister and the Minister of National Education is to plan it and to make our young people business and food. Mr. Prime Minister, go to the unappointed teachers and get a job. He shouldn't have to say, "Get a job." Unfortunately, education is considered to be an education for those who have money in Turkey, an education for those who have no money, so the AKP also considers the educational area a full trade and runt. In fact, look, the ministry, which changed most during the AKP administrations, is the Ministry of National Education. Why? Because the AKP government is not clear on education policies, it cannot decide what to do. Teachers... were set off as democratic education. Today, in the history of Turkey, the most backward, most oppressive period of education is taking place. Our training unions are at a point where they can't even protect their demands, let alone their rights demands. The decision-making mechanism of education is neither received from right nor from left by any of our unions. In Turkey, the democratisation of education is never, ever... in terms of the rights of employees in this administration, in terms of social and autonomy rights, teachers are having a complete nightmare in terms of working conditions. Today, ask the national education, the streets, the teachers. Mr. Secretary, did you call the teachers' unions and sit with them? Where have you brought Turkey with this educational system? Today, our schools, which will be middle school, which will be elementary school, are in a state of complete chaos; our parents, our children are in a state of misery. Don't you see this? Don't you talk about it? Mr. Secretary, if it weren't for those children, I would have been a great, good director of national education. And I say, by listening to the voice of teachers and children, by seeing your missteps, let's do this before it's too late to take steps to ensure national unity, national integrity, brotherhood, tolerance, peace, and a real democratic education, let's set Turkey's national education policy in common interest, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0077par0193	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı is against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0078par0197	Mr. President, with respect to the General Assembly, I have made a commitment to the group proposal of the National Movement Party to investigate the problems of professional and technical education and to take the necessary precautions. Starting from the day we arrived in power, we generally considered education and vocational and technical education as the most fundamental element of our country's development and development. In this scope, we have conducted efforts to restructure professional and technical education in line with the needs of the sector, and this has been conducted in cooperation with all public institutions and institutions, NGOs, universities and private sectors. The Project on Strengthening the Professional Education and Teaching System was carried out from 2002 to 2007. The key criteria and steps for restructuring vocational education have been created to prepare a number of policy documents. One of the most important printouts of the project has contributed to the establishment of the Occupational Qualification Agency. And again, the Professional and Technical Education Modernisation Project, which covered 2002-2007, was implemented from 2008 to 2010, by preparing new training programmes for the workforce market, which are sensitive, flexible, and adequate to the needs of the vocational high schools that were passed on by the Ministry in 2006, and also by the Central Education Project, which was still under way of life. Aviation, agriculture, health, justice, vocational education rates have been provided, and the Web-based National Information System is established to guide all individuals 13 years of age and older. And so, in the last decade, very important steps have been taken, such as increasing the level of vocational education and improving the quality of vocational education. If we look at the vocational and technical school production budget, it was raised to 57 million Turkish liras in 2009, to 118 million euros in 2010, to 132 million in 2011, and to 282 million in 2012. Our institutions have been mobilized to reduce unemployment, which is Turkey's most important and primary agenda, and to meet the needs of qualified personnel, and it aims to allow one million young people to receive vocational education for five years, which is funded from the general budget in the TOBB and the ISKUR business union, which started in 2011. If you look at the first-year assessment of the law after the 4+4+4 law, the coefficient in front of vocational education schools has been completely removed, and the law of 4+4+4 and the share of vocational education has been increased to 57.74% in upper secondary schools, and 46.6 per cent of the students who finished high school in 2012 have graduated from vocational high school in 2004, 33.9% of the students who finished high school have graduated from vocational high school. Again, when we look at students' education in schools and businesses, vocational upper secondary school and Anadolu vocational upper secondary school are trained in business skills three days a week. Technical high school and Anadolu technical high school have a total of three hundred hours internships in businesses during the summer period of 11th and 12th graders. Hotelry and tourism upper secondary schools receive six months-long intensive skills training in businesses between April and October. Health vocational upper secondary school, 11th and 12th grade students study skills in businesses two days a week and train for a hundred and sixty hours of training. The average education share of students in all education is 35 per cent. Dear lawmakers, as it turns out, the work on the subject of the investigation motion has begun and continued with our power. As we come to power, I want to stress once again that these studies are in progress, because vocational and technical education is really important to our country. However, due to the fact that our agenda is clear today, I would like to say that we are against the proposal of the National Party for Action.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0079par0205	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Interior Charter, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Thursday (30/05/2013), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. İstanbul MP M. On 29/05/2013, Sezgin Tanrıkulu and 26 lawmakers suggested that the Council of Turkey's Parliament be re-examined and brought to justice by the people of Uludere massacre and held in the same historic assembly's motion to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (936 rank) on Thursday (30/05/2013). In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0220	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear MPs, in terms of refreshing your memory and facing another fact again today: Do you remember that on December 28, 2011, 34 of our citizens were murdered in the village of Roboski, Şırnak district of Uludere?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0081par0222	Go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0223	Do You Recall?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0081par0224	She's fine.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0225	Yeah. Dear friends, no, maybe, I mean, your conscience, your common sense, and then, again, we'll show your hands to all of Turkey because we're taking those pictures. We're going to show who really, really sides with who's for justice, who's for truth, who's for democracy, and who's for real peace.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0081par0228	Everyone's done their job, everyone's done theirs.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0229	So... we'll show you in a little bit, we'll show you in a little bit.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0082par0231	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0232	Nothing, so... we'll show you in a minute.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0082par0234	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0235	Dear friends, this happened on the 28th, we were there on the 29th, and on the 3rd of January 2012, we submitted a motion to the Human Rights Commission in Parliament -- for example here -- at the point of the establishment of a subcommittee. On the same day -- for example here -- we submitted a motion to the Speaker of Parliament at the point of establishing a parliamentary research commission. What happened? A research commission was not established in parliament, but a subcommittee was established under the Human Rights Commission at our suggestion. For 15 months, this subcommittee, despite the efforts of all opposition parties, was unable, under the Prime Minister's orders, to go after the massacre of Uludere, Roboski, for 15 months. He was going to explain his report, he was going to explain it in March, he was going to explain it in May, he was going to explain it in December, he couldn't explain it, he couldn't explain it in any way. In March, there was a secret meeting that had never happened under the roof of this Parliament, before the report was distributed to members, the subcommittee report was read in the Commission, and after that the members had to say their own criticism, and unfortunately, with the hands of the members of the Justice and Development Party, this report was accepted, which did not illuminate the incident, and did not bring out their problems. Is there really a report now? Do you think there's a report? I ask you, is there a report?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0083par0238	He'll explain in a minute, my friend.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0239	But we, look, but we have a lifetime report to look you in the eye, to look you in the eye, to look you in the eye, we have opposition. Our 34 citizens here will be watching you for the rest of your life. Ten of our friends raised their hands there, and now the entire General Assembly will raise their hands again and you will raise yours. We'll see, really, who will show a true will at the point of researching Turkey's dark case in conscience, moral, justice, and democracy? Dear friends, we'll take a look at these. What happened? Let's remember, really remember. You saw it as a traffic accident, you saw it as a work accident. A spokesman for the Justice and Development Party had a business accident in its first statement. The Prime Minister would apologize if someone else's chicken died, but it is not an excuse for the deaths of 34 of our citizens. The government spokeswoman said there is no excuse in the middle of this serious massacre. The former Interior Minister said the following words: "They are finicky." He said for young people, "The extra used this word, we cannot apologize." He said, "We cannot apologize." All of your speakers used those words, remember? And the subcommittee of parliamentary research counted them as a directive, despite all our demands, he didn't take any action against our friends' wishes, he didn't ask, he satisfied with what was coming, and he received a report based on the report of the Chief of Staff, which would lead to the decision of the Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Office for lack of authority in the future. He didn't go after anyone. Well, we can investigate them all at this time. We're not going to do anything about what happened during this period, we're not going to move our hands, and you're going to be on the side of peace, we're going to be against peace. Dear friends, with the Republican People's Party's institutional identity, with 1 million members and 11 million voters who voted for him on June 12th, favour peace in Turkey, brotherhood in Turkey, understanding in Turkey. The Republican People's Party is against conflict and against death, but we also don't have to trust the Prime Minister. We know what the Prime Minister said to the Kurds seven months ago, eight months ago, didn't he say "Zerdust"? Didn't he say "Zerdust" by insulting all Kurds? Didn't the Prime Minister say? Didn't he, Prime Minister?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0084par0244	He didn't say that, you're twisting it. He didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0245	He didn't insult them all? Wasn't it the Prime Minister who wanted to be executed here, hanging around with a rope? Mr. Prime Minister, wasn't it the one who wanted to remove the immunity? Now that the Prime Minister is in favor of peace, we are in the face of peace.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0085par0247	And you're supposed to be on the side of peace.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0248	Friends, look, dear friends, we have a declaration of democracy and freedom here. Last Tuesday, this week on Tuesday, we brought in three percent of the dam. Today, we bring you the account of Uludere, which is 14th place here. We'll bring them all in, we'll register your votes and your hands, your hands. You guys didn't punish on one hand, but you didn't expose the perpetrators on the other, but you know what you did on the other hand, what you did?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0086par0250	Let the Vice President tell you about peace.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0087par0251	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0252	Tell that to my ass, my ass!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0087par0254	Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0080par0255	As soon as you got into long pants, I went into short pants. Tell that to my ass!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0087par0257	Congressmans, please, your Group Vice President will answer, my dear, don't quarrel.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0088par0258	Vice President, he's like you, the Vice President, ask him, tell him! Let Mrs. Gülseren Onanç tell you her own story, learn from her. He'll tell you about peace. Why did you ask him to resign?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0089par0259	Shut up, listen!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0090par0260	Look, in Isparta, 80 students were condemned for condemning Uludere. Look, let the record show that Muhammad Kızılay, who was taken into custody not for twenty years -- not for thirty-seven years -- who was detained in the province of the Partners of Aydın, two days after the massacre -- gave Ahmet Batur to you not for thirty-seven years, but for thirty-seven years, not for thirty-seven years; thirty-seven years, thirty-seven years, not for Ramadan Atabey, not for thirty-seven years; thirty-seven years, not for Osman Tekin. Why did he give it to you? It's because they opposed the nation Roboski. The killers will go around, the Prime Minister won't take political responsibility, but the students, but the protesters will be punished by your judgment for 20 years, 30 years, 37 years. Where's justice? Is that what we're gonna find peace with? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Come, together, let us secure true peace with freedom, democracy, justice, here we are. But we don't cheat and we don't talk behind closed doors. Let's talk here, let's talk transparently, not cheating and design, let's do it, let's talk clearly. Come, we offer you opportunity, you have shut down the nation, come, let us open again here.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0091par0263	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0090par0264	This is an opportunity for you. You fell at the bottom of the well, and now we're throwing rope at you. Let's take it out together and rebuild democracy and peace in the hearts of our citizens. We're giving you this opportunity. We're giving you this opportunity as the main opposition party on Uludere, on Roboski and on other massacres.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0092par0266	What do we do if you withdraw the signature tomorrow?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0090par0267	Come on, let's set up the commission here today, together, to expose these perpetrators, the ones responsible you didn't resurface. Otherwise, you're in an international criminal court.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0092par0269	What if you withdraw the signature?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0090par0270	I'm telling you, there's gonna be a prosecutor like Carlson, and he's gonna get a warrant, and there's no way out. If you don't reveal the facts here, if you're obstructing the judiciary, a prosecutor will appear and the people responsible will be tried in the international criminal court because the Prime Minister has the responsibility and the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0093par0273	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0094par0274	You withdrew your signature.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0090par0275	We don't give in to deception and design.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0095par0276	You signed your name, you ran away...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0096par0277	Thank you very much, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0090par0278	We don't give in to deception and design.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0096par0279	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0097par0280	You signed your name...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0098par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0096par0282	Wait a second, I'll give you my word...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0097par0283	You're lost. You haven't been around. Where did you come from?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0096par0284	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0099par0286	Don't make fun of me, right?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0096par0287	I promised you no bullying, no teasing your group. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0100par0289	You didn't ask why, sir. Why did you promise?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0101par0292	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. For one thing, I resent that the speaker here, the Prime Minister, has repeatedly said something that is completely inappropriate to misunderstand, which I am amazed to hear. Both the Prime Minister and the representatives of the EC PARTY speak openly and clearly on this bench: The expression "Zerdust" to Kurds has never been used by a member of the EC PARTY or by Mr. Prime Minister. The statement about the Kurds being Zarathust, about the Kurdish religion being Zarathust by the leaders and leaders of the PKK terror organization in the past, and the religion of Islam...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0102par0294	Zarathism is a belief, you can't insult it. It's a religious belief.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0101par0295	Listen, wait a minute!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0102par0296	You may not respect some of the Kurds' beliefs, but you can't create hate speech.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0101par0297	...trying to express that the Kurds are not parallel to their beliefs...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0102par0298	You can't create hate speech!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0101par0299	...Muslim Kurdish brothers trying to turn in a different direction...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0102par0300	Zarathism is a belief, you can't create a hate speech!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0101par0301	... in an effort to eliminate the idea that the PKK's terrorist organization's leaders have put against those Kurdish citizens in a different way.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0102par0302	It's faith, faith. Admit it's a belief.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0101par0303	Look, representatives of the terrorist organization have strongly objected to this in the process of expressing that the fundamental religion of Kurds is Zarathust, in order to highlight atheistism, and expressed that the Kurds had a significant contribution to the development of Islam. You don't know where you're going when you're talking. You're an ex-bar president.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0102par0305	I know, I know, you don't.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0101par0306	It's your judgment. It's the clearest evidence and proof of who was in charge of the judiciary in the past. You're a congressman who can't stand by your signature, who can't stand by our motion together, and who can't stand behind the signature of 24 of your friends. And when we agree to this motion, it's not clear if you can stand behind your signature. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0103par0309	It's unclear, it's unclear, it can pull back.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0104par0310	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0105par0311	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0104par0312	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0106par0313	You're gonna tell me it's on the back of your signature?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0105par0315	As one of our elders said, I have not yielded to deceit, nor will I bow to your deceits, and I will not yield to your desires, so know this.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0107par0316	Was that your suggestion? Was that your suggestion?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0105par0317	Yeah, well, I was against it, and look, I was against it at the time, and now I'm under your guardianship, and I'm against it. Do you object? I've defended your rights to the fullest, and now you're defending them?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0107par0318	We defend everyone's rights, we defend the rights of 76 million.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0105par0319	That's not democratism, that's not democratism. It was wrong then and wrong now; we opposed that mistake then and now you oppose it. The judgment has entered into your sovereignty, and now you do not object.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0108par0320	What do you mean, he entered your jurisdiction?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0107par0321	Where did the judgment come under our command, and who tried to shut down the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0105par0322	Let me ask you this: Zarathism is a faith, Zarathism is a faith.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0107par0323	WHO tried to shut down the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0105par0324	You can't insult a belief, you can't insult it if even one person believes it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0107par0325	WHO carries the documents to close the EC PARTY?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0109par0326	Dear Elitaş, please!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0105par0327	He can't insult it, even if it's the Prime Minister, no one can insult it. You can't create polarization through beliefs, and you can't create hate speech, and I condemn the creator, especially the Prime Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0110par0329	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0111par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0112par0331	Now, wait a second. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0113par0333	On the subject of Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu of the Republican People's Party Group in his speech, Mr. Elitaş made a statement regarding the withdrawal of the motion of his signature...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0112par0334	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0114par0335	I'll give you the proposal in four hours. You said you'd give it to me, but you haven't given it to me yet.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0115par0336	The Pirates of the Caribbean jumped on our motion, and we protected our motion from pirates.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0112par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0116par0339	Yeah, in politics, if you say anything, it's on the record. On the Day when these records will be brought forward. Now, Zarathism is also a belief. Every faith is respected, every man for himself. But Mr. Prime Minister always makes mistakes, always stumbles over them because he's a political object of faith. Now, Mr. Elitaş made a statement about the members of the terrorist organization, saying that these are Zarathust. Now, I'm reading to you the speech that Mr. Prime Minister made in Diyarbakir. June 1, 2011...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0117par0343	Elitaş doesn't lie! The Elitaş I know doesn't lie.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0116par0344	He says, speaking to the BDP, he doesn't address terrorists, members of the terrorist organization: you've already explained. What do you say? The religion of Kurds is Zarathism...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0118par0345	It's a newspaper story!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0116par0346	That's what they say. According to these, Apo is a prophet. Yes, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's, here...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0119par0347	That's what they call it. What's wrong with that? Right...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0116par0348	That's right, that's right. So now the Prime Minister will tell the Kurds that these are Zarathust, and his spokesman will come up here. No, that's not what the Prime Minister said.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0120par0349	Where do you read these?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0116par0350	Yeah, if Aleppo's in there, it's here. This is what I recommend to Mr. Prime Minister and the AKP Group. Actually, I would advise Mr. Prime Minister that it would be wrong for me to recommend it to the group, Mr. Prime Minister. He's always dealing with religious issues. Let the Prime Minister leave it to the facts.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0121par0352	No, it's not like that!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0116par0353	About the last of the citizens who died in Syria, Reyhan, he said: "The terrorists who did this will burn in hell." ▪ Transfers him to the afterlife, says he is desperate. He also said that those of our eight people who died in Gaziantep last year would pay in the afterlife. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Prime Minister, come into this world and remember your duty, do your duty.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0122par0357	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0123par0358	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0122par0359	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0124par0360	Mr. President, I'll take my word for it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0122par0361	In line... so the group's vice presidents first, we've got them in line, so...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0362	Mr. President, Mr. Hamzacebi has given us some misleading information about our Prime Minister's speech in June...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0126par0363	He said, "I accept."
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0122par0364	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0366	Mr. Hamzacebi read the speech made by Mr. Prime Minister from the Internet on June 1st. That's how it goes in the lead sentence. Look, he's speaking to the BDP people, saying that your advice to the Kurds is already what the BDP people are saying.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0127par0367	Which BDP is singing?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0368	He says: "Your advice to Kurds is not Islam, but our religion is Zarathism." He even says: "The people of the PKK have reached a point where they have reached a point where the people of the Kandil have come to a point where they have fallen into the need to declare Apophis. "
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0128par0369	So you're negotiating to make them a prophet?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0370	That's what the Prime Minister said. Otherwise, Mr. Prime Minister, it's not about our Kurdish citizens being Zarathustras, it's about the BDP that I just told you...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0128par0371	That's right, the religion of the Kurds is Zarathism.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0372	Mr. Hamzacebi, I believe you're a friend who understands what he's reading.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0128par0373	No, no, no, no, no, the sentences are here.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0374	I mean, I'm sorry if you've come to a point where you don't understand what you're reading right now after you've become Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0129par0375	You understood, too, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0376	Frankly, what the Prime Minister said was that the BDP had publicly shared a description of the Kurdish religion and criticised the declaration of Apophis. Our Kurdish citizens have a very high level of Islamic sensitivity. Nobody talks about it, and we can't possibly discuss it. Look, dear friends, word is important in politics. And the signature is the highest degree of gold. In his motion for the establishment of the research commission with 24 MPs, Mr. Godkulu suddenly withdrew his signature in the motion for the establishment of the research commission that we consider appropriate.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0130par0378	So, when the Prime Minister went to America, he said, "There is no Geneva." He said, "When he comes, he becomes Geneva." Now, how does that work?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0125par0379	Now, you still have no right to stand up here and condemn Mr. Prime Minister and draw Mr. EC PARTY Group in a different direction, and there's no line. First, you stand behind your signature because a promise is a bond. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0131par0382	Mustafa, you don't make your own motion, so you come to our motion and sign it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0132par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0133par0384	Mr. Godkulu, no; Mr. Baluken is next.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0132par0385	Mr. President, I'll have one, too.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0133par0386	I'm not saying anything, honey. So we're taking turns. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0134par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, while Mr. Elitaş was speaking here, he implied that the Prime Minister's BDP people had said and said so. I think a large majority of members of the AK PARTY Group know that the Prime Minister has taken a step back from what he did wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0135par0391	He apologized. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0134par0392	Mr. Elitaş is still in the language and policy of the concept of liquidation. Neither you nor the Prime Minister have the right to insult Zarathism. A prime minister's position is to stay at equal distance from all the belief groups in a geography, to stay at neutral distance. Yes, the Kurds had a belief in the religion of Zarathism in the early 2000s, but if you engage in the Muslim debate, while you worshipped the fire, the Kurds had already become Muslims.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0136par0394	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0134par0395	So if you turn this into racism, you can't get out of there. On the other hand, we don't think it's right for the CHP to bring back such an argument. We have no doubt about Islam, about Kurds. If you're concerned about Islam, look on the other side of the country. The Kurds have members of different beliefs related to their religion, about Islam, about Zarathustra, about Ezidi, about non-Muslims, and all of these individuals share common law and common culture. If you're not racist about Kurds' Islamism, we've brought it to the leg of Congress many times, why don't you give it to the Kurds? Why don't you show the Kurds Seyit Reza's tomb? Why don't you show me the tomb of Saidi Kurdi? Don't let anyone do Muslim literature to us while Roboski's blood is in your hands. This assembly had all agreed to Roboski's thesis, except for the BDP Group, which led to Roboski. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you say you're going to do this cruelty and do Muslim literature, you'll find us there. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0137par0401	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0404	Mr. President, I mean, I apologize for taking up the General Assembly's time again. I know what Mr. Elitas thought of me on April 8, 2008, or on April 9th, when I was not a parliamentary speaker. Mr. Sırı Sakık and Mr. Attila Kart had made a promise here on a mistake and a lie of his own, and he's kept the same line ever since. I was the president of the bar at the time, so I spoke to the Prime Minister. Mr. Elitaş has spoken here in a false and false way, a conversation that has never happened between us and the Prime Minister, and he continues to speak lies and wrongly. His secret is Sakık, and Attila Kart is a witness to this.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0139par0405	Congressman, why did you sign it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0406	I had nothing to do with it, but they told me here because they witnessed that lie and that mistake. He lied and said the wrong things about me here.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0140par0407	Wait, what lie, what mistake?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0408	I was the head of the bar at the time -- he looks at the reports -- and I know very well, and he knows what he's saying wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0141par0409	Mr. Elitaş lied. You accuse him. What lie?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0410	So, now, I'm going to say that cheating and design don't do business here. I have a date for that motion, a date for your motion. Why didn't you negotiate with us? Why didn't you? You are here to discuss Turkey's most important issue with fraud and design. We're the main opposition party, where are you going to look for consensus? I'm asking you, I'm asking you on my conscience.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0142par0411	Why'd you sign it, sign it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0412	You're not going to call, you're going to try to mislead the public here with understanding, deception and design. There's no business like this, guys.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0143par0413	Where's the trick and the design? I'm the one who suggested it!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0414	We're on the side of peace. You can't question our peacekeeping, you can't test it. You guys can't, okay? Two, I say again: Every man's faith, including the Prime Minister, has to be respected, every people's faith has to be respected; he has to be a facilitator to fulfill the needs of the faith. He always has to do this. Okay? It has to be this way. Okay?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0144par0416	Come sign, sign!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0145par0417	Come sign!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0418	But the Prime Minister can keep you in line. We have a clear forehead. Then I told Mr. Prime Minister I'm not your officer. I'm telling you now, but you'll be officers!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0146par0419	Why'd you sign it, sign it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0138par0420	And I won't take any more promises. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0423	Mr. President, the speaker is on the stand for a speech that I made in 2008...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0148par0424	Yeah, he said you were lying, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0149par0425	What's the big deal with the signature? Because your game is broken, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0427	Mr. President, regarding a speech I made on the floor in 2008, Mr. Kart of the Republican People's Party and Mr. Sakik of the BDP have denied me...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0150par0428	I read about it in the paper, and I was very sorry for you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0429	...that he accused me of being wrong, that I made a false statement and that he proved it. But what it is, it must also state the date of the 2008 report, which is the date of the report. It's not that simple to accuse someone of lying here. Look, you're accusing me of lying...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0151par0430	I said lie and wrong.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0431	...about a speech I made in 2008. It's not your skill to go in here and tell me what it is. You're gonna tell us the truth, the date of the report, whatever it is.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0151par0432	I'll tell you in a minute.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0433	Where I've lied, I've told you wrong, you're going to state them. You can say wrong, but it's wrong to say lying. As a lawyer, it is not appropriate for you, as a bar president, to say something that someone said -- I'm not arguing whether it's wrong or not -- that you're lying. You still accuse us of deception and design for being overwhelmed by what you call a research proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0151par0434	If you didn't understand him, how can I tell you?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0435	As your fellow deputies who have come to the entire bench, are there no logical aspects to our proposal for this law? Why do you not accept this? You insist on criticizing us.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0152par0436	Why did you sign that motion?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0437	We have approved the motion for the research commission you gave us. Our congressman friends brought in a motion for a research commission. Whatever happened to you, at the last moment, in the back, and with a great sadness -- I'm guessing the last signature was yours -- about the withdrawal of the motion, the sense of frustration, the signature you made.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0152par0438	Why did you sign it, why did you sign it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0147par0439	I know what it's like, but don't let God put anyone in that position, let no one be forced to give up on their signature. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0153par0442	Sir, I'll take it again.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0154par0443	It's back in the debate.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0155par0444	Yeah, it turned out that way. We're closing soon. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0156par0446	You gonna tell me your signature, how you're convinced?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0157par0447	Pay up, pay up!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0449	I will give my account to all citizens in this world, and to all citizens in the next world, and to all citizens in the world you believe in, and I will give it to everyone, but you will not give it to your conscience.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0159par0450	First, you lie. Take off the part you said.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0451	There's nothing I can't answer for. There's nothing I can't account for. I know exactly what I signed up for, and I know exactly why.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0159par0452	First tell me the part about the lie, the part about the lie.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0453	I'm telling you, it's not gonna happen with you guys cheating and designing. What we said, open up my motion. Let's make it equal. Did you negotiate with us? Did you? Did you? The commission that's being set up now? 10 AKPs, 1 BDP; that's not a commission!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0159par0454	Congressman, you think this is a law firm. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has its own rules.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0455	You will leave Turkey's most fundamental issue, the issue that has been going on since the republic, to the majority of the Justice and Development Party here on a commission!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0159par0456	Mr. Godkulu, get to the part where I'm lying.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0457	I'll show you the phone in a minute. You talked about me. I've never sued anyone in my life, nobody.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0159par0458	Tell me what you're accusing me of, of lying! Where did I lie?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0459	So I didn't sue you, and I phoned you, remember? I phoned you, I phoned you. I've never sued anyone in my life, filed a lawsuit, and I didn't sue you. I phoned you, I spoke to you on the phone, remember?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0159par0460	Tell me where I lied.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0461	Yeah, remember. Maybe I'll let you know what's on the report, okay? That's the way it is.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0160par0462	Let's find out what was discussed.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0463	But no one here, look, here, especially this majority, should question me and our group like they don't want to stand up for peace or stand up for it. Well, you have a ten-year majority, why didn't you think of that? Can you tell me why you didn't think of that?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0161par0465	What happened to Gülseren Onanç, Gülseren Onanç? Why did he resign?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0466	That's where our proposal is today.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0162par0467	Where's your motion? It's in the air, it's in the air!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0468	Let's make it equal. Let's set up a memorandum, let's make it equal, let's do it together. But you did your bidding, and you brought it here with deception and design. Why are you signing my motion? Why are you signing? Then come and join the CHP.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0163par0469	What happened to Gülseren Onanç?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0470	Come join us, sign for our friends. Let them come and join the CHP. There's no such thing. So, friends...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0164par0472	Stand behind the signature, behind the signature.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0473	Look, we're talking about Roboski, we're talking about Uludere.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0165par0474	Stand behind the signature, the signature...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0158par0475	We'll keep talking more, we'll bring them every month, we'll bring them back, we'll bring the unsolved murders...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit02spe0166par0477	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0166par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 113th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Republican People's Party Group's proposal is now in Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0167par0007	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. We lost 34 lives in Roboski village of Uludere County. Unfortunately, the perpetrators weren't discovered. However, just now, the turning of this massacre into a lost boatman from the real axis of the discussion on this mass countryside, and I believe it has broken the heart of all the mothers in Uludere, Roboski, Becuhi village, who are watching us now. The House is not an acceptable form of conduct when discussing one of the greatest massacres of our time, when it should be dropped from the subject and taken to another point. We brought this to Congress on the first day, for a research motion, January 5, 2012. We said in the beginning that this is not a subject of a subcommittee's investigation of the commissions in Congress. We said, this is too important to be left to a subcommittee for the Human Rights Commission. Unfortunately, the biggest mistake was made here, the Parliament's Human Rights Subcommittee took over this incident, and it was officially concluded by a majority of members of the EC PARTY, which was officially covered by a majority of votes, which was called "no exceptions," replaced by a judge. I'd like to thank everyone who's contributed to this process, who's working hard, who's writing about opposition. They did what humanity, law and democracy required. Our member, Mr. Furkcü, wrote the report on this, the opposition sheriff. Mr. Levent Gök of the Republican People's Party has both written and books. Here, the fact that the MHP is speaking in favor of this issue actually makes sense, but friends, a truth can never and never be blacked out. On October 17, 2007, the hands of the war expert cannot be ignored by the partnership of the AK PARTI, CHP, and mp of the war, which has been extended every year. The Peace and Democracy Party was the only one to vote against these arguments. For him, there are some issues of human life, especially when his country's citizens are bombed and blown to pieces by their own fighter planes, and if he delivers those bodies to those mothers piece by piece, then every party that signs this signature needs to show responsibility, he needs to do a conscience accounting, he needs to do human accounting. No one can draw closer to this event by tears of crocodile tears in the face of its magnitude, by making it the object of politics, by fighting politics, by fighting for the truth, and by doing nothing but justice and justice alone, and by acting in a reckoning other than revealing justice. I make it very clear, my dear friends, that the Peace and Democracy Party opposes power on the one hand and opposes the main opposition and, of course, I don't generalize it. Now, I'd like to say a few words to the ruling party: this discussion that we just had here, this disgrace, this solution, wasn't the language of peace. The process of resolution and peace requires sensitivity, whether it requires proper language, or appropriate conduct, requires taking the appropriate step. We'll get the language of peace and solution from this microphone first, folks. On this mic, on this bench -- we've all been chosen, like the white milk of the nation -- we've all been chosen, we've come -- everyone must weigh their duty when they speak the language of peace and resolution. Look what the House of Maide says: "O ye who have faith! Be upright in Allah's cause, and bear witness with justice. And let not your hatred of a people lead you to injustice. Be just; that is nearer to piety. Have fear of God. Surely God is aware of what you do. He says, "And if a wolf eats a lamb by the side of the Dicle, God will ask Omar for his account." Of course, if the Prime Minister of a government whose name is justice is used as an expression, it is the duty of the Party of Peace and Democracy to remind the Prime Minister that we cannot remain silent when innocent people are killed in Damascus, Baghdad, Kabul, and children in Kabul. We care about every step taken. Our prime minister, including his wife, daughter, and our female minister, is also considered a good cause to go and meet painful families, but it's not enough. Who gave you false information? Who directed the Herons and the Predatorites? Who led the entire Joint Chiefs? Who from the air force in Malatya gave the air force in Diyarbakir? Who picked up the planes? Who bombed for an hour in case one person didn't survive? We will, of course, answer this question in front of the people and history, all of us, with our good deeds, our sins, our wrongs, our rights, we are all in the conscience. Look, Mr. Prime Minister said one more thing, we won't forget it in Ankara's walls, it won't go away. Now, as we speak the language of peace and resolution, step by step from sane people to solution commissions, in a process of peace and resolution that affects 80 per cent of our citizens in Turkey, I curse the spirit of a new constitution, the brotherhood, citizenship, equality, freedom of faith, freedom of religion, everything, while I still defend the mindset that still argues about the Zarathust! Damn that mentality! [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Is this how you're gonna make 76 million brothers? Is this the way you're going to be equal, this way you're going to be free, and this way you're going to make a constitution for these citizens? We have to get through this, guys. We'll think big and talk big and we'll think big and we'll talk big and we'll talk a thousand times, thinking about the future of our lives together in Turkey and our future strategy, and Middle East and Syria, and Iraq, and the future of Turkey and the entire region. Dear God, I wish you hadn't taken your signature off that motion. We're not the only people on that commission, we're working on a resolution commission against five MPs, 10 experts, 10 AKP MPs, and believe me, history, either in the legal decisions, or in the historical documents, will write down the names of the killers in the town of Roboski, where there are 34 graves. He has a solution; together we will clarify, we will face our history, our reality. This is waiting for us, we can't run away from this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Reject it all you want, and it's the Peace and Democracy Party's debt. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0168par0024	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Deputy Kayseri, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu; go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0169par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I salute you all. Before I got into the Uludere, I was curious about one thing, Mr. Baluken said we were Muslims when you were just worshipping the fire.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0170par0029	The unhistoric...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0169par0030	But I suppose Mr. Mustafa told him. Turks or another nation? Because the Turks never worshipped fire.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0170par0031	Shamanism...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0169par0032	Because there was a heavenly God religion. The religion they call "Shamanism" is only the name of the clergy and is called the religion of the heavenly God. Therefore, the Turks have never had anything to do with the fire, and I want to express it specifically.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0171par0033	Let's fix it. Let's call it shamanism.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0169par0034	Now, in the matter of the Uludere, I assume there's some confusion in the concept. There's no point in yelling here, but there are some issues that need to be handled very seriously. As a result, it's not a question of whether they're Kurds, it's the person who died there, we need to talk about people. Now, 34 people died there. We, the Human Rights Commission, have studied them one by one. From the very beginning, we reviewed the images of the Herons. We've seen people take loads and come to our limit in a seven-hour period. People came to the border area -- our other friends, our congressman friends, maybe they didn't know exactly what this was all about -- and they were put in three different places. One is in a place close to the border; the other is about a hundred yards behind it; the other one is about 800 meters behind it, and they're sitting here with their stuff, and they've waited for a long time, for about forty minutes, forty-five minutes. A few people went up to higher ground -- and because it was profitable, the silhouettes of humans and animals were already visible as black -- were drawn there. After a while, a vision... and a bomb was dropped, a big bomb was dropped, where the first group was, and people were knocked down here. Two of the three people on the other side were probably dead, probably on the ground; one of them fled towards the Turkish border, and the mules were also visible to the flames. After 11 minutes, the second group, three of whom probably left to inform the others. Eleven minutes later, a second bomb was dropped on the second group, and this bomb went off, and people were on the ground again. Then, after ten minutes, three people were dropped again, a small bomb was dropped, and they were probably dead, on the ground. Twenty minutes later, a bomb was dropped on the last group again, a big bomb, a landslide where they were located, and three others fled backwards. Now, dear lawmakers, in a case like this, I think this might be considered: First of all, if these people are smugglers -- which they say they are -- we have no law against killing smugglers. People don't have to be killed if they're smuggling. No, if they were terrorists, then it would be: if they were terrorists after the first bomb was dropped, then the other groups would have to escape or fall apart. They didn't fall apart, but they huddled together. So we were able to watch it in Heron, and we watched it with Heron. Then there's been a mistake here. If a bomb was dropped on them as terrorists, then two, three, and four bombs shouldn't have been dropped. Because after the first bomb, people didn't fall apart, they didn't run, they didn't hide. So there's been a mistake here. You could've sent the helicopters, you could've picked up the others. Now, that's part of the job. There's a second side to it, which is... it's always said, sir, that smuggling in this area is, of course, traditional. (Sir, it's not legal to smuggle out of a country from the borders, it's a crime, but as I just said, the punishment for smuggling is not death. Therefore, the state would have to take precautions. On a third subject, who gave this order? That's where it all locks up. Since it was across the border, it was not possible to be given this order by commanders or security forces in the region. As a matter of fact, when we read some jurnals, it turns out to be an order given by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. First, it appears that the artillery was allowed to fire, then the order was taken back, and then the planes were bombed. Now, the important thing here is, who gave this order from the Joint Chiefs? Since cross-border operations have been given direct authority to the government, it must be well assessed whether the government has given this authority to the General Staff. If this order from the Joint Chiefs of Staff was given by the Chief of Staff, then the Prime Minister must know. So, in another way, when you actually look at things objectively: Now, after the explosion of this bomb and the death of 34 people here, it's interesting that the Prime Minister immediately paid $100,000 extra. For what reason? Why would you put $100,000 on top of $23,000 without any research, without anything being done? And when you put it to good use, that means that the people who actually gave you this money knew about it. But what interests me most was: Who gave me the intel on the firing order given by the Joint Chiefs? MIT says I didn't. Then who gave it to you? It is said that it is not by instruction from the Herons, so is there or is not the United States of America in it? Or at the time of this order.......... the arrests were taking place. An important intelligence group of the PKK has been wiped out by ACK arrests. In fact, until then, until Uludere, the PKK had been in a pretty fragile position. So who gave this order, this intel, and caused this bombing? These need to be studied very well, and those who gave that instruction were actually able to sit at the table with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and form agreements together. You can't just sit at the table and talk to the PKK. From the Oslo talks to the Imran talks, I think it's all based on the beginning of this incident. So we believe it's not right for the Uludere issue to be passed on with such a public report. Therefore, it is imperative that this be thoroughly investigated, investigated in all aspects, and provided and seen some information that has not been delivered to the Human Rights Commission. Because the key answer here is who gave you this information? It sits on top of it. In fact, if it turns out to be by whom the intelligence was given, the matter of the Uludere will be revealed in its full clarity. We think it's a trick of a Turkey, or something else, that all of this will come out on its own. Therefore, I would like to point out that this research proposal must also be addressed seriously, and that we have seen this offer as a positive one. Here, speaking of which, I would like to point out in particular that today is all about the law, about the drinking of alcohol, about the two drunkards. Here, Governor Huseyin Çelik said: "No one was meant to be here; Ahmet is Mehmet. A Prime Minister can't just make a speech, my friends. No one must forgive me. If you say that in a law, sir, when you accept adultery tomorrow, when you release it, then you have to speak the same logic in the mindset that frees adultery. Hence, such matters are very serious. He shouldn't be involved in an argument that would cause a number of debates, even competitions, over the country. With all due respect, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0172par0049	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0173par0050	Mr. President, during his speech, he said some things about the sentences I used, and I'd like to make a statement about them.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0172par0051	But then you fixed it up, and they took it to the thing.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0173par0052	There's been a misunderstanding, and he may have misunderstood himself, and the General Assembly may have a false opinion.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0172par0053	Well...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0173par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. In a sentence I just used during my speech, Your Honor, it made some sense. In that speech, I tried to emphasize that all the beliefs in this country are precious. I told you from persecution to Judaism, from Christianity to Islam, to Sunnimity, to Aflammation, that we value all faiths at the same rate. From our point of view, the fire worshiper is valuable, and the one who worships God is valuable, and the one who doesn't believe at all, and when I made that speech here, I especially wanted to call the vice president of the ruling party and the Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister or any official of the EC PARTY group is not only the Prime Minister of Muslims in this country, nor is he responsible for them. I told you that 76 million is an authority responsible for every group of beliefs living in this geography. Thus, I had stated that it should be noted when expressing thoughts about Zarathism or about different beliefs. I brought a review from here: I said that we are against Islam's attempt to be Turkified. So if you enter a division called Islam, Islam, Kurds, Kurds, which is much older in the history of converting to Islam, I've expressed that the Kurds now live their lives in respect of other beliefs with more concern than the other peoples, at the point of religious concerns that they see themselves as Muslims. Therefore, the use of the brand of fire here does not carry an insult. As I said, starting thousands of years ago today, every individual, every citizen, whatever their faith, even without faith, is precious to us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not a subject for politics, either. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0174par0063	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Ihsan Sener, MP of the Army against the Republican People's Party Group proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0069	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party -- on December 28, 2011 -- against the motion to investigate a really sad event -- and I salute you all. This kind of thing really needs to be cleared up, so here's the deal. We worked on it for over a year with the subcommittee of the Human Rights Review Commission. I'd like to thank the friends who contributed -- from the opposition, from the power. The duration of the research commissions is 3+1 or 2. So, in this long period of time, we've come up with a report in an effort to gather all the information and documents. Our fellow lawmakers from opposition parties have also written the opposition statements. I, of course, have carefully read the opposition of these friends, with the skill of being President of the Commission. Let me make it clear: In the course of this event, there are structural, employment, security flaws, and political flaws, and we have stated that in light of the information and documents that we have obtained about them, we have found no evidence of intent.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0176par0073	Did you call the Joint Chiefs?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0074	Mr. Hasip Kaplan said the expression "no intention" was used. It's not true.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0177par0075	If you'd taken that expression out.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0076	No, now, look, there's a very clear statement there. We haven't been able to access the document on the information and documents we've acquired.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0177par0077	They didn't answer you, you didn't listen...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0078	You can appreciate that the Commission is a review commission based on this incident, and in order to prevent an emotional dissolution process of what really happened, the opposition MPs, the presidents, the government members of the ruling party, the commission established in parliament, tried to be with those people in the region, the people in pain. Here, the efforts of opposition and power are admirable, and I want to underline it once. Sadly, such events -- we can go back to the past -- but they can't be solved shoulder to shoulder with the operators of a system that led to the deaths of more than 30 of our citizens in 1977, in Majors in 1993, in Sivaza, in Yavi, in 1993. There's a system going wrong here. Every person who feeds on this system, who tries to protect this system, is responsible for these deaths. In Turkey, we cannot overcome these events by defaming, humiliating, humiliating the efforts of the AK PARTY every time to create the facility of justice, the facility of full democracy, and the mechanisms of an accountable state. It's obvious what we have to do. What we have to do is deal with the system that produces these deaths. This system has always produced death at certain times. Did you stand next to the government to account for the system's transparency, for the democraticization of the system, for the full establishment of justice, for the operators of this system and for the people involved in operating the dark system? Each of us has to answer that question with our conscience. What needs to be done is this: Yes, it is truly sad, that we feel the pain of the mothers there in our hearts, we feel it, we go, we see it together. Exactly, what needs to be done...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0178par0081	You're in charge of the system, you. You've been in charge for 11 years.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0082	Please, please...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0178par0083	What do you mean, please?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0084	What needs to be done...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0178par0085	You've been running this system for 11 years. What are you defending?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0086	We've been dealing with your senseless opposition for 11 years. Please...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0178par0087	Leave the system.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0179par0088	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0089	What needs to be done is by hand to intervene in the processes that produce these deaths.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0178par0090	You're always feeding on this place! That's enough! That's enough, Sistem. You're always feeding on this place!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0091	Now, my friends, this report is a report by the Human Rights Review Commission, and there is no report in the middle. I submit it to the review of those who say, "There is no report in the middle." This is the opposition of the Republican People's Party. We have prepared for them both, and our friends know that they are wrong-doers in all that they ascribe (unto Him). None of the subjects that we've been computing, writing, technical issues, intelligence issues, security issues have been mentioned here, but what has been done here? Every day, the incident has been explained; it's the things that each of us has witnessed, we've read all the documents together, we've seen all the footage together, and what's done is put in the calendar order of these things, and I'm actually saying in the end -- these people are responsible for the safety of these political people; they're responsible for the safety of these people. We're not a trial. What needs to be done here is done, the next process is a criminal matter. As for the criminal issue, the Diyarbakır Prosecutor's Office is continuing its investigation into the matter, and we will see the result together. From here, the Republican People's Party's initiative to shed light on the case may be met innocently, but the processes and structures that have led to these events, come, let's exchange them together, transform them, be more transparent, be more accountable, create a more fair system, you run in other lanes and become a supporter of other people. Let's all do what needs to be done together, turn the death-producing system into a system that respects the life of a human being, makes it proud, becomes a righteous system, and makes it an accountable system. There's no hesitation here, and that's what we're trying to do. Every spokesman who just came out of here says, "Let's not make this a political material." But every time, he uses non-fair sentences with the logic of saying hello to the picker to get a political runt from here. The right things are done in the right ways. I'm against the motion to investigate, and the reason is that in three months, four months, that's what we get...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0180par0095	Look for a system, Hodja! Find out if it's a glitch in the system.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0096	So what needs to be done is very clear.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0180par0097	Don't run, don't run!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0098	We're not running anywhere.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0180par0099	Look it up, the system, or something!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0100	What we have to do is very clear. How do you cooperate with the people... that everyone's purity is sacred, that everyone's vote is sacred, that we don't appoint who will vote here, that it will be voted in a moment...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0180par0101	Look it up, the system will come out!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0175par0102	...that I personally don't think that the motion for this research proposal to establish a research commission would contribute to the enlightenment of this event. Therefore, I say I am against this motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0181par0105	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0182par0106	Mr. President, my friends must be waiting for revelation or the demons have come and done it! There's no one!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0181par0107	Wait a second, we're taking turns now.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0183par0108	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Speaker, the Republican People's Party member Mr. Levent, who has caused the death of 34 of our citizens in Uludere, has assessed the contents of our friend's opposition, as an irresponsible opposition martyr. I'd like a word from Mr. Levent Gök for bullying, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0181par0109	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0184par0113	Mr. President, we're discussing one of the most tragic events in our recent history of Turkey. Of course, in this time period, we don't discuss everything, but the Speaker of the Human Rights Commission, the President of the Ulidere Subcommittee, Mr. Sener, has considered the opposition our party has written to be irresponsible and in service to other parties. This report, my dear friends, has been published and shared with the public. The struggle for human rights requires important battles, and we offer them to the public's appreciation. However, Mr. Ihsan Sener, president of the Uludere Subcommittee, did he write that report himself, the report prepared by the AKP? Because the last time we came to our meeting, our witnesses were here -- friends, I just saw this report. We've taken all the evidence ourselves and written it in our report and shared it with the public, but what will Mr. Ihsan Sener explain to us about something he's expressed? That report is a full exculpatory report, a full closure report, a ruling report which states that the PKK members have infiltrated 34 people and is a legitimate report. Our minutes aren't available here. Of course, they also received that power from the Prime Minister, who has already guided them by saying in a live broadcast that he is always a civilian, always a civilian, let's see if there are any terrorists among them. This report is not a report prepared by members of the AKP, and the Commissioner has already admitted it, but this report is our own report as well as our own.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0185par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0186par0117	Mr. Sener, I'll give you my word, but let's listen to Mr. Hasip Kaplan, and then let's listen to both of them... Yes, just a minute, Mr. Kaplan, what do you say, let me see him first.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0187par0119	Mr. President, the Subcommittee's report has no intention. He explained their conclusion regarding the concept of the concept of the subcommittee. He explained their opinion by ignoring the Civil Code provisions. He said it wasn't judicial. That's not true.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0186par0120	Okay, here you go. But don't get mad, please. We've just calmed it down.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0187par0122	Of course, that's the problem, guys. You're not a court of law. If you were in court, if you were fair... you went to Şırnak as members of the Human Rights Commission, the border division commander İlhan Company told you that we had no idea about the bombing. You asked him, he answered you, it's 21 a.m. He said it was closed to air traffic at 00. Well, if you're investigating that meaning, wouldn't you ask, who made that decision from the Chief of Staff? Who was sitting behind a desk at the Air Force Command in Malatya? Who gave the order to Diyarbakır from there? Which pilots flew it? From which Heron did the information come? Which Predator did he come from? 34 of our citizens across the border are being slaughtered, murdered, and you can't listen to a single one. You couldn't bring a single officer to the House and listen. How, for God's sake, do you come to this conclusion without having to listen to one officer, one officer, one conscience? Intention is here, intent is in this blackout, intent is in this report. This mistake won't save you, you'll be questioned in front of history. I'm telling you that this is a historical responsibility, and I'm telling you that we've referred it to the Attorney General's office, to Diyarbakır. Did you listen to Kurdistan administration across the border in Iraq? Did you listen to the Americans for the Predators? You couldn't listen to a corporal, a corporal, a corporal! You wrote a black page on behalf of the House. This report is a black mark, it won't exonerate you. You still have a chance, come on, we'll fix it together. And I say, "Please, our wound is deep, don't dig, don't dig." While we're talking, come along in the process, together, side by side, let's solve this together with the board of confrontations and truths. If you want peace, let the main opposition come, and you too, come, and we'll solve it together. Look, MHP wants to investigate, too. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0188par0125	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Sener, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0189par0129	Now, Mr. Kaplan, you're a lawyer, and I think you're capable of understanding what you're reading.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0190par0130	I was a criminal attorney for 32 years. I'm a civil rights lawyer, I know what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0189par0131	What the report means, that sentence, it's very clear. We have no intention there. We don't use the expression, it's one. Secondly, Mr. Levent Gök, we had an evaluation meeting. At this review meeting, all of our fellow commissioners -- not research, but the review commission -- each put their own opinions on this meeting, and the rapporteurs filed a report on the Commission. A long time later, when we got together, I saw the report from the reporters, which was based on our views. I said, "This is one." Second: This report is the product of these members of the Commission, which is the product of members of the Commission, which you are involved in. Never...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0191par0134	But you said that word.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0189par0135	No, I'm telling you why I told you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0191par0136	I just saw this report. You said.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0189par0137	Guys, I'm telling you now why I said it. Two months later, after we did the evaluation, the rapporteurs filed a report. When we came together to evaluate this report, I said, "I'm just seeing this report, just like you." That's right. Because we're not gonna write with our hands. Our thoughts will be expressed by the reporters.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0191par0139	You said that at our vote meeting, Mr. Ihsan, at the meeting where we voted, there are witnesses here. That's not possible.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0189par0140	No, no, Mr. Levent, please, please. And other friends of ours bear witness to it, and the date is witness to it, and the records are witnesses.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0191par0141	Of course.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0189par0142	So this is the report of our commission -- very clearly and clearly. Our commission is behind your report, and I hope, I hope, that this kind of darkness, this kind of darkness, this kind of hurt our nation deeply, that all the troubles that we've experienced will never happen again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0192par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0193par0146	Now, go over here. They've all been talked about. Say it loud, and I'll vote on it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0192par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0193par0148	No, no, Mr. Furcier, say it out loud in front of your group over there, and you'll get a report.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0192par0149	Well, Mr. President, the President of the Commission, the Subcommittee, is giving false information. This commission report was adopted only by the votes of members of the majority, members of the Justice and Development Party. Three opposition parties voted against it. As this report was written and the report was discussed at first, we stated that we were fundamentally opposed to procedure and content, and we gave our opposition appeal. This report was adopted on the basis of majority votes against members of the AKP, CHP, DP and BDP. We don't agree with the content of this report, basically, with its process, with its method. We are fundamentally opposed to the approach this report is trying to make, and we have opposition to it. So it's not our report, it's their report.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0193par0150	Okay, Mr. Furcier, he's in the report.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0194par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0193par0152	Sir?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0194par0153	There is a commission set up in accordance with Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. This commission is determined according to the relevant clause of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Interior, according to the number of MPs represented according to which political party group received the vote. Our commissions are usually 17 people. Ten of them -- within the scope of the vote -- are the AK PARTY Group, four are the Republican People's Party Group, two are the National Movement Party Group, and one is the Party of Peace and Democracy.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0195par0154	3, 3.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0194par0155	The EC PARTY members of the Commission established here by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have said yes, this report is the report of the EC PARTY. It is wrong to say.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0196par0156	Is there anyone else who says yes?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0194par0157	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has established this Commission, and this report has been recorded as the report of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0197par0158	Yeah, yours is on the record, too.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0198par0159	Mr. President, of course, the report is from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0199par0160	Mr. President, anyone can be hostile...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0197par0161	One moment, Mr. Godkulu, let me hear Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0198par0162	The report was drafted on the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but, therefore, we are not in opposition to such a report.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0200par0163	He's already been compromised, but Turkey is a report by the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0198par0164	By your vote, by the majority's will, it was accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0201par0165	I'm just going to correct one mistake, sir: The Human Rights Review Commission is not a Commission established under Article 98 of the Civil Code, nor is the number of members. It's built by the law...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0202par0166	He said it for the general commissions.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0201par0167	Yes, sir. It's a legal commission. Mr. Group Vice President mispronounced.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0203par0169	Right, right, correcting: the Human Rights Review Commission has established a subcommittee within itself. This subcommittee has also been distributed according to the date.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0204par0170	Mr. Elitaş, I've already fixed it, I've fixed it, you mean the general commissions.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0205par0171	Mr. President, shall we discuss the Commission or the motion? The issue of discussion is not the Commission or the Commission; it is the debate, the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0204par0172	Now, if you'd like, Reverends, thank you very much, all of you, look, television closes at seven o'clock, you'll meet an important law, and I'll direct it. The reason I'm nervous is that friends who are going to make speeches are being watched by our nation by their words on television. I'll vote on this proposal, and we'll look at it again after seven, okay? I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked third in the 3rd place, under the Law of the Organization for Higher Education. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 453 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu wants to take a stand on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0206par0197	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the High School Institutions Act on behalf of the National Movement Party. I salute you all. Education, one of Turkey's most important problems, has become increasingly insurmountable with AKP power. Human resources must be planned and programmed without the luxury of spending a single individual, the Januarys, which are planned and programmed for human resources. Education is a lifelong service to individuals. Education directly affects the economic, social, cultural and political developments of societies. In national income, we want to enter Turkey's top 10 ▪2023 for the first 20 countries in the world. Those who call it a $500 billion export and a $25,000 income per person in 2023 don't care that the human resource that is going to provide it is in the 43rd place in mathematics, in the 41st place in the reading, in science, in the 43rd place. We all know that Turkey is also ranked last among the OECD countries, which are also the last in the 11 criteria, including income, employment, education, health, environmental conditions, and security, in the quality of life index published by the OECD each year. It was already in the press two days ago. A unital increase in individual education is the basis for significant improvements in these criteria, which we just expressed above, whose name we count. Human resources, modern science and technology, are only possible by quality and quality of education, in the way that society and working life are needed. One of the most important steps to be given in quality education is universities. Because the purpose of universities to exist is to open, guide, and enlighten society as the most dynamic and active elements of societies. In this light, universities are the place where you learn to judge, to reason, to question, to sense of responsibility, to dream, to develop visions, to have excitement and enthusiasm for life and learning. In college, the worldview is earned; regardless of the circumstances, the methods of accessing information and choosing the correct one among all data are learned. Higher education is an industry with the most advanced brains in a country, which produces qualified manpower, home to science, research, technology production. The competitiveness of countries also depends largely on educated and qualified manpower. And colleges are the key institutions to make that happen. After what we've been doing since just now, in terms of the importance of education, it's like, when we look at what steps they can take in our country, we can actually see that our country is in a real pain in education, and we can easily say it. Now, in Turkey, universities have very important problems. In general, we know that universities have problems, first of all, salaries and essence problems; we know that the NGO has a centrality problem; we can see that human resources have an evaluation problem; we can see that there is a management problem, and we can see that universities have real problems in creating vision. (x) 453 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. If we count the above items among the common problems of universities, then the newly established universities also have their own personal problems. These include physical infrastructure problems, economic problems, institutional culture failures, and qualified elemental problems. Professor Cahit Arf, one of the scientists our country raised during the republic, made a significant emphasis on universities in his speech, not university, but university. In general, is there enough infrastructure for the university, is there enough faculty, is there a library, and is there enough data networks, is their technology and labs equipped with age-appropriate equipment, building, land and other possibilities, is the social environment suitable for that, and is the municipality where the university will be opened, in the eyes of citizens, a basis for how the new university is perceived and how it should be? In the world that has changed with the advances in IT technology, universities need to be redefined. Now, living, living universities interacting with the environment for 24 hours are on the agenda. New generation universities are rapidly spreading with open interdisciplinary transitions, multi-directional interactions. The new generation of universities, which can look at multi-directional, think about multiple areas of expertise, aim to raise individuals in common with each other, finds a place to live in public, with society, and opens the door to everyone, not by closing the doors to what our active universities are doing, but with society, together with society. In a new generation of universities, students and professors are preferred to work together to work as team members as partners and to market information. Now, there's a need for colleges that have a high added value, who have a say in the world. The leading country falls to our universities to carry out Turkey. For this, the number of scientific articles and references in high-quality universities, RD spending, student rates, performances of websites, patent numbers are important. For example, in terms of patent numbers in particular, the best universities in Turkey are applying for 20 patents in ten years, while the good universities in the West are shown to reach up to 277. In another way, when we consider events in terms of the number of students at university head, according to URAP data in 2012, the number of students still per student member at many universities still appears to be more than 50. In some universities, even over 100. In another way, we can see that the situation is much more dire in terms of the library properties of the university and even one of the quality indicators of that country. The total number of books in the libraries of all universities in Turkey is 11,700, while there are about 30 million volume books in the world's largest library of American Congress, about 15.5 million books at Harvard University and Boston University. Are we aware that the total number of books in the libraries of all universities in Turkey has not even reached the number of books at an American university? One of the main problems of higher education is the evaluation of quotas. At the moment, many science and literature faculty in our country have come to a close because they can't find students. In the last three years, the quotas for science and literature have been reduced to 10 grand, and yet the quotas remain empty. More than half of the quotas remained empty in 2012. In 11 years, the performance of the AKP (AKP) who has been in power since 2002 is not really evaluated by these alone. Because of the lack of quotas, 58 episodes have been shut down. The number of people who prefer the departments of university science in the country is not more than two, or three. Scores have dropped by about 30 or 40 points. The students -- these are very important issues, friends -- have won these chapters by doing 15 percent of the questions alone. If we want to create our own science as a nation to develop, develop, move forward and sustain ourselves, shouldn't we re-enact these parts, make them attractive, make them preferable, and make it able to produce the science and technology that the age requires? In 2012, a report was written in Turkey called Basic Sciences, State of the Union and what needs to be done. According to this report, science and technology should be produced, not from underground sources, to achieve the goals set for 2023. According to this report, a pound of rice is two dollars a pound, a pound of flesh is 15 dollars a pound, a kilo of car is 50 dollars a pound, a kilo of aircraft is 250 dollars a pound, a laptop is a kilogram of 1,000 dollars a pound, a cell phone is a kilogram of 5,000 dollars a pound, a satellite is about 100,000 dollars a pound, superconductor accelerators. Now, this shows that our country's level of development can only be increased through science and high-tech production, given the importance it deserves in the field of basic sciences. Another reason for this pathetic state in science and literature schools is the uncertainty of teaching training in teaching teachers. In your ten-year period of power or eleven years now, students have been victimised by changing permanent decisions regarding formation. The same injury is actually true of education schools. There have been so many education schools in your term that hundreds of thousands of students are now left unemployed and helpless with wrong employment policies. The AKP's power is persistently conflicting with its policies. When you opened computer and teaching classes in education schools and were training teachers, students in schools are already coming with computers on purpose. You removed computer classes. However, these lessons were brought back to the 4th and 5th classes a week ago. We'd like to report that, at least wherever the error is, it's a profit, and we'd like to point out that that's a positive attitude. Again, the project of the year, the technology based FATHIH Project, which you refer to as the project of the year, cannot be explained by any concept of ignorance in other secondary schools. The salaries and autonomy rights of university professors are also important among university problems. It is known to everyone in our country that academic salaries are really low, given the overall pay scale. Although many promises have been made, the victims of researchers and assistant professors remain unresolved. Thirty years ago, researchers' salary was 38 percent higher than the engineer's salary. As of 2013, researchers' salary is 2,200 lira, assistant professor $2,600, branch manager's $3,250, engineer's salary is $3,400; I'll leave you to calculate the difference. The academic rights at universities have been destroyed. With your fees, it is no longer possible to keep academics in universities. What scientific work do you expect them to do with these coins? With what face will 2023 Turkey be entered? Besides, the investigators have no job descriptions, there are even those who report that their teachers wash their cars, clean their houses. Such dramatic and shameful events have also been noted in history. Furthermore, limiting the degree faced by assistant professors and limiting the amount of time in their work must be eliminated. I'd like to stress in particular that in order to address the quality problem at the university, it is essential to solve the autonomy problems of academics. The system brought and imposed by the SEC is an ideological, centrist, enforcer, authoritarian system. This system forces all universities to wear one type of dress. As AKP, you have had no complaints as to the issues you were most concerned about before you came to power, since you came to power and took control, and you are still running universities through the YOC Act of the 80s. It is still insisted on raising youth through a non-commercial education system. In our country, vocational education has lost its appeal. In 2013, only 27 per cent of the students who passed the dam from vocational schools in the first edema exam, especially the University of Higher Education exam. You have just rejected the proposal for the problems of vocational and technical education provided by the National Movement Party, saying, "We have solved the problems of employment and technical education as AKP authorities." Here, in fact, even this number, just the fact that the percentage of students who have won the university exam and won the first step are 27 percent, shows that the problem is sitting in front of us like a snowball, we want to point out that. Now, there are many problems, we can actually increase them, we can increase these examples. Since the training levels are interconnected, they must be evaluated in a whole body, as there are levels of continuation of each other. The most important printouts of education are the employment of graduates. In the newly released report of OECD (OECD), the unemployment rate between 15-24-year-olds is 18.4%, especially reportedly nearing 20 per cent in college graduates. The results of these reports need to be interpreted very carefully and thoroughly. This issue brings up the content and policies of universities' education. Also, countries need to evaluate their youth policies. The use of youth as material in recent alcohol - related regulations has made us nationalist Movement Party members very sad. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we know that the majority of Turkish youth is far from bad habits. The latest study by TÜİKbook also states that 83 per cent of youth does not drink alcohol at all. With faith in this data and our youth, we don't want the young, the Prime Minister, who drinks and drinks day and night, to be left in this situation for no reason at all. Youth is the future, the future of the people. What environments did you present to them in 11 years of power so that they might be raised to the best of them? Our young are worthy of the best, they are our pride. For this, we say: As the Nationalist Action Party, we hope and hope that our new five universities will provide the quality education they deserve for young people who are our future, according to the criteria we state above. At the same time, we wish both students and guardians the success of the AKP's government, which has been in conflict for 11 years and will again be attending the test marathon, which will begin on June 8th. Hopefully, we say thank you and wish this matter resolved as soon as possible.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0207par0220	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0208par0224	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been offered to change the name of the 1 foundation university with the number 453 rankings today, and five new foundation universities have been established. Two of the new five foundation universities are thematic universities, one of which will provide education and training in forensic science, and the other one is a university of the foundation established in Consia, which has been called my teacher and food. Now, first of all, I would like to express our views on the proposal to change the name of the University of Gold Koza to the University of Ipek. The University of Gold Koza was not founded years ago, it was newly founded, and shortly after it was founded, a change of name was proposed. The foundation, the founder -- the foundation founded by a conglomerate -- proposed the first word of the name with the addition of gold, as a university name, and now offers the second word as a university name and wants to change it. Now, dear lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, if a foundation university is not even named correctly when it's being established, and it's being offered a change of name shortly after it's been established, isn't that an indication of how sloppy, how sloppy, how pre-explorational the foundation universities are? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] The esteemed lawmakers realized that after a university was founded, the translation of its name to foreign languages would not be pleasant, not liking its Russian, offering to change its name. We also watch this surrendering attitude regarding the university's names at the commission meetings. We object when the names that are repetitive of non-English companies are given to universities. The ruling party MPs often agree with this objection. The answer we got was: 'E, my soul, that's what the foundation wanted.' What does the PLO do? We really think it's worth investigating what's behind this surrendering attitude against the holding universities. His name is now being changed to the University of Ipek. Dear friends, look, the university name is very important because the university's name is in the diploma. That degree is not only in Turkey, but in worldwide circulation. It's been completely upset when the name on it has meaning, either the characteristics of the city associated with education, or the fact that it's connected to the names of the founders or the Turkish elders. Look at the college names: Medipol. Dear friends, do you have a university name called Medipol? Consider the name of the university proposed today: Soon we'll see that the names of refrigerators and washing machines have been offered as college names. Look, get on the record, and we'll see, because it's completely out of tune. I'm stressing that such a non-responsive attitude should say stop immediately because this approach is beginning to lose values and importance, such as devalue universities and, unfortunately, evaporation of universities. Now, valued lawmakers, look, the foundation universities that are founded here, we say, yes, they are. There's no balance, there's no balance, there's no plan. There are 36 foundation universities in Istanbul. Today the 37th is founded, called Esenyurt University. So, are these universities able to meet or meet the needs of a professor? Do they have an obligation to raise professors? This was never on the agenda of the ruling party. So in this country, the obligation to raise professors belongs to state universities, where professors are given the advantage of importing and privilege of the foundation universities. Of course, I'm keeping some of the foundation colleges that raise their own professor out of it. I respect them. I'd like to emphasize that they're highly qualified. Now, the foundation colleges are opening up three-to-five. They don't come in single, so they're three-five, three-five. Have we thought about why suddenly opening a foundation college became so popular? I wonder if there's an advantage to opening a foundation college. I'll give you those advantages first. How do you open a foundation college first? The foundations cannot establish a higher education institution in order to benefit them. It is one of the basics of Higher Education Law 2547. Now, how do you open foundation colleges? You've opened the foundation university, some financial conveniences are being provided. For example, when you import a machine, tools, equipment, materials, literature for educational purposes, you are exempt from customs tax, painting and mortar. Now, I never criticize this for real colleges. I also think that real foundation colleges need that kind of support. Now, to his second advantage, land and building allocation. Public corporate land and buildings can be assigned to foundation universities. I know that very well, and I know what colleges are assigned to. The third is much more important. See, they're making a budget of foundation universities, one year of education, research, library, investment costs and other spending pens, which are two years past its establishment. I'd like to stress that the investment is involved, especially to get your attention. Now, they're making a year's budget. They can receive government assistance not to exceed 45 per cent of this one year's budget. Dear lawmakers, it is a great advantage to receive government assistance so as not to exceed 45 per cent of this. It is one of the most important reasons for this opening permit to be given, carefully, with precision, that the foundation universities are rapidly opening under these conditions. Now, that's not enough, there are advantages. Now, in the new SEC draft -- we haven't seen the last form yet -- it was also brought to the attention of the state scholarship to foundation college students, and I don't know the final version. Now, if this is all about real foundation colleges, I mean, there's no profit in it, and the government's helping them, it could be, it can be debated, but I'd like to present another imbalance with concrete figures. These foundation colleges get student fees, don't they, fellas? So, what's the difference between the annual tuition fee of one foundation college and the other? I'll give you an example. The annual tuition fee of one foundation university medical school is 47,500 liras, another person's 32,500 liras, another one's 24,000 liras, and another one's 21,000 liras. Dear lawmakers, why does the difference between $47,500 and $21,000 not interest the SEC? Why isn't the Ministry paying attention? Why isn't this being questioned? Do we live in such an unclaimed country? Is that how much our children are left unattended? Now, it can be said, sir, that one of them had infrastructure. I'm talking about the money the medical schools of colleges, which have great hospitals, whose hospital is named after them, get paid 47,500. The amount of $24,000 I gave you in exchange is the money taken at the medical school of a very valuable, very high-quality college that has a serious health care institution. Now, if you say you don't give medical education at 21,000 liras, then why are you letting me borrow 21,000 liras? No, it costs 21,000 lira, enough. If you say so, why do you approve of the purchase of 47,500 liras? See, valued lawmakers, everyone knows that engineering and architecture education is more expensive than social sciences, economic administrative sciences and law. Everybody knows that. Now, I'm going to give you student fees in order, with some examples. They're pretty much the same, I'll tell you that. Now, $15,500 for the architecture engineering faculty, college, $1,500 for law school, 15,500 liras of economic education for the faculty of administrative sciences -- law education -- is a class, a teacher, a board; so much more than that -- is $2,000 more expensive than the others. Why? I'll give you another example: 24,900 lira architecture, $27,500 law school education, $24,500 education in economic administrative sciences. 24,000 liras of law education, 21,000 liras of economic education in administrative sciences. Do you know what this is? This is a clear indication that colleges set a fee based on commercial basis, not on student cost, but on supply and demand rules, and that's exploitation, that's wrong. If the NGO does not object, I really think it is our right to question and wonder what the NGO is doing. We're looking at open law schools, there's a lot of demand. So, is there a professor? Now, let me give you an example: one of the new universities has started education and education. Law school, 1 professor, he's the dean, 3 assistant professors. There's another, one professor, one professor, four assistant professors. You can't train a department like that. Why are they doing this? It's done by foundations that use foundation colleges as a means of profit. Who's controlling it? No one's checking. This is a very serious problem. If this can't be resolved, the foundation universities will continue to provide education and education with empty quotas in the coming years, as they did this year. Look, 20.1 percent of their quota this year remained vacant, and 19.161 were unable to fill. Now, what does the foundation colleges do? They began to calculate how to bring in a student from abroad. Look, let's bring up the situation of a family who sent their child to the foundation college. He has to pay a tuition fee of at least 2,500 lira a month, at most 5,000 liras, in addition to that, textbooks. What these schools offer in high-end standards is to take advantage of their food opportunities, eat and drink in their canteens and cafeterias. It's the colleges' clothing and transportation costs that fit the rich family standard. When you calculate all of this, it turns out that at least 3,000 lira a month should be divided into children's education. Now, why is he sending his kids to foundation colleges, the middle-income family? Because he couldn't win a community college. So, what happens to these kids if there's a concussion in that family's economic situation? I told Mr. SEC President, shortly after he was elected, that there had to be a solution, at least an arrangement for the transfer of these students to a state university, that we would work on it. Look, there was no sound. Now, I want you to feel this in your heart: a mother came to me. Your parents were in good economic condition when they sent their kids to foundation college. Father's dead, deceased, no father. The father was in business. The kid's in the middle. Do you know what your parents want? One year, just one year, the university will freeze the record -- let it freeze the register, we don't want anything else -- and he'll work for a year -- he's in third grade -- he'll save up that money and complete his 4th year education. You know what we got? To freeze a record, a year's tuition must be paid in advance. This is the answer we received. Well, who's gonna protect it? Who's gonna take care of these kids? There are tragedies here, dear friends. Not one, not ten; dozens of people phone every month. People are going through all this. Can't we come up with a solution to this? Can't the children of families in this situation be transferred to public universities horizontally? It can be passed, of course it can be passed, but it's not done. Why isn't it done? I hope the authorities who are obliged to answer that answer will respond soon, I hope. Now, these universities are giving scholarships, that's what they're saying, dear, they already have a scholarship quota. It's based on success. Why is it based on success? Because the student who got a scholarship to success has scored way above the average standard of that university. That scholarship is actually a prestigious acquisition scholarship to the university. When you bring a high-profile student to college, I got a student with this score. He's advertising and marketing colleges, saying, "Well, you can't get a scholarship to students who are in need, who have low income, or who have changed family conditions when they're in college. Now, it's easy to open a foundation college. In the new SEC draft, I hope it changes -- the Council of Ministers will sign it before the General Assembly arrives, the foundation universities will open, no one will even know about it, such an arrangement is being brought in. The important thing is to draw attention to the quality of the education and education of students at those foundation universities and to the negativeness of their economic conditions and to look after them. They're not the children of another nation, they're our children, they're the children of a very large family tragedy, they're the children's lives thrown away, they're the third, fourth graders of universities, they're the students of five years of universities. She's in medical school, she's in fifth grade, she has no money, she has to take a break from her studies, she can't, she's expelled. Here, I want to underline that all of this needs to be taken care of, and we all want to have more and more quality education when we open colleges. We all want a college degree to be worth something. See, we live in a country where one out of four young people with university diplomas is unemployed, so the degree is actually an instrument of competition in these relentless conditions of unemployment. Then let that degree be valued, that education is qualified, that the foundation colleges are provided with the requirement to raise their own faculty, and that the universities that don't raise their own faculty during which period of time should be prevented from taking students. There's a lot to be done, but unfortunately, we've said it so many times, all of this hasn't been done. I only ask one thing: education is a non-political area and it's a very sacred area. Please, let's not open a university to make education an instrument of political propaganda. Please, while bragging about the number of universities we've opened, let's make our higher education proud of its content, its quality, its quality, and the quality of its student. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0209par0250	Thank you, Mr. Serker. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Hakkari MP Adil Zozani. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0210par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party on the bill, and I salute you all. In fact, it's something you can say a lot without making me work on it too long. If we're talking about the problem of universities, there's no point in going to Turkey to work long and hard, collecting data. When you say a single sentence, you actually sum up the situation, and everything else, everything you say, is just detail. In Turkey, universities are in terrible condition. When you say that, you'll be summing up the status of universities in Turkey. I don't know if the Minister has the right to take it upon himself. He's the new Minister, but if he at least takes notes, at least listens to what we have to say, and we have these problems with our universities in our country. If he says and takes notes, I think we've done something useful. Colleges have names and so forth, so let's not get into it, you can name it whatever you want. In fact, let me explain at the beginning of my discussion with an example. For example, when they ask our children in schools right now, who invented the robot? Our children think of the Far Asian countries because they invented the robot in our educational institutions. Mr. Minister, if you're changing the names of the universities, I suggest that the University of Şırnak be named after the person who was the ancestor of cybernetic science. Once we know it, when we know our history. If we keep our own values, if we don't change our own history, if we don't pass on our own values, we'll be doing something much more useful than nothing else. I never forget a slap in my life. I'm not going to talk about the tortures I've seen in the jails or anything, but I never, ever forget a slap in my life, which is the slap that my teacher gave me when I was in elementary school. You know what he asked me about, the slap, the slap I got? He asked me the name of the Prophet's mother, and I called her Mrs. Zubeyde. You're the one who said that, he slapped me. Well, I'm surprised. Half the day, Mrs. Zübeyde was being memorized, and the other half of the day, Lady Amine was being memorized. I mistook what half of the day I was, and I said, "Madame Zubeyde, I've been slapped, I've never forgotten that slap. I got another slap, and he turned me against the government. What was that slap? I went to school as a nine-year-old country boy and didn't speak Turkish. I got slapped by my principal because I couldn't express myself in Turkish, and I'm not forgetting that slap. But he taught me to slap a word, you have to be hostile, you have to oppose to change things, you have to stand up straight. That slap helped me that way. I'm trying to put my finger on a painful reality. From our geography, children from our hometown, we begin training at a disadvantage of five years compared to your children. We were busy learning Turkish for five years, and when we learned Turkish, your children, the children in the West, who were native to Turkish, began to learn positive science. So it's not a coincidence that every year when the college exams were announced, the last 20 counties never changed, and we're wondering who's the first, but we know in advance who's the last one; it was the last year, and so was the year before that, and so was the year before that, and so was the year 20 years before that.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0211par0262	We're just like you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0210par0263	So is Hakkari.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0211par0264	And so is Bigeli.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0210par0265	If you're not smart, that's fine.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0211par0266	And so is Bigeli. We pay the most, we're at the end.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0210par0267	It's not like that, it's not like that. See, now, if you really put the education problem on the table with examples of education in Turkey, then yes, we would do good things if we were to go over the problem in Turkey as a whole and decide where to start. In the current case, none of your previous arrangements or previous regulations contribute to the solution of the education problem in Turkey; neither did 4+4+4, nor did the previous 8+4, since before -- because the problem is not solved in the form of times or over or plus. The problem is the problem of mentality, the problem of monotheism, the problem of ignoring different languages and cultures living in this geography. Now, some of our universities are being studied. For example, in order to find a name for him on the bench at Artuklu University, water was brought from forty rivers, 40 flips were thrown, and eventually the name of the Living Languages and Polishs was discovered.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0212par0271	There's a bit of Syriac, too.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0210par0272	We suggest: You don't have to go around like this, you don't have to call that university's unit the Living Languages and Polish. Yes, Mr. Secretary, there is also Syriac. Therefore, my suggestion is very important, so please note my advice: If you call it the languages and dialects that we cannot kill, you will be doing the right thing, putting in languages and dialects that we cannot destroy, you will be doing the right thing. It took a lot of work, a lot of effort to destroy it, but it didn't reach its goal. Now, you don't have to say "Live Languages and Polish," you say "we can't kill," and you serve the purpose. Today we're talking about the vast majority of students who graduated from universities -- let's not say students, we're talking about people who have lost hope of finding jobs -- who are now involved with many children. In Turkey, the unemployment data is always expressed and listed. There are about a million people in Turkey who have lost hope of finding a job. Therefore, it is no longer considered unemployed because it does not apply for employment at any institution. A million people and most of them are college graduates, and all of these people are now in a state of execution. You, supposedly, gave them a scholarship so they could read it, but you're going to get that scholarship somehow. Because he can't work, because he can't be employed, the government is now asking them for the scholarship he paid. When he doesn't have the power to pay, he sends executive officers to these people's doors. Such complaints must come to you, Minister, you know that. What are we going to brag about? It's a pity that the number of colleges is not a skill. Colleges have dropped below high school. At least there's a sign for high school, at least high school buildings. There's a university in this country that doesn't have a building. You want samples? Let me tell you about Hakkari University. We must have friends here from the YKK. Let them tell me the address of Hakkari University. Please, let one of them come out; I'd like to send a letter to Hakkari University, give me your address. No, ha, if you say: "If you deliver the letter to the police station in Depin, " it will happen, and so do we. What about college without a building? I'll tell you the strangest thing: the citizen who rented his property to Hakkari University, wow, is it you who rented his property to the university? It was illegal, so the university rented out its own building, and the government investigated it, and because of the wrongful purchase of property, he put that citizen, that Hakikili weirdo of mine in prison. Therefore, the citizen no longer rents out his property. The university has no place, the chancellor has no room to live. There hasn't been a ground study in three years in Hakkari. Let me go from Hakkari to Van. Recently, members of the Plan and Budget Commission's ruling party had dreamt about Van University. They said that the university of Van was short-staffed. The next day, they put a clause in the bill called 300 staff allocations to the university of Van, and they brought it, and we argue on the commission. He's made a positive distinction with Van, they've seen it in their dreams, they're going to do one right thing in their lives. While they're rejoicing, they're giving support, the same MPs are making a motion, they're withdrawing it with a motion. Why are you pulling back? Sir, we put this in, but I'm also a member of the provinces in other parts of Turkey, and the university in my science wants a staff from me, and I can't answer that question. They were supposed to make a positive distinction with Van. We've destroyed a lot, let's get the university up, let's get it up, let's get the staff up, let's get it up, let's get the students out of school. They said, "Whatever fell on their heads the other day, they pulled back the motion from the shock from the moment they got rid of that dream." Let's move on. Is it different from the university in Bitlis, the university in Misha, the university in Mardin? No, it's not different. And because of these inequality training conditions, there are constant problems. Look, a few hours ago, there was an argument here. Basically, if you get to the root of that argument, if you get to the bottom of it, you'll find the problem of education. If he's still a legislator in this country, and he's a minister, and he doesn't know anything about Zarathism, then people have to question our education. If Zarathism can still be insulted, we must review our own training. In what circumstances did we raise people, how did we mold our people's brains? A human profile that can easily insult the one that isn't its own, if we can find out, of course it's because of our educational problems. It's easy to insult those of us who don't, who don't think like us, who don't believe like us. This is where its origin is; it's the product of this monotheistic, fascist mindset. Another MP comes out and says, "Sir, everyone's identity is his own honor. It's the greats of fascism to honor someone else's identity, their ethnicity. Who are you to consider my identity an honor? But, whoever did this, it's happening. The basis of this fascist mentality is education. If we really want to get rid of this handicap, if we want to get rid of this handicap, we have to go over our education system all over again. In this geography, for years, decades, to be destroyed, to be finished, to restore language, the state has to be positive about those languages. It's the government's debt, it's the government's debt to tolerate the destruction it's created. So, if you really want to do something useful in universities, you have to start with universities to prepare the conditions for everyone to be able to study in their native language, infrastructure, and you have to design schools accordingly. All languages living in this geography need to be prepared for an infrastructure that can respond to the needs of all citizens who want to live in this geography and study with their native language. You have to design the faculty accordingly, and you have to redesign the education, you have to make it a liberal structure. Look, I've talked for almost 20 minutes, and I haven't even been able to address the problems of college students, the violence at colleges. Just yesterday, in Burdur, the students were beaten alone, but police intervened as a group. We report to the relevant mechanisms, the authorities, the problems of these students, we can't find anyone who's interested. Why? Because we've turned our universities against each other, turned them into campsite centers. We've created positions where people can't digest each other, where they can't accept each other, and we're responsible for that. Students throwing rocks at each other at colleges, breaking each other's heads, young people, it's not our fault, it's our fault, it's theirs to protect this mechanism. As long as you're protecting this mechanism, the students at colleges are going to break each other's heads. The discrimination here is revealed once again as a member of the administration, why are you underdog? It's your fault that you're the underdog. That's the second time he's been punished. He's already been transferred from college, he's already been suspended from education; he's barely won, he's gone, he's gone, he's been there. Come on, let's not say the Kurdish student, not to repeat the issue of discrimination again today, but the person who's been turned from his own identity is being attacked, and the police are keeping the attacker in line, and they're being punished for a second time. So, under the circumstances, when you talk about colleges, when you talk about education, basically, you have to turn this place into a little bit of a conversation, we have to face ourselves. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Gotta get down to the source of the trouble. You don't have the chance to solve these problems without going to the source of the trouble.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0213par0289	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0210par0290	Mr. President, thank you for your patience. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0213par0293	Thank you. In the name of his subjects, Mr. Nebi Bozkurt, Congressman of Mersin. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0297	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the amendment to the Law on Higher Education No. 453. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, it's about the law proposal, the changing the name of a university and the establishment of some foundation universities and their units. Name-calling, name-calling, of course, is as important to people as it is to the establishment, but the most important thing for a university is the scientific work that will be done there, the science, the universal thought, the development of the country. While a law proposal is being discussed in our parliament, it's often not about him, it's about what everyone thinks is important. Today, a lot of religion was mentioned in our House. And I, of course, am a theologian. While this bill was being discussed in the Commission -- I'm also in the National Education Commission -- they mentioned a lot of religion, sects, Maturidi, especially our Republican People's Party friends. When it comes to college, I'd like to talk about a book that I was very good at years ago. The title of the book is "Camalism," subtitled as an explanation of the Republican People's Party programme. So maybe our Republican People's Party friends will listen more carefully. Why is it called "Camalism," not "Cemalism"?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0215par0303	Who wrote this? Where is it written, where is it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0304	Here, sir. That's the name of the book.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0215par0305	I mean, how do we know if it's true or not? Give me that book.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0216par0306	Teacher, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0307	The author of the book is Edirne Saylav - Edirne MP - Honor Aykut.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0215par0308	Let's see how we know you're telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0309	It was published in 1936, and it's in the Library of Congress, you can see it from there, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0215par0310	Let's see it. Let's see it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0311	You can look from there.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0215par0312	Let's see if we can get it right here. Let's get it right. Let's get it right.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0313	In many parts of the book, the writer describes Kamalism as a religion. He says that living alone is a religion that instills in his religion and builds all his principles on economic foundations.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0217par0314	Who defines this?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0215par0315	Says who?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0316	It's in the book...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0217par0317	What book?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0318	CHP MP Honor Aykut sir, in 1936, I repeated.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0218par0319	Don't you think this person should come from your family?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0320	In the book, we also learn about some of the understandings of time as the CHP interprets its six arrows. On page eight, when the author talks about the state, he mentions that the Turkish nation has two states that suit its character, which are the United States of Ethi and the Republic of Ataturk. So, according to the author, the Ethirs, the Hitites, become Turks, and they say they're Turkish. Under the same title, the Ottomans' last sultan is referred to as the black man of the face.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0219par0321	I'll find a book and bring it and read it to you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0322	However, it is not so when we read the book of Murat Küpçı. Some of the decisions he's made under difficult circumstances can be discussed, but he doesn't deserve the faceless expression. Edirne says in the lawmaker's book: "A religion of kamalism is one of its greatest and main adjectives is that it is revolutionary. " He says that Kamalism is a religion in many places; he emphasizes it; under the title of governmentism, the stateism of Kamalism, the faithful tapans of Kamalism.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0220par0324	Is that the problem? What do we care?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0325	As the MP explained the CHP programme, the nationalism of Ataturk (Ataturk) only accelerated his party by grasping from the financial and economic aspect of history. While the party established nationalism in this way, it gave it a full view of life, decoding it from the religious stopping rules that had been frozen under the black cypress, which smelled of green mold. A similar expression is also found in the department of transparency. The Turkish nation writhes in the graveyards, against the dark shadows of the dim cypresses, against the mossy medreses, under the ovhams, the superstitions, and the urasahs.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0221par0326	Is this the book you found amongst thousands of books? You could read a better book.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0327	According to the author, living now is religious...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0222par0328	Forgive me, Mr. Commissioner, but what does this have to do with foundation colleges?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0329	Listen. Living now, finding blessings tomorrow in the afterlife, has destroyed his superstition.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0222par0331	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, what does this have to do with the foundation college?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0332	..objected, unseen.....
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0222par0333	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0334	Why don't we do an English history class, dear? Let's do it. According to the writer, living now has ruined his superstition to find a religion, a blessing in the Hereafter tomorrow. The worship is not the unseen truth, but the visible truth. The writer thus describes the belief of the unseen and the afterlife as a superstition.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0223par0336	Read the book of Sevki Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0337	Give me your answer, fellas. The CHP's Edirne MP, Aykut, already considers Islam a nightmare when he talks about the secularism principle. In those days, when you are living through the days of judgment, remember the days of darkness.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0224par0340	Don't read to me! Why don't you ask your grandfather? Your grandfather was from CHP! Is that what he saw?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0341	...that the Turkish nation's black day has lasted a little too long, a long and fearful dream, a little chilling, he says, and says that this long dream has lasted roughly three hundred and thirty-seven years. The book was written in 1935, and it's clear what he meant. One thinks that if it weren't for Ziya Pasha, who would have done Europe? ▪ Who would have awakened Europe from the sleep of ignorance if he had not kept the light on.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0224par0343	No one can think of such a thing!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0344	A Western writer Fernand Grenard says that Islam plays a dominant role in the development of the barbaric Europe, that the West received mathematics, physics, chemistry, trigonometry from Muslims. See the book "The Rise and Fall of Asia" published in the 1000 Basic Arts series.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0225par0346	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0347	A German scholar named Sigrid Hunke speaks of his deliverance from the darkness of Europe by Muslims in his work translated into Turkish as the Islamic Sun, which was born on Europe. There's more work written on the subject. A newly written work is the work of George Makdisi, called "The Rise of Colleges" by George Makdisi.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0225par0349	I wonder what kind of connection you're going to have to the foundation colleges!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0226par0350	Don't read such dirty books, I wouldn't advise you!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0351	I'm talking about The Rise of Colleges, the birth of universities. When they say so, the national excitement of Turkey is very deep, very powerful, in the book written by Edirne MP Aykut, which is the explanation of CHP's party programme. However, Islam's religion, full of promises that would set Arab people on fire, is a true Arab religion. Green gardens in the midst of the scorching fire of the deserts, dreams of flying with water gushing from all around them, and dreams of running with teas, and visions of paradise, were ready to ignite the Arab.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0227par0353	Find some other stuff! Just find something other than religion, that's enough, we're disgusted!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0354	For this reason, the Arab walked in the midst of the angry deserts thinking about the greens of heaven, and the Turk could not think about them because he was without theology. He speaks of Turkish religion, which is completely secular, which is Turkish religion. It's always been the Turk's idea to hit the animal, build the cart, put the wheel on the field, drive the field, mix salt meat in the turpentine, mix it with the turds and barn animals -- I think he means to make them domestically -- that's why we Turks found the wheel, too, dear friends. According to the author, in order to improve the villages -- pay attention to Republican People's Party friends in particular -- I call it the end of the village...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0228par0356	Yeah, tell yourself!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0229par0357	Come on, don't tell us anything!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0358	The grunting of my life, the still-heard, "softa" leftovers and "bad places" -- in the sense of blowing -- from the votes of grandfathers and fathers -- I mean, you may not understand -- the village boy, the basic pillars of the republic, he says.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0229par0359	That was a very successful speech, bravo! What just happened? What happened?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0230par0360	What does this have to do with foundation colleges?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0361	All right, guys, let's...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0231par0362	Way to go! The foundation colleges are proud of you!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0232par0363	So what did you tell him? What did you just say about foundation colleges?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0214par0364	I can tell by the way you've been yelling... that I wanted to do an English history class, so what's the big deal? Everyone talks about everything here.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0232par0366	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0233par0367	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0234par0368	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0235par0369	So it's a book written by a CHP MP. I salute you all. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause in CHP rows!]
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0236par0371	Mr. Bozkurt, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0237par0372	You're very wise, wise!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0238par0373	Are you recommending the book, what are you doing?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0239par0374	Mr. President, the speaker has made a statement to the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0240par0375	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0239par0378	Mr. President, on behalf of the AKP, a number of lawmakers have been appointed here from time to time as theologians. To be honest, I doubt they're theologians, so I don't know what schools, what colleges they graduated from. I see that my knowledge of theology is better than theirs. Now, they go to the dumps of history, they dig up things there, they find things, they bring them in, they study here.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0241par0380	Why do you feel uncomfortable?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0239par0381	Now, the speaker says: "Vacific universities are being discussed, where other religious issues are being brought up by opposition parties." So, Mr. Speaker, did you run over the book of 1935 and take them out of the library? What do you bring here from the 30th century? You say things that aren't true. There is nothing in Our history but that there is no associate in Our history, and there is no associating with Allah, and there is no setting up with Allah the Prime Minister and there is no worshipping Him.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0242par0384	Who's doing that? Who's doing that?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0239par0385	You ask your friends. Look, what did a congressman of yours say -- right now in this Parliament, here -- say?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0242par0387	You find out what a partner is, and then you talk.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0239par0388	Dear theologians, sit down and see what it means to be a partner. Your life is a partnership.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0242par0389	Behave yourself!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0243par0390	Listen! Listen!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0239par0391	We found the opportunity to be with Mr. Prime Minister. Even touching our Prime Minister is worship. Since when does touching people count as worship? How long has he been prostrating himself in front of people? That's your idea of religion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0244par0395	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0245par0396	I was gonna take a break from the merger, but here, let me hear you out.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0244par0397	Mr. President, when Mr. Hamzacebi gave his speech, when he responded to our MP, he accused the Prime Minister of having been placed with the Creator.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0246par0398	No, that's your congressman, not me.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0247par0399	That's where you're gonna tell him.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0248par0400	That's not true. He didn't accuse me.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0249par0401	We'll bring you all the documents.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0402	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0251par0403	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0405	Look, my dear lawmakers, theology is a different matter, the finances are a different matter.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0252par0406	What's he doing here at the foundation college, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0407	Mr. Aslanoglu, open yesterday's reports and examine them. The motion on the law we discussed yesterday has nothing to do with the law, what's said or said has to do with the law.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0253par0408	It was all about the law, let's see.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0254par0409	None of them... Don't throw it!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0410	Speaking today, MPs, both our friends from the CHP and the BDP Group...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0255par0411	They talked about training.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0412	They discussed technical issues, education.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0255par0413	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0414	And I thought, "Oh, how well spoken.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0255par0415	Oh, that's nice!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0416	I said everyone's bringing this up about the law. But in your tradition, when we look at it, there's not a word about the law, there's just something about the title of the law, there's insults behind it, there's slanders.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0255par0417	Where did we do it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0256par0418	You do it every day.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0250par0420	Mr. Aslanoglu, look at yesterday's reports. Theology is a different matter.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0256par0421	Then you don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0257par0422	I do. Do not address me, do not consult me, do not answer me.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0258par0423	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0256par0424	Calm down.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0257par0425	Don't talk to me!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0259par0426	Guys, look, what does it have to do with being a partner when you're expressing your faith, when you're using something?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0260par0427	Tell me... you have made the state of the Republic of Turkey a state of religion.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0259par0428	▪ To touch something, to look at something, to read something is to worship. What does it have to do with being a partner in religion, to be a partner in God?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0261par0429	Who is worshipped, Mr. Elitaş? Who is worshipped?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0259par0430	I mean, I know theology better than you do, but some of you theologicalists say it like that and interpret it differently.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0262par0431	The age of worship has passed, Mr. Elitaş. Times have changed, we are no longer in the Middle Ages.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0261par0432	Who do you worship, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0259par0433	So, Mr. Hamzacebi, you come in here from time to time, you say the verses, you try to express the facts, but it's a wrong idea to bring this matter to a religious point and express the issue of love in an exaggerated way, to express that it has something to do with religion or to associate. You can rule it out. In the dumpster of history...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0263par0435	Why is it a dump?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0259par0436	That's right, in 1935... right now, you're going to have to...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0263par0437	You've made the Republic a theocratic state, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit03spe0264par0438	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0264par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 453 from where we left off. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. On top of the entire bill, it is now on behalf of the individuals, Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem. Here you go, teacher.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0265par0013	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding the Legislators' bill number 453. I salute you all with love and respect. In our culture, people are divided into four classes of knowledge: people who know what they know, people who know what they don't know, people who don't know what they know, people who don't know what they know. I seek refuge in God from people who don't know what they don't know. The second thing: My Lord says in the Qur'an: "Are those who know equal to those who do not know?" The Lord of the heavens and the earth commands him, "Why does He not teach those who do not know in the Hereafter, before they are asked about what they do not know?" The source of the information is there, and the scholar must be there. It is said in our culture that it is not possible to do better than bad, to create a work of art from rotten things. It'll be good to teach the student well, to learn the student well, so that he can benefit this community, this nation, this Parliament. If the teacher is rotten, if the madrasa is broken, if the demand is broken, then this community will not see good, nor will this nation see good, nor will this House come to any good. Dear lawmakers, if they don't present an education worthy of our national education, no matter what 4+4s you list, no matter what pedagogical formation you give them, they will benefit neither the parents nor the state. First, we need to learn the spirit that makes us who we are, to realize that the work of this country, this state, this nation, this country, is a trust. It is the greatest disrespect to this nation and to the state of the Republic of Turkey, that our educational institutions are being sacrificed for populist, manipulative, or political purposes. I want to stress in particular: he doesn't have a building, he doesn't have a teacher, but I'm asking, what kind of college can be a ointment for us, what kind of gaps we might be able to close, or what international arena, many of which we refer to as grateful global forces? I would like to stress in particular that, first of all, the physical conditions of our universities need to be appropriate, and the need for college and college is where it needs to be. If you get up, if you open a university to the village, if you don't find a student, the teacher who has the knowledge and the savings to the peasant Ahmet Agha, Mehmet Agha, for the sake of science, for the sake of humanity, for the people, for the sake of the state, or for the contrary, he has a teacher who doesn't have a teacher to teach us what to do with science, when you build a university, will he take the science from the pillars, the threshold, or someone who comes from the sky with a zembil to teach him some of the wisdom that we call Legunni science? Dear lawmakers, it is not possible to talk about scientific life without the status of our university professors, without the ability to provide them with a college teacher's career, without saving their rights from other people's hands, and to raise the universities to the level that we desire. While the number of universities has been reduced to the level of high school, I refer it to your appreciation for the benefit of university professors, scientists, academics, if they can do a study on behalf of science. Dear lawmakers, a teacher who can't teach his students, a scientist in need of the welfare of others, has a sense of the right to think about a father who is concerned about money or livelihood, or the need to think about his own rights or children. Right now, our universities are literally lacking such an opportunity. When it comes to the success of universities, you have to look at his work. We need to be inspired by Ziya Pasha, who says, "A person is a man's work, not a man's word." Let's take 100 to 200, 200 to 400, but I'm sorry to say that at the bottom of the international college ranking -- what will we get from having a university status, from losing or cheating this nation as a whole? And I'd like to point out that the foundation universities, first of all, need to make sure that a foundation soul doesn't get hurt. If we consider that the foundations established in the past have been later transformed into tools for the protection of personal interests, it is the greatest injustice this nation and its children have been committed today by building a foundation for exploiting the children of the strange group, the poor poor poor, in order to maintain its reputation, improve its status, to satisfy the unsatisfactory souls of universities, or in order to put political pressure on their assets. Therefore, the foundation is a sacred institution for us, that this institution should not be restored to its privacy, that if a foundation university is to be built, the goal should first be the consent of God, and the level of education of the children of this nation should be raised. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I want to draw your attention to another matter: whether it's a foundation or a public university, I'd like to draw your attention to the second teaching practices of our universities. It is the greatest injustice to this nation for the education of our university professors to give their day education to residents, to have an application that they prefer to study at night to receive tuition. If the university professors insist on it, we need to look into the reasons that forced them to do it. Another thing: whether it's a foundation university or a public university, if the infrastructure isn't intact, you can't really reduce science and train those kids. What stability, what ideal, what model education are you talking about if you think that the five national education ministers are now changing during an AKP ruling period? In our history -- long-term -- when we think that statesmen are successful or unsuccessful -- you're spending from areas that are possible to use, you can't care about your government and your nation, but after that, you're cursed, and I think we need to learn from history. With this, I would like to point out that a college teacher who had no sense of country, people, religion, or state in high school would have nothing to do with this state but burden, and I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0266par0027	Thank you, Your Grace. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CHANGE IN THE COUNSEL OF HIGH SCHOOL PRODUCTIONS ADADDE 1-28/3/1983 and the title of Article 141 of Higher Education Institutions Act 2809 and the first joke of the Golden Koza University were changed in the form of the University of İpek. On the matter, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atı. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0267par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1 of the Bill of Law, which allows the establishment of some foundation universities in 453 rows and a change of the name of a university. I salute everyone who advocates the autonomy of universities and does not consider universities a business. Dear friends, what does item 1 say? It says, let's call the University of Gold Koza the University of Silk. Maybe, I mean, it could be a change of name, but I'm curious to know why. I mean, a college name is being changed, not a grocery store. I'm curious, I'm looking at the number of rows that have been sent to us, why is such a change of name necessary? I'm looking at motive, there's not a word of explanation, so the AKP government changes the name of a university, but there's no word for it, dear friends, a word. Well, that's the problem right there, so that's what the AKP values both the country's administration and the universities. I see the University of Gold Koza is founded on February 17, 2011, and our country is the first great university of arts and social sciences, which is beautiful, but it's only two years past its foundation, and we're looking at its name changed. I said, there's no motive, so I was wondering if I could find anything on the university website. And I thought I'd go to the website, the website, maybe there's a reason. And I entered, and I looked, and there was a huge blinking logo on the web page, which changed the name of the Golden Koza University to the University of Silk. I saw this. And I looked at it, and I even looked at the name of the web page. Silk. Edu. They changed it to tr. You've all got state-of-the-art cell phones, come in, look, and gold cocoza. Edu. There's tropek. Edu. He changed it to tr-tr-tr-tr-tr-tr. I mean, you, the esteemed lawmakers, are sitting here for nothing, and you and I are talking about nothing, so the university has tied it up from above and declared it. The universities, that's what's so sad about it, how to get to the Prime Minister, how to use the system instead of setting up a system, giving direction to the country, how to use it, even the system, how to get to the Prime Minister and get it done. So, the university realized that the Supreme Assembly here didn't matter, that it didn't have any function, that it talked to the Prime Minister, and he posted it on his website, and he changed his website address. This is the beginning of the end, where freedom and creativity end. Now, what does the AKP government do instead of solving this problem when universities have a lot of problems? He's busy changing colleges' names. I wish changing colleges' names would solve the colleges' problem. Let's change the names of all of them; let's change the name of ODTÜl University, where students at Middle East Technical University will no longer be beaten, nor will they eat gas. Let's make it better. Let's change the name of Dicle University if the students at Dicle University will no longer be arrested, and let's make sure that everything's okay, as long as they don't get arrested. Look, I'm going to explain the problems of the university with two examples I brought you here. Those gas-bomb capsules you see in my hand, dear friends. Two gas-bomb capsules. Look, one of them exploded, one of them hasn't exploded yet. I collected these two gas-bomb capsules myself at ODTU. What you see here is an exploding student from Mersin called Peacemaker who gets hit in the head and a brain bleeder is crippled. I went and visited him myself. Peace is the gas bomb of the AKP (AKP) who crippled Peacemaker. Which means he didn't blow up in God's name, so he somehow fell off a cop's dick. I'll leave it here, Minister, in inventory, in case the country's money goes to waste, and you can deal with another Peacemaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, this is what colleges look like. Sir? You asked for it? Anyone can have it, so I'll leave it here.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0268par0047	It won't explode, will it?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0267par0048	Sir, I swear to God, Mr. President, I don't know, if it explodes, it's still the AKP.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0269par0049	The ministers know this well; ask the AK PARTY about it; they know it well;
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0267par0050	Now, colleges don't end up changing names, guys. Do colleges talk? No. You shut up colleges, colleges are so quiet, they're so used to being silent that they can't even talk in your favor. Look, you've reached a very dangerous point, you've frightened them so much that they can't even speak in your favor. How do I know, you know: the head of the YÖK has gathered the rectors at a meeting, and he says to them: "Talk, please, talk, talk, talk, talk to the entire college's process. Look, the president of the YKK knows that the professors don't speak and forces them to speak in some way, but talk about the process of solution," he says. Embarrassing, isn't it? So, the head of the CEC says to the rectors, "Talk, don't be afraid, we're behind you." I thought you said you were lifting the DMV. Where? I thought you said something. The people who just came in here talked, what about the honorable people who kept their promise? Didn't the Prime Minister say we're going to remove it? He did. What did he do instead of pick it up? He looks like him. Good luck with that. One of Turkey's most respected universities is Istanbul Technical University, which competes with ODTÜ (ODTÜ) after ODTÜ. Look what you've done to this whole college. There was a GMO incident in Mersin, genetically modified organic rice, if you remember. You couldn't remove the stone of that rice either, but the ITÜ was appointed as a teacher from İstanbul Technical University, and the expert sent the report, and he said: "These rices are GDO." What did you do? Wait a minute, Mr. Hodja, you spoke without our permission. You said, the Chancellor immediately stepped in and stepped down. He said: "Sir, we don't think there's GMO in this." He's the handler. Does an executive man comment on anything scientific? He does it during the AKP era. Who put the Rector in charge because the AKP brought him in. You had a director do the scientific report during this period. And you'll be ashamed of it for the rest of your life. There's a lot of college graduates among you, so you guys can see what college's become. But the pressure of the AKP was so strong that there was public pressure on one side, there was AKP pressure on the other; the last thing the university sent was a two-line article, and he said: "We ask our pardon as a university in order to avoid further wearout in public." How you have made Istanbul Technical University a disgrace, as you have made Turkey a disgrace. That's what you do in college. You started to lock up anyone who couldn't do their own bidding and didn't do the AKP horning. The more I see the teachers inside, the more students inside, the more my heart aches, the more my heart aches. In a real sense, colleges lead politics. University rectors, university professors, I'll be banished. I'll be expelled. I need to continue to work without fear. The teachers don't even want to go to class because of you. You know why? Because they have no more excitement, no more love. Because if they go to classes too much, if they spend too much time with the students, they don't get performances in medical schools.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0270par0053	That's ancient history, old times. Come to this day.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0267par0054	You've brought such a pain in the ass that the professors don't even want to go to class. Where there's no medical school, they can't do anything but go to class because they're hungry, hungry. In second course, they take more classes and earn more money, and in medical schools, to perform more, to perform more in dental schools, and unfortunately, these people are dying in and out of your system. My dear friends, last but not least, I'd like to conclude my conversation with the unfortunate speech of the Mersin MP here. I don't know if Nebi Hodja is here, but it doesn't suit me. This conversation, yes, I mean, if it had been done by a person who didn't know anything about it, but it didn't suit Nebi Hodja. You came here and said something in 1936, a writer's speech, and it didn't really suit me, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0271par0057	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles, Mr. Idris Baluken,
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0272par0059	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0271par0060	Wait... I didn't see you, Hajji. You go ahead, we'll talk later. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0273par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party on the draft of the Law on Change in the Law of the Institutions of Higher Education. I salute your committee. Now, first, I'd like to call the ruling party's members of the group -- if you want to determine from here what the opposition should or should not talk about, don't do it -- I mean, talk about the law or the content of the conversation, do it please you or not -- and don't consider it your right to determine that.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0274par0065	Mr. Baluken, that's what the Civil Code says.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0273par0066	In the end, all the talks expressed here are about a law related to universities; ideas about the loss of the democratic, autonomous, scientific structure of universities today, and all of which are about the bill that you've actually brought in today. So look at the ways of conveying your own thoughts here, and let the opposition determine what the opposition should say. Dear lawmakers, now, what we call "university" is the institution in which information has been produced throughout history as an academy in both Eastern civilization and Western civilization, where free thinking is debated, and the idea is produced. Today, for a long time, this academy spirit has been such a nuisance with universities because this soul, which has been produced by scientific knowledge, has disappeared. Look, information that emerged in universities of both Eastern civilization and Western civilization thousands of years ago, scientific or philosophical ideas that were produced there, and today, in fact, continues to illuminate the way of mankind on this journey. When the university has met the power device, whenever the university has become a place where state ideology is shaped, there are disasters in societies from there. Today, when we look at Hiroshima, Nagasaki, when you actually look at the basic background, you see a sense of the university's encumbent on power. That's what's really going on in our country today. If you put state ideology ahead of scientific activity, scientific production, egalitarian thinking in universities, there will be corruption, and therefore the decay of the system as a whole begins there. Today, we have an understanding that at all universities in Turkey, it acts as a tornado trying to create individuals with a sacred sense of state, trying to train them. I'm sure there's a college environment where free thinking is produced and discussed, and I'm sure no congressman can come out here and say it freely, even if he gives a political speech. Thus, the abandonment of the education system in Turkey to a nationalist, authoritarian, state-approved understanding of the scientific think tank at universities is fundamentally the source of today's problems. Instead of a holy state, the state must prioritize individual, society, thought and science in universities. We don't think it's possible to save the university from politics or power hegemony before this formula is first passed. On the contrary, today at the university, students or academics who defend it are subjected to serious interrogations by the system because they defend it. So today, this nationalist, authoritarian, state-run system, which you created for students who want to study in their native language, want free education or want free food, is launching investigations and sending it to prisons by taking it from the university. Is it possible to develop ideas, ideas, in such an environment? Look, the first item of the bill you brought here is on a change of name. If this change of name has so much meaning in you, if it has any sensitivity, I'll make you a suggestion. Today at Tunceli University, the bronze hand of the nation's nation, which has descended to the top of society, represents the name of the city's bronze hand. If you name a university after the brass hand of the state, will it produce scientific thought? Is there anything there besides the perception of the state of a monotheistic mindset? If you're so sensitive, let's -- we're always talking about a process of confrontation -- let's change the name to "Tunç elli" to "School University," to "Seyit Reza University." If you are so sensitive to names, give up the name of the third bridge just a few days ago, the name of all the Alevi masses living in this geography, causing them to become ill-advised about it. Have a little empathy, put yourself in the shoes of an Alevi citizen. When a Alevi in Turkey goes to Istanbul, he lands at Sabiha Gökçen Airport and crosses the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, you speak of neither social peace nor free thought. If you're going to change names, we suggest that you run a process that eliminates a historical error like this. We know exactly where the problems with universities are coming from today. There is an understanding in all universities today that has been set aside by scientific merit criteria, which operates by the references of the congregations, while academic staffs are being formed at universities. Look, let's take a look at the University of Dicle -- which idea, which thought, from 2008 to 2013, people were expelled from college, people were forced to resign from the university, and who were brought with reference to which communities instead of them. Imagine a university president who has this understanding that he forbids the process of solution to a panel where a political party leader will participate in a panel event during the period we're discussing. Is there such a concept of college? A month ago in that university, the foreign minister of this country is approaching a separatist, prohibitive mentality about the process of resolving -- most of the talks there are very positive and accurate -- which allows a university chancellor to do so, to replace the leader of a political party. The scientific idea here is that there's no way to discuss free ideas here, and I think you'll all appreciate it. I've brought the matter of my own science here many times about the University of Bingol. I claim, look, take the President of the University of Bingol, replace him with the President of the AKP, and there will be no loss of qualifications in the university. I don't know if there's a loss of quality in AKP County. But, if that's the case, then a university president, like the mayor of a political party, tries to run a university, and he gives the press this kind of statement, there's no way to talk about scientific content, scientific production. Most of the academic staff he's placed in runs his own family environment, family company, and everyone knows it. But, because a student made a press release, he suspended the university for six months and ruined the student's life. We're dealing with a mentalist who's opened disciplinary investigations about 60 students, just because they're doing a press release outside the university, and the prosecutor hasn't even filed an investigation into these college students. Is it possible for so many statesmen to get out of the university where there's a chancellor who's coming up with this mentality? So we need to do serious interrogations of the core of the problems here when we're discussing them. It's the same at Ankara University. When an MP of ours goes to Ankara University, they immediately ban the panel and shut down the hall. When we look at the indictments of the investigation against the students: a student attended March 8th, hung up posters, hung up rags, complained about food fees, joined the Nevroz... who conducted disciplinary investigations about them, a chancellor's understanding, a university understanding of them. So, as a democratic, autonomous, scientific institution of the university, just like the history of Eastern civilization, as a whole, it must change the mentality of Western civilization, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0275par0077	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0276par0078	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Baluken referred to my earlier speech as saying: "Let the deputy leader of the ruling party not describe how the opposition will speak. I do not make a description, but the 66th article of the Interior Charter is clear but is not implemented. Unfortunately, it's not being implemented by the Presidential Court or political parties. If you'll allow me to read Article 66 of the Civil Code, the statement of the member of the Court can only be interrupted by the President to invite him to observe and not leave the subject. Despite the two invitations, it is possible that a non-responsive member of parliament could be banned from talking about it in the same unit, which may be offered by the President to the General Assembly. I mean, I'm trying to make that clear.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0275par0079	Roger that, Mr. Elitaş. He's in the records, too.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0276par0080	Today's talks on behalf of three political party groups are relevant, I said. But Mr. Baluken probably wasn't here at the time.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0275par0081	Yeah, well...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0277par0082	Mr. President, while I was addressing there, there was no mention of the problems at the current university that should be looked at in the background, and that the opposition parties had done this... the canary-loving association here, the tea-loving association.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0275par0083	Mr. Elitaş spoke highly of the speakers of only three parties, so he spoke highly of them, and that's true.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0277par0084	No, no.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0278par0085	Yes, sir. All three of them spoke very well on behalf of their groups.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0275par0086	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0279par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0275par0088	I'll give you my word, but on one condition. Now, Mr. Horseman once spoke of you as a horror, and for your information, it was not fitting to bring you here... an article written by someone in 1935. Now, when we close the parentheses...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0279par0089	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0275par0090	Please let me finish. I'm a former academic myself. Now, as a result, no insults, no bullying, but I'll give you two minutes of respect, but please don't get out of this frame. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0280par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. I love my brother, the Moonbeater, and we have a very good dialogue. I always ask for his help when there's a problem at Mersin State Hospital from time to time. I know your profession is a good scientist. But he talks so hard here from time to time. And when I say to him, "You've spoken to him today." He says, "My teacher, we're doing politics." Well, sometimes we do this kind of politics, and we get to the point whether we want to or not. I mean, maybe that could be indirect. I was just going to say, it's not enough time, I'm glad our Republican People's Party friends reacted. Why am I glad? That means they didn't stay in the 1935-36s, so they renovated themselves. And thank you for the compliment of Aytug Bey. Thank God for that.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0281par0105	Now, on behalf of individuals on the matter, İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0282par0107	Sir, Mr. Aslanoglu is limping because he was beaten here, he's late for that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0281par0108	Come on, Mr. Horseman!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0282par0109	Really.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0281par0110	First of all, we're members of the same district, and we love each other very much. Don't!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0283par0111	Mr. Aslanoglu wasn't beaten here, Mr. President. Mr. Aslanoglu has shielded himself to protect the wrong-doer.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0282par0112	No, I want to say that you were injured in a riot.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0281par0113	Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0284par0115	Mr. President, I'm not a university professor, and I have no scientific side, but I have to tell you what I've been through and what I've seen. Mr. Minister, Mr. SEC representative, Mr. Commissioner, I see that the street, the van is passing through, some faculty and colleges are in car mechanics. These kids can't get in here, they don't have a social event, they don't have a garden, they just go out, they stay in traffic on the street. If you allow it, you have to look after some of the universities and some of the universities, the social and psychological situations of these children. I can show you some colleges like this in Istanbul -- I don't underestimate anyone -- in the mechanics, where there's trouble with children getting in and out. For one thing, I'm making it clear. Two: Friends, listen carefully to the number: The number of students in Turkey now -- according to my information -- is 210,000. I think my Commissioner will confirm me. Mr. Elitaş, we have a student at 210,000 foundation colleges, but the number of dorms these foundation universities have built for these kids is 8,000. The foundation is a blessing, if we allow the foundation universities to think about where and how our children will stay in the future, if these are charities. So, Mr. Secretary, from now on, the foundation universities have been established for a period of five years or ten years -- students -- and I have a lot of respect for some foundation colleges. They live on the same campus, they have beautiful dorms on the same campus, they have social appliances. I really bow to the foundation universities who do this, but not even 5 percent of our foundation universities have homes in Turkey today. The students don't think about where they're staying. Mr. Secretary, you have to make an obligation. I'm a representative, you're letting the foundation colleges in right now. No, brother. Where will you put these children to bed, and where will these children stay? We allow this without thinking, and then the children become miserable. The Mortgage Board can't keep up with state universities, public universities everywhere, and they can't afford it. I'm not saying that if you don't bring this obligation to the foundation universities -- not in a certain period of time -- no matter how many students they have, where these students will stay, where they'll sleep -- here, no, that's the main no, my friends. So the goal is different, the goal is different, the goal is to make money, not to deal with any of these kids' social and psychological problems. Once again, Minister, it's my duty to say so. Three, Minister, we don't like our children. I'm not a lecturer. Foreign language education, foreign language teaching, I can't appreciate it, but I can't speak to our children about education and teaching in foreign language, starting in primary school in Turkey, and a language from the end of high school to the end of college. If we don't start, if we don't integrate our children with the world... we're slaughtering our children. Children all over the world speak two languages, three languages. We're actually slaughtering our children on this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0285par0122	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. On behalf of the individuals, the last word is for Mr. Ismet Ulma. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0286par0126	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the Law on the Law on Higher Education Institutions No. 453. I hereby salute you all with respect, love, and conversation. This bill envisions changing the name of the University of Gold Koza to the University of Ipek. Not only that, but there are also five foundation universities in Ankara, Istanbul, Adana, Kolya and Gaziantep. Dear friends, colleges must be transformed into autonomous institutions from beginning to end. You can appreciate that all political parties have commitments in their schedules that the PLO will be removed. AK PARTY is the party that stands by its promises. That's how our nation and our friends at other political parties and the world know it. Hopefully, it is incumbent on all of us to gradually remove this structure of the CEC and re-referencing high-school in Turkey with regulations in the modern world and in advanced democracies. As we walk this road, I'm sure you'll support us. My dear Nur Hodja, Zuhal Hodja told me very well about the pre-2001st period. It was a little unfair after 2001. Nur Hajji, for example, at one of the foundation universities, there could be such an extraordinary situation. It's our duty. If there really are these setbacks, dear friends, I'd hate to say that the period of February 28th and coups in our country has created more severe destructions than the destruction of Hülagû, and the Baghdad of Genghis Khan, in which all politicians are already in an alliance. Dear Hodja, even the victimization of a student or two is very important. There are no replacements for life and studentry, but in your prime -- you can appreciate -- thousands of our students, Dear Hodja, have been deprived of their rights, their future lives have been stolen, and they are truly disappointed. Dear friends, with this reputation, I cannot say that I was very happy with what I had just said. Friends, everyone will respect the other's segment, that's all, so you won't want what you don't want for yourself, that's all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0287par0132	Like in alcohol?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0286par0133	That's what we're going to take to the center when we take the axis. Dear friends, now that we're going abroad, they're not going to be looking at your bags in customs anymore, or what's in your hair, let's get their customs. They're not going to say that. Please, don't accept this as a prophecy -- and I don't believe in prophecy. In the near future -- our academists and scientists know this very well -- dear friends, they will test the information in your mind and say, "This information does a lot of work in our country, first pay the customs tax of this information, then join our country. Dear friends, on the 560th anniversary of the conquest, it is possible to remember Sultan Mehmet Mehmet the Conqueror in many ways, but since today is relevant to this issue -- the Fatih, for one thing, created his madrases. Education and education really are that important. I support foundation colleges, I support the proliferation of universities, and the reason is, dear friends, these things need to be published once in a while. Now, look, why did the foundation colleges, in our time, go up to, like, 46, and the community colleges multiply? The only reason is, friends, capital's a skittish thing. So, what couldn't he do? In our country, such investments were constantly feared because there was no confidence and no stability. As we all develop democracy together, as we develop science and freedoms, I think so, as we develop our understanding of civilization, as we increase our tolerance, as we create potential criminals, as we do not create the era, we understand each other much better. This is how we run our country, friends, the world: we want a symphony. Let there be all kinds of instruments in this symphony, but let there be instruments that when you actually listen to these instruments, let there be reeds, let there be lasso, let there be instruments, let there be all kinds of instruments, and let the chef manage it with great skill... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and friends, let's rule like this. When we say...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0288par0140	Thank you, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0286par0141	Excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0288par0142	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0286par0143	What I have to add is, I say, let's all manage together, but I mean, somebody's gonna get up and... okay, let's run with the symphony...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0288par0144	Thank you. Don't fly, you can't hear it.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0286par0145	...but let all the instruments in the symphony be drunk, and let all the people play zrunna. It's not appropriate in this country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0288par0148	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0289par0149	Sir, Mr. Minister has given us the 2001 figures of Mr. Zuhal Topcu, speaking on behalf of our group. I think the speaker may have had too much to drink, but the numbers are not 2001, but to state that they're up to date... if you promise Mrs. Zuhal about that distortion...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0290par0150	It's on the record. It's up to date.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0288par0151	Here you go. E, all the parties have taken two minutes to get back to MHP!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0291par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Ismet Hajji, I gave you all the numbers with their location, their dates, their names. So none of the work done is old. In fact, you shouldn't be biased. We specifically stressed that we should be leaning apart on youth, we gave them the work of UNESCO, we gave them the work of URAP, and we gave them the figures that the Physics Association did in 2012, and what TİK did on young people in particular is that 83 percent of young people have never experienced alcohol, especially alcohol, but what's important is that we gave them data that they've never tasted alcohol before. The removal of prejudices on young people or on the other crowd, especially by power. We, for him, think that we should all, together, take care of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0292par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0293par0160	Here you go, teacher.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0292par0163	Thank you. You've had a very elegant conversation with my name, but it has nothing to do with what I'm saying. Look, I'm being very frank here, and my goal was to put together a problem that exists and the face of the foundation universities that disturbs the entire community with very concrete figures. That's what I did. You didn't give me an answer in return, but by pretending you did, you tried to get off on something else. We'll talk about that other stuff in other environments. I'm sticking with the Internal Charter, and I think it would be more appropriate if you had a statement, an indication, a document, a statement about the fact that I had made about the foundation universities, that you would speak my name in this context, but I thank you for your elegant manner in your speech.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0294par0168	Thank you. [[Continue]] There's a motion in the matter that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 1st Article of the Law shall be removed from the draft text. Sakine Öz Fatma Nur Serter Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0295par0182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0294par0183	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0296par0184	Mrs. Sakine.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0294par0185	Mr. Oz, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, the ladies are talking about colleges, that's nice. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0297par0189	Mr. President, I have taken my word on the motion I made over the underlying bill of law. I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, the next bill envisions changing the name of one university established in 2011 and the establishment of five new universities. We, as a party, have repeatedly said that a comprehensive RD reform is more important than the establishment of a signatory university for review of the educational system at the university, but the result is obvious. Unfortunately, I'm not going to argue with you today about the need for reform of universities or the change of the name of the University of Gold Koza, which had just been established two years ago, or how the construction of sites dedicated to universities damaged environmental buildings. The problem is bigger, the problem is because of the existence of our Parliament, it's about national will. We're actually talking about this bill in vain because this law has no need for Congress; the Golden Koza University has already changed its name without waiting for the law to come out. With all due respect, this bill in front of us has proven the existence of a major problem in practice. A black stain on Parliament's history has been stolen and an arrangement that has not yet passed the House has begun. The inviolability of the national will and legislative authority represented by our parliament is clearly condemned. The bill envisions the change of the name of the Prime Minister's Hamilikart Yakini to the foundation of the Silk Group, the University of the Golden Koza. However, this university has started using its new name illegally without waiting for the completion of the law process to change its name. If he doesn't believe it, he'll remember the posters of İpek University in Ankara streets for a month. We saw the ads at İpek University in Ankara. When I looked into it, it turned out that a university like this doesn't actually exist legally. We asked the Prime Minister, "Are you aware of the lawless university?" We asked him, and he didn't say anything. However, ever since the day we brought it up, there's been a rush at the university, and silk logos and photos on their websites, and they've been replaced by the Golden Koza. They tried to edit the photos, but they didn't, they came up with funny images, and in some places Silk became a golden cocoon writer. I'm giving you examples of the ruling-corporate relationship that defied Parliament's will, which began to apply without the law:
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0298par0193	Show it to the Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0297par0194	Minister, on May 13th, the entrance to the university is written at the entrance of the Silk University, and on May 18th, suddenly changed to the Golden Koza. On May 4th, on the official website of the university, there was a flag that said "Speek University" on the back of the chancellor, and here I am showing it in newspaper clippings. When we didn't let it go, the flag was edited on the official website of the university, and it became the Golden Koza. Controversies and innovations don't stop, we just keep going around the website. At the top of the site, the Golden Koza is written at the bottom of the website, but it is officially the University of İpek.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0299par0195	Maybe they're investigating!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0297par0196	I'm going to present the file to the Minister at the end of our conversation so you can see what kind of painting they've created in our country. Now, I'm asking the AKP MPs and the government here: what do you think is the rush of what? What kind of business relationship is this that the Silk Group of your government's princes have broken the national will, our Parliament, and changed its name without the law? Members of parliament, this Parliament cannot be complementary and business followers of government-corporated connections. Science freedom and university autonomy cannot be left to the profits and politics of trade. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A university that doesn't pass the law -- and its favorite power in the business world -- can't change its name by taking refuge in the shadow of the government. The law cannot be enforced, the rule of law cannot be refuted. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0300par0203	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0301par0204	The Commission must be withdrawing the clause.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0302par0205	The contrary points to the chancellor's judgment over the Parliament.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0300par0206	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0302par0208	The Chancellor's rights over the House! That's all we had left, Mr. Secretary, so we didn't do that!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0303par0210	You mean there's custody?
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0302par0211	Custody regime!
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0304par0212	Members of parliament, there are 5 additional clauses in Article 2 of the article. The additional items will be discussed separately. Now, the first additive, the additive, will be read 150, and I will open the discussion on it. The following articles have been added to the Law 2-2809. EK MADDE 150- A foundation university was founded in Ankara by the İstanbul Forensic Sciences Education and Research Foundation, under the name Phoenix Technologies University, which has a public legal personality, in accordance with the provisions of the 2547 Higher Education Law on the foundation's higher education institutions. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the Faculty of Forensic Sciences, B) Science School C) From Engineering School, From the Institute of Sciences, d) From the Institute of Social Sciences, It happens. The first word on the matter is for the Peace and Democracy Party Group of Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0305par0227	Thank you. First of all, the Phoenix Technologies University, İstanbul Esenyurt University, the Law University in Adana, the University of Konya Foods and Agriculture and Gaziantep University in Sanko University, will provide useful services in the country with a well-equipped education, I hope. So far, as the Peace and Democracy Party, we've supported every law proposal, whether it's a university foundation or a state. We believe that wherever a school opens, wherever a university opens, there's a lot of evil, and hopefully there will be. Sure, there's trouble. In the midst of these problems -- friends have explained -- the situation of the places, the situation of the campuses, the situation of the dorms, again, the price situation -- because, because, the foundation universities -- the problems they bring are really serious problems. We have to have some rant reviews, build a foundation for those who have money, run a university, not the poor one, not the laborer, not building different parts, the government, the people who are close to power, better building them better, from public universities to private trusts, we need to see this, this is a reality. Education in one country really determines the future of that country. I went to the courthouse the other day... at Istanbul University -- I'm sorry -- it's still not acceptable for college students to engage in the 21st century. I'm calling from here to the four party groups and their leaders in Congress: let our college boys not fight, let them race ideas. Let's discuss the scientific autonomy of universities, freedom, ideas. But unfortunately, there is a system where the SEC system, brought on September 12th, collapses like a nightmare, and then, with the appointment of the chancellor, a hand-changing approach, unfortunately, practices that lead to oppressive, partisans, fans and exiles. Unfortunately, these don't give the country anything, and the events of the runt are far more dangerous. I asked the college boys: "Why did they sue an organization member?" There were Kurdish songs and music in the MP3. Even the music they were listening to was in the files as evidence. I worked for Turkey for 20 years as a member of the European Legislative Union, and we did almost all of our lectures at universities. The debates on academic, law and politics. We've never encountered a obstacle in any university, but in Turkey, unfortunately, we couldn't do that. Again, Mr. Elitaş knows that in commission reviews, one of the biggest debates in American Congress commission reviews was the discussion of university education fees. The problem with hundreds of thousands of people who were expelled from school because they couldn't pay for colleges in the states was also the problem with the world's number one economy. In our country, the problem is worse. In numbers, they explained that there were some orators here -- members of the school. Yes, how are we going to provide free education, free of charge, without money, with a real worker, an officer's child? The issue should be one of the main issues of this Assembly. So, do you guys want to split the school in the native language? Do schools divide the country? Do teachers divide the country? Do students divide the country? Do classes split? Does a pen cut? Well, there's an obsession, and I'm not going to say at some parties... but the three parties in Congress, except us, are in the paranoia of the country if they're educated in the Kurdish language. Now, I ask you: First they said, "There is no Kurdish language, I don't know what." But right next to us, go to the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Management, where you can see the state-run universities: Hawler Medical School, Duhok University, our universities - Koya University, Kurdistan Hawler University, Seladdin University, Soran University, Süleymaniye University. There are also public universities: the University of Aleppoce, the University of Germain, the University of German-Turkish University - Raparin University, Ranya University, Zaho University. If you want me to read a little bit more, there's Iraqi U.S. University, there's the University of Jahan, there's the University of Dicle, there's the University of Illum. There are studies including lawmakers who are members of this House. Lebanese has French University, Royal British University, and SABIS University was founded, Human Development University was founded, last founded at Newroz University. Now, I've counted 21 college names. These are highly trained at the level of equality. But in Turkey, where the population is most populated, Kurds don't have a single university in their native language. Why? Now, we had a discussion about this, and we said that as soon as the coup of September 12 arrived, he passed language code 2932, and his native language education banned Kurdish native language. In the 21st century, will this Parliament still take these fears, concerns, and put them in the general's hat and put them on its own head? I think this needs to be overcome. Two weeks ago, I was invited to a conference at Columbia University, and I went for a solution process. There was a beautiful and useful conference with teachers from 20 different states, from universities. Their interest in Turkey, I told them about us, their description of the Middle East, oil, security, freedom, all of this can be talked about. It's a prestigious university, where Obama reads, and when Prime Minister Erdogan first goes there, I'll go there as soon as I can. Well, we have many universities in Turkey, Bosporus, ODTÜ, Istanbul University, really important universities, what can we do to be a science-level brand? This needs to be very serious. Parliamentary-university dialogue, work, RD are extremely weak friends. In our commissions, notice that we can't see a university report ahead of us in any of the technical issues, in any of the Parliamentary studies, we can't see an RD report. Why? Maybe he'll split the country like Kurdish. Now, education in this native language divides the country. We are after the virus, friends. By Allah's permission, we will destroy it; all languages, all cultures, all identities will train in their own language, and even those who have really serious academic careers are coming out of it. Now, folks, what I'm going to say from here is that there are a lot of foreign universities in Turkey of 76 million who study English. Our official language is Turkish, common language is communication. Will your sleep be divided if Kurdish, English, teaches that university? It shouldn't be divided. We'll get used to it, fellas. Look, there was that apocalypse or something. I hope we get through this and find out that schools aren't separatists. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0306par0246	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles Mr. Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, teacher.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0307par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious lawmakers are contributing to university inflation in Turkey. With these new five foundation universities, the number of universities will rise to 175, and the number of our foundations will rise to 71. So if you call this quantitative increase, if you call each town a success in building a university, your power might be proud of it, but unfortunately the other side of the medallion is not white, it's black. I'll try to make a point. Just as there is an inversely proportional relationship between the rise of flag poles in Turkey and the growing size of flags and independence, the more independence losses there are, the more the diameter of flags are growing, especially in the AKP era, a disproportionate relationship between the number of universities in Turkey and the science level of science has begun. One of them has the function of screening the other, which is a little bit more obvious in the colleges of the foundation, so I can exclude some of the foundation universities. Article 2: All universities in Turkey are under a major political siege, whether it be a state university or a foundation university. There's a political siege that leads to the dean's appointment, to all administrative positions, starting with the appointment of presidents, under the influence of power and the community. Similar political extensions are also in effect for most of the foundation universities. This increasingly includes academic staff, these doctorates, etc., and so on, especially professorial juries, who are highly appointed by staff close to power, where members are elected. This is not the way of science. Article 3: If universities are under siege of belief systems or politics, science is also under siege. Under such a siege, no free thought, no creative mind, no science. In a college environment like this, it doesn't happen to teach him to think of one of the main functions of the university, one of its main functions. University teaches its students to think first, it teaches its thinking system. If you can't do that, you can't raise generations who can ask questions, who can question them, you've already cut them off with the 4+4+4 system. Now, therefore, there's a reverse trend, a generation of non-questioning generations, and the belt outside science is accelerating. It's severe, it's worrying. Article 4: The universities are under the pressure of a major borough. Countryization is not just about geographical position, it's about scientific competence and research capacity. Thus, the universities of large cities are largely covered, but universities in Anatolia are supposed to have the capacity to raise the level of that city, but on the contrary, they're going down to the average of that environment. They're in the gravitational zone of local forces, progeny, power-based politics, cults. This is a situation of regret, and it concerns the future of the universities in Turkey. From its establishment, there are universities that operate with this kind of mission, and there are plenty of them among the foundation universities. The level of talk that was just made about all of it here in the name of power shows that it's going very well. Article 5: The world of absolute truth, the world of religious dogmas, was dealt with centuries ago by the West, as the world of facts. The transition from Medress to university or from the skolastic thought to the real, scientific field. There's no going back to that. Turkey has been very late in this regard, very late. The main breakthrough was in the 1930s, and soon major moves were made. It says something about 35, real university reform in Turkey, real scientific development after 1933 reform. It's a shame for Turkey not to know that. Now, the process is beginning to reverse, the process is beginning to reverse during the AKP period, but no one can bring Turkey back to the level of thinking in a madrasa style. He's in charge of not wasting Turkey's precious time because that's exactly what he's doing. Article 6: Foundation universities are 41 per cent of the total number of universities today, but the number of students is 8.7 per cent. So there's a very serious waste of resources here through the foundation universities. They can't even fill their quotas, and they can't afford to pay too much and so on and so forth. But you have to question this: we transfer public resources to these universities, so they're told here, up to 45 percent. Are we overseeing this public resource? Are these sources really being used properly? We're asking for power. We're in the institution that supplies these universities from here, we're the legislature, can we control this, my dear friends? So here, along with this waste of resources, some public land, some public structures are being transferred to these universities. Sometimes it's even passed on to some kind of foundation that's out of the question. Think of the foundation of Fatih Mehmet University, where you can transfer the funds and assets of the foundation established by Fatih. Is this consistent with the foundation's purpose? Or you could start this foundation college with something completely upside down for the purpose of the foundation at the University of Bezmilalem. Or something else: Think of a prime minister and the two ministers are building a university on behalf of the Science Yayma Foundation, İstanbul Sabattin Zaim University. How could it be? Think of a country, those who have the authority to build a public university are building a foundation university through their own foundation. It's amazing, and we're in the middle of holding university in Turkey. The cocoons, the Sankos, and so on, and part of them are very close to the power, very close to it. Article 7: When you look at the distribution of foundation universities at the national level, you also see how money is the real driving force. 54 of the 71 foundation universities, including those that will be built, are in three major cities. 49 in two major cities, 37 in Istanbul. In the two cities, the number of universities in Istanbul and Ankara has exceeded public universities. 37 foundation universities in Istanbul, nine public universities, what kind of relationship is that? Where in the world is there such a thing? So that's just money, trade, or cult-commerce connections, if you want to put it in front of the stage. It's a record for Istanbul, but it's not just for money, and some of them are completely... so the capital groups are starting a university in Turkey. In Turkey, certain groups of beliefs form universities. This is an incompatible development with the concept of a university. Article 8: When there are so many universities in Turkey, there is a mindset that has excluded researchers from the university, expelled them from the university, and did not transfer them to permanent staffs, when they need so many university professors. The AKP is the head of this mentality. A bag of laws he passed in 2011 opened the road even further, and 62 researchers from Istanbul Technical University alone were thrown out. There are hundreds of examples in Turkey. So first, for once, let's protect these research people. So the whole point of this is to clear the square for his own staff, if there's any other meaning, Mr. Secretary, he'll explain. Article 9: Teaching members, not just researchers, but professors of all levels, professors, professors, are under incredible pressure to punish them, pressure to expel them from the university. I can't name these things, I don't have time, but in many places, free thinking is wanted. This can't have anything to do with college. The same is true of students. Hundreds of students are prevented from studying in prisons because they're just opening banners, asking for free education, protesting. It's an embarrassment. And now the Prime Minister says, "No private security. It's co-fighting. We're going to get the police into the university. This will actually look very good on AKP's police state, but it won't suit Turkey, just like AKP's not in Turkey. Finally, let me tell you: We are the 90th in the Human Development Index. He's showing his college level. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0308par0267	The first word for the individuals is Mr. Emrullah Yazın, the Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0309par0270	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own authority on Article 2 of Article 150 of Article 2 of the Law on the Amendment to the Law of the Office of Higher Education, number 453. I salute your high council. The Phoenix University of Technology, which was decided to be established in Ankara by the İstanbul Forensic Sciences Education and Research Foundation, is separated from several other universities with different residency areas, faculty and departments. This university, which will be held in Ankara with your votes and courtesy, is planned as a concept university. In particular, criminal technologies are designed to serve three main fields of scientific research and service that we can rank as cyber security, defense industries. In all three areas, there are not enough faculty at either the license level or at the RD level in Turkey. The first two in particular, such as Turkey, have become necessary and even necessary for a country that quickly moves from developing country to developed country. In addition to developing technology, criminal technologies have also shown major changes, the need for research in new areas and the need for qualified personnel has increased to higher levels. In particular, I.T. Crimes are important among the crimes committed today. In the near future, half of the total crimes committed will be complicit crimes. The Phoenix University of Technology aims to develop a high level of criminal expertise to cover this gap, and to do research development on the subject again at the highest level. In our country, the simplest cases go on for years due to lack of study, while people face unjust punishments for simple mistakes and lack of study. The Phoenix University of Technology, which is not in our country, will scientifically meet our country's high-level need for criminal technologies, as well as the faculty of forensic sciences that exist only at universities of the European and world. It will attract students not only from Turkey, but from all over the world. Again, security in the cyberspace has become a serious issue of the country. Since there are no adequate inspections, cyber attacks on our computers, including smart cell phones, have become a major problem. Especially in terms of national security, not just public institutions, but even private companies have serious cyber security issues. This section is aimed at raising cyber security and administrative security personnel, both in the public and in the private sector. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, we have announced that among our government's 2023 objectives, we will make Ankara (the capital of the defence industry) the base of the defence industry. In this framework, the departments at Phoenix University of Technology Engineering were prepared for defence industry, carefully selected for a university of residency, without financial concerns. Most of these departments will be located in the universities of our country, but particularly in the defence industry, RD, the departments will be specialized to conduct their activities. The software and artificial intelligence engineering section that will be established will be a complementary part of the RD activities in these areas that have never existed in our country before. The Phoenix University of Technology will be a full university of technological expertise in forensic technologies, management and IT security, criminology, software and artificial intelligence, cyber security and energy systems engineering. The Phoenix University of Technology, particularly in forensic science, forensic IT technology and forensic engineering, will contribute to the adaptation of advanced technologies in developed countries to our country. He will also make significant contributions to reducing the burden of the Forensic Medical Institution, which currently serves only judicial institutions, and to the swift conclusion of cases that cannot be settled due to lack of examination in the courts, and to almost everything, forensic scientists will be able to develop them. The Phoenix University of Technology will lead our country in Europe, the Middle East, the Far East and Africa, especially in the study of forensic science. I wish Phoenix Technologies University well for our country, our Ankara, our capital, our region and all mankind. I also wish that other universities would bring blessings to our country, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit04spe0310par0281	Thank you, Mr. Business. Mr. Aytun Çıray, MP of İzmir... I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-30sit05spe0310par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 113th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 453 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Charter for the Protection of Nature and Biodiversity Law, which is ranked in the fourth place, and with the Environmental Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Charter of the Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fishing and Water Products Commission Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since it is clear that there will be no commission after this, it is Friday (May 31st 2013) that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's motion for the motion to be taken into consideration and to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of the bill and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
