tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Pray the President is coming. [[Laughter]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Torlak (Islamic Party) who wants to talk about the 560-year anniversary of İstanbul's conquest. Congressmans, we'd better lower the noise in the House. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0002par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the 560th anniversary of Istanbul's conquest, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, you can appreciate that the progress of history and the rise of nations depend on the existence and number of high characters and mature spirituality. The presence of great men who were equipped with the values of the nation and set a target for themselves in our history has certainly been a source of honor and pride for all of us. But what these heroes have done is such a great historical event that even their reputation has been clouded by consequences. The conquest of Istanbul, which is a turning point in the glorious past of the great Turkish nation, which we are honored to be a member of today, is one of the great historical events, perhaps the most important. Sultan ll. It is this historic moment that has made Mehmet the Conqueror, the conquest of Istanbul, which has given meaning to the new geography of the Turks and the title of the conqueror of our people in the new lands to be conquered. For us, of course, the conquest of Istanbul should not just be seen as taking over a city from its rotten mentality and administration. This historic conquest also led to the expansion of the Turkish nation's horizons of domination and bringing justice to the world. This glorious conquest, the dawning of the age, is an expression of the dreams and faith of the centuries that have been passed down from generation to generation. Istanbul's conquest is the culmination of strategic growth and home-building with Ertugrul Gazi, which began centuries ago with Alparslan. Therefore, the conquest of Istanbul is the crowning of the spirit of military victory that our ancestors carried in their hearts that made Anatolian a homeland. Thus, the conquest of Istanbul is the result of thousands of years of enormous savings, experience, imaginations and governance that the great Turkish nation carried from the Middle Asian steppes. Its concept of integration led to an empire that ruled the world from a state-of-the-art entity in Anatolia, whose unity, unity, and integrity were corrupted. Our work that provides these things has not been co-chaired by the global forces of the time, and persecuted the oppressed, but has been a government that humanity has demanded, by promoting justice and justice to humanity. Our ancestors did not plan to divide the Turkish nation into 36 ethnicities. Let's be one, let's be alive, let's be big. They grew up saying, "Let's be big." They didn't negotiate with the terrorist who provided them, they didn't cooperate with them, and they didn't give in to the separatists. Those who had the courage to stand before them, in order to rule the earth, answered with a relentless struggle. If I die, I'm a martyr, I'm a veteran. They've set up three crescent banners in Byzantine constellations, saying, "They didn't provoke the differences, they didn't provoke the lower identities, they united them, they embraced them, they brought them together in Turkish identity. The secret behind the great power that conquered Istanbul is this unity, this unity, and this spirit. If it's spirit and unity, it's the right to be a nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the conquest that the Prophet Lord preached 560 years ago is, of course, a historic and spiritual moment that we will remember with great pride and pride. However, this historic day, which has been a source of joy for us, has been the beginning of centuries of hostility into Turkish and Islamic civilization, mixed with feelings of vengeance, fear and hatred. Turkey's nationalists' concerns for the country, the nation, the state and the rest of them began to resemble the first world war and after. Sadly, about five and a half centuries after the conquest, the integrity of our country and the unity of our nation, the brotherhood, the independence of our country face heavy threats. Dear MPs, Sultan Mehmete the Conqueror and our profession in the conquest, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ihsan Barutçı, who asked for the same statement. Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge to mark the 560th year of the Istanbul conquest. I hereby salute your high council. Today is the day when a nation that has opened an era 560 years ago and closed an age, ruled history, has sealed the sacred seal of the world's last stronghold of the world's oldest civilization. Today is the day when the young heir of the throne, the youngest heir to a thousand-year-old capitals crossing the sea, receives the good news of the Prophet Lord. Today is the day of the great Turkish nation's dream, which has been interpreted for hundreds of years for good. Istanbul is a world wonder, a world capital, which combines Turkish-Islam culture with the collection of cultural and civilization that contains the history of its thousands of years. On the seven peaks, the Islamic sedan is a spiritual climate echoing. It's the prayer of Akshemseddin, the scales of humanity, which are divided into the world by justice. It's the skyline of heaven that brings beauty to eternity, despite all its waste. Those who want to send us away from our hundreds of years of semantics will go their way. It is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's challenge to seven heifers. of Master Necip Fadil There is no place like Ana, a land like Istanbul; Those who cry are blessed, let alone those who laugh. Istanbul is the city where he called it. That's what the good lawmakers are for, and that's why this city is important, and that's why the conquest is important, and that's why today is important. Istanbul remains as important as the day it was conquered five hundred and sixty years later. This city is a value to the Turkish people and to the Turkish people. It is ours, ours, ours. It is the unrelenting love of this nation that closes a dark age as it conquers and opens up a new era of light and pays the price for it. It is Istanbul, which brings out an Ankara from its bosom, even when it is desired to be trampled under its feet. The Turk is no doubt Istanbul and Turkey. It is ours, Istanbul, to spite those who want to see the city of Rant, whose silhouette is broken in the hands of those who are not of age, whose historical fabric has been destroyed. For thousands of years, the conquest of the Venetians, the Genovans, the Hungarians, the Russians, the Abbasisians, the Emevis of many states, the great Turkish nation, which many nations have failed to achieve. Our conquest state was the empire, Mehmet, but this nation that closed an age and opened an era... was not held in possession of this sacred relic by plots or by some sort of foreign warped mentality... which today is considered to be the three crescent banners of the Ottomans and the symbol of our nation's unity. Unfortunately, some of the so-called Ottoman films that are being made today, and there are no three crescents in any frame of the historical museum of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. Can you think of three Ottomans without a crescent? If so, how is this the love of Ottomanism? All Istanbulers and Istanbul lovers who are aware of this distortion are sad and uncomfortable. Today, in spite of the dominant elements that have turned the world's geography into chaos and a pool of blood, we are deeply humiliated and embarrassed in the spiritual presence of our profession, which has established peace and peace on three continents with three crescents, because today we cannot speak of peace in the homeland and in the world. So today we miss and remember the conquerors and Commander-in-Chief Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, more than yesterday. At the point of the two major jihads, the ornament of the Turkish homeland, the fortune of Turkish history, the pupil of the Turkish nation, is the city in the heart of all citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I cherish the great memory of the soldiers who were given the praise of our Lord the Prophet; and I pray for the glory of the Lord, and the glory of his spirit. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Gunpowder. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Tülay Kaynarca, the Istanbul MP who asked for the same statement again. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book commitment, and I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, today is May 29th, the 560th year of Istanbul's conquest. So it's one of the greatest, brightest pages of our history today. The conquest of Istanbul on 29 May 1453 is not just a military victory. At the same time, this conquest is a very important political, social and economic victory because many balances in the world have changed by this conquest. So this conquest is a historic move, which means that the great commander Sultan Mehmet and his heroic soldiers changed the course of history with the conquest of Istanbul. After the conquest of Istanbul, a great statesman and with the tolerance and justice of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, the central administration -- through this kind of administration of tolerance and justice -- was the center of the peaceful and sisterly lives of different beliefs and cultures, and also the center of the ancient civilisations. Valuable MPs, Istanbul, where the European and European continents meet, where the alliance of civilizations is concrete, is not only the European cultural capital, it has been the world cultural capital since 1453. And if we were to put it that way, we'd be using a really accurate statement because Istanbul is the summation of Turkey. Istanbul is also the engine of our country's economic, cultural and social life. Therefore, it is our duty, each and every one of us, to protect the mission of our Istanbul. Today, Istanbul has become a center of attraction to all countries of the world with convention centers, art galleries, museums, historical and cultural fabric. At the seven peaks of Istanbul, with seven important works, we began to construct works that would make the world speak of its name, and we continue to build it. We will continue to keep Istanbul central to the world with mega projects such as the third bridge, the third airport, Canal İstanbul, Two Yakaya, Two Cities, Marmaray, and the tube through the throat. Dear MPs, today is May 29th, the 560th anniversary of Istanbul's conquest, and we have signed a special historical service on this special date. I sincerely hope that the third necklace of our foundation was laid today, and the third bridge of our Istanbul Bosphorus, our nation, our country, our state. With these thoughts, I celebrate the 560th anniversary of the conquest of our Istanbul, the glorious city of the beautiful world of Istanbul, the great commander, the architect of the conquest, Sultan Mehmet, and, of course, our beloved martyrs, who have bequeathed to us, the sheriff of the prophet Lord's good news. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0007par0050	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. I'll give you my word on the 60th article. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0008par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. How much is a TC-TUR registered aircraft purchased for Turkish Airlines during our time? I'd like to get this information from the government, but there's no one here. If it was taken, where is it and what is the purpose of the plane? What's the make and type of plane? What's the range of the plane? What is the total capacity of the aircraft in question? Is there a separate cost for the disbursement of the plane, other than the purchase price, or if it's being done, what's the cost? How much does an hour's flight cost, except insurance, maintenance, amortization costs? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you. Congressmans, Mr. Moncef Marzouki, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is now in the presence of Mr. Sadik Yakut. I welcome them on behalf of our Grand Assembly. [[Standing ovations]] Congressmans, I would like to call Mr. Marzouki to the stand on Tuesday (28/5/2013) to speak according to the decision made in the 111st Union of the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Marzouki.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0010par0065	Mr. Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, ladies, gentlemen, members of lawmakers, brothers and sisters, God bless you, peace and blessings be upon you. When I started writing this speech, I immediately came up with this idea: how deeply Turkey has influence over Tunisia. Yesterday, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of modern Turkey such as today, did not actually create a new political system in your country, but, without knowing it, has also determined the system that has dominated Tunisia so far from independence. The founder of modern Tunisia, his leader, Al Habib Burgiba, took Ataturk, as an example, as a person and as a thought. Turkey is the political force that continues its validity in Tunisia today, and this is taken as an example. In this way, Turkey has made an example of both secular and moderate Islamists. Only nations rich in experience can carry it out; they are viewed by others as examples and reputations. The Turkish influence is really big on Arab culture and history, but it also had an Arab influence on the history and culture of Turkey. As for Tunisia, the Turkish influence is great and noble. So that we can see the size of this effect in our language and in our traditions. In our national union, in our minds, in our construction, in our names, in our architectural beings, we have felt this effect for centuries. Turkey, which contains the bones of our great commander Hannibal, embraces it in Tunisia and in its size. Turkey gave us the Huseyni family and ruled the Tunis family for two and a half centuries. He raised great people in this family, and he made reforms that were still in effect. Here, a Huseyni gentleman has put an end to slavery. Thus, he did so before the United States and many other countries. At the same time, he embraced the family. As a minister and a great reformer, he made an effort to advance Tunisia and modernise it. When faced with conspiracies, he defected to Istanbul and took on the greatest role in the state of the hilaphate, where he was a sadrazam. As the invading armies moved toward Tunisia, the Tunisians headed east and waited for help from the Sultan. Three centuries ago, they asked the Sultan to protect their country. The Sultan's armies blew upon them from all sides, like a wind. That's why Turkey became a part of us. And I give you the greetings of the Tunis people from this great altar, and thanks for Turkey's help in the past centuries. I want to thank the government of Turkey and the people for what they have done and continue to do to us. [[Applause]] I also want to thank you for welcoming me to this place where democracy deepens the legitimacy and sovereignty of the Turkish people. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here with you in March 2012 at the invitation of my brother, President Abdullah Gul, who honored my country. Still, this is a virtue of the glorious December 17th revolution martyrs. This revolution opened a wide door to the Arab Spring expansion. Arab Spring today offers two options for all Arab regimes, either reform or leave the country. Our wish is that regimes choose reforms because they are peaceful and less demanding for judges and prisoners. Although this spring carries commitments, such as democracy and social progress for countries, as well as closeness to the EU, it faces threats and dangers. He who wins or triumphs will see himself facing four life-threatening problems, connected to each other. These are economic and social problems that create solid foundations for the alternative political system, to deal with the counter-revolution, to resist experience with extreme religious groups, and to cause revolution. Every problem alone is a big dilemma. But with all four of them together, it forces communities and countries to live under great pressure, which could lead to great chaos, eventually to despotism. Because societies tolerate tyranny no matter what, but can't tolerate chaos. As for Tunisia, thankfully, he is successful; he can cope with these four problems. Now, as for the first problem, the solid political system, which prevents the transformation into despotism, has been established, and as for security, as you know, Tunisian army is strong, Tunisian civil organisations are strong, these organizations are powerful, and there is terror, as you know. Terror is a handicap to us. We have the right, the mind, as you know, the Salafi groups. We also want everything to be done within the laws and frameworks. So there's also the problem of the counter-revolutionary problem. As you know, we are not seeking revenge. We close the previous pages in the process of transitioning to justice, giving them the least of the problems. Another issue, of course, is social and economic problems. As you know, the transition period is always very difficult. Without stability, there is no investment, and therefore without investment, problems increase without employment, and stability is very important to us. So, we are now in a race with the world, with time. What's important to us is to maintain political stability during this transition period and also attract investments, which we really need. Once again, I thank you for Turkey's support for this delicate period and, of course, we expect your support as much as possible so that we can stand on our feet. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk to you about relations between the two countries. The relationship between Turks and Arabs is also very deep. As you know, it's been interrupted in the last century, but it's on a very good level today. The Arabs are now very pleased with Turkey's stance, especially because of its attitude towards the Palestinian problem. As an Arab, I thank our Turkish brothers, especially our Syrian brothers, and I thank you for your support against Syrian refugees, and I know it brings a great deal of burden to the Turkish economy, but I thank you for all your help. As you know, we didn't expect it to be dangerous at the moment, of course, the revolution there, the revolution in Syria. But, of course, what's important here is that, at first, we said that this might turn into a civil war, and we warned. The religious, ethnic conflicts here will affect both the region and the region at the international level and affect Syria, affecting the Syrian people. Therefore, the Syrian issue must be ensured that the country is united. A new civilian, democratic order must be established. We say that if we're faced with an option, first of all, we support it so that the blood of the living can't be shed between justice and life. The most important thing for us here is to deal with what can be done with those who oppose the government, with the administration. Of course, these options are very important, because there are no options that I know of, because other bad options will destroy Syria. Of course, Turkey has both power and political will. In particular, he can overcome it by playing a regional, axisal role. We are also endangering our security in Tunisia. Because, as you know, we thought Syria was actually an internal matter, but it's not. So, as you know, the Syrian youth, the Tunisian youth, go to Syria and fight there. We ask our Turkish brothers to be more sensitive to the situation, to help us, the Arabs, and to help us find a political way out. Once again, I thank Turkey, its Parliament, its people, its government and its Prime Minister. You have always been there for Tunisia, and you will only receive good intentions and tolerance from us. Long live Turkey! Long live Tunisia! Long live the Turk-Tunus Brotherhood! May the mercy of God be upon you, and peace and blessings be upon you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit01spe0011par0082	Thank you, Mr. Marzouki. Members of parliament, Mr. Moncef Marzouki and the delegation with him are leaving the General Assembly in the company of Mr. Sadik Yakut, the deputy chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0011par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'll give you my word on the 60th article from where we're staying. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0012par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. When we visited the counties of our Adana province at the weekend, I actually, in particular, said that the Pos Group village routes, Kassakal, Dölekli, Kokez, Grandsofulu, Gerdibi, were about 5,000 populations and roads became hollow holes and moles, and that the citizens were having serious problems, and that I would express it in the Assembly General Assembly. Again, although the roads of Karaisan, Boztahta, Tetekli, Gildirli, Çukur, Maraş, and Çevlik were 50km away from Adana, unfortunately the journeys and the journeys of the land have made our citizens weary. We want these solved as soon as possible. Again, we have Farsak villages, where there are Feke and Kozan. There's no way to call it a road, there's no water, there's no sewer infrastructure. In many places, we have jumped. As the government takes refuge in a number of statements, such as these, I demand that these people who live in the villages at the bottom of Adana be removed immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0013par0009	Mr. Atalay...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0014par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, Kamer Young Ardahan made a claim in the district of Gölke that the governor and his mufti had forced our Yeniköy mosque to be built. We went to the village last weekend with our CHP MP, Ensar Bey. We've heard from the villagers themselves that such a claim is completely false. On the contrary, I now have a petition from the village chief and his people. In this petition, they have a request to build a mosque. Therefore, no one has made an attempt to force anyone to build a mosque. For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0015par0014	Mr. Dağoğlu...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0016par0016	Mr. President, the precious MPs are today the 560th year of the conquest of Istanbul. It's a beautiful day, but today is another beauty, a day when the foundations of the third throat bridge are laid. We live together on both of these historic days. I hope it will be a blessing to our society, to our nation, to the Republic of Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0015par0018	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0017par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. As part of the urban transformation in Tripoli, the Zagnos Valley Recovery Project, which began in 2005 with the Municipality of Tripoli and TOKI cooperation, began to collapse into a green area, and it worked beautifully. After 2010, however, road expansions were conducted by the General Directorate of Highways, while the roadside houses were nationalized and the road was expanded. On the east side of the expanded road, new blocks made by TOKI did not fit around the valley and the green area project, and it is imperative that the TOKI give up the application immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0018par0023	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0019par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. May 29th, 1453, I'm also grateful and grateful. This is a day when the great Turkish nation sends great messages to the world, and the great Turkish nation shows its heroism once again to the world, to the world, to the age, to the age, to the end. However, there have been major attacks on Iraqi Turks in Iraq, especially recently, and the Turks are in great trouble. In Kerkuk, in Tuzhurmatu, Telafer, there are huge attacks on Turkish businesses and businessmen. In this regard, the government must take urgent measures and make some talks. That's what I tried to say. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0020par0029	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0021par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Ayasofya, the symbol of Istanbul's conquest, was converted to mosque on 1 June 1453, and the first Friday prayer was performed. A mosque that remained open until 1934 was turned into a museum in 1935. In the year 560, I wish to restore the symbol of conquest to the mosque. By the way, I couldn't understand the name of the third bridge of the strait because of a ruler who had nothing to do with Istanbul, Sultan Selim. Lightning Bayezid built the Anatolian fort, and Yıldırım Bayezid built the first siege. So, in fact, I think that Yavuz is probably confused with Yıldırım, and I think that his name should be Lightning Bayezid. Thank you. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0022par0037	Mr. President, after the Izmir Metropolitan Municipality laid the foundation for the 337,000 square metre fairground on March 2nd, it witnessed an interesting obstacle that could only be seen between Turkey and the AKP. After this groundbreaking ceremony, Mr. Minister Zafer Çağlan said, "You can benefit from the incident." He said, "It is good news." But after applying to the Social Security Agency for the benefit of the city's municipality's incentives and there was no need for the CED report, the good news became a full punishment. Despite what the Ministry's Ministry's Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's legal advisor said, the CED report is not necessary. The minister signed the environmental impact assessment report by putting this area in the theme park. Now, the Ministry has opened up a way to fine the Metropolitan Municipality, which is waiting to be encouraged by the fairground area. The AKP MPs from Izmir must look at what the park is, and then you work to send projects to the minister, why don't you stop it?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0023par0038	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0024par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to address a social problem in the district of Zara, Sivas Province, thank you. Arsenic has been detected in the drinking water of 18 villages at the foot of Zara. The arsenic number adopted by the World Health Organization and the Health Ministry should be 10 micrograms per liter; 54.7 micrograms in the village of Pazardik; 31.3 in the village of Bektaş; 42 in the village of Karsians; 24.8 in Emirhan; arsenic in the village of Icupelite, 25 micron litres. Our villages here have some serious problems. So far, nothing has been done in exchange for the ongoing application of our village chiefs to Zara Sub-Maham, to the governorship of Sivas. In order to design society, we are thinking about the so-called public health. I urge the Prime Minister and the government, who brought the ban on alcohol, to take immediate action on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0025par0046	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0026par0048	Mr. President, the precious lawmakers have melted my soul and frozen it in the mold by the expression of Master Necip Fazil.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0025par0049	Thank you. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0027par0051	Mr. President, I had a request.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0025par0052	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0027par0053	Sir, I did. I suppose when you take a break, this system...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0025par0054	No, write it down, Mr. Hamzacebi. I didn't see it. I mean, I don't see it in front of me. Mr. Vural doesn't exist. Write it down, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0027par0056	Mr. President, look, if you'll excuse me, I entered the system before your break, this red light was on, sir. Then it must have gone out.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0025par0057	I have no objection. It must have been a mistake, so we opened it. Come right in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0027par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. The great Padishah Sultan Mehmet conquered Istanbul, which was the capital of two empires five hundred and sixty years ago, making it the capital of a new and great empire, the Ottoman Empire. I bow before the memory of Sultan Mehmet, the great Sultan of Istanbul, who made us our homeland. I give him our thanks. On the conquest anniversary of Istanbul, which was conquered five hundred and sixty years ago, there is a pepper gas attack by security forces against those who say, "Keep Taksim Gezi Park green, let there be no concrete." In the democracies, let the Taxi Travel Park remain green. Those who say "Taxim Travel Park" are respected, they listen to that voice, but there is no democracy in Turkey, which is carried out by pepper spray. I invite Mr. Home Secretary to the post and ask that those demonstrators be respected. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0028par0064	Thank you. Mr. Torlak... I promised to replace Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0029par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the 560th anniversary of Istanbul's conquest, I would like to point out that it is a mistake to sacrifice some imperial symbols for urban transformation. Therefore, I would like to point out that I condemn the destruction of the only structure of the Ottoman Empire in the Zombie Square and the cutting of the centuries-old trees as members of the National Movement Party of Istanbul. On this occasion, I pay my respects not for a ticket, but for an Ayasophia, where people enter and pray.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0030par0071	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Our 494-year-old motion to conduct a parliamentary survey of the situation of the media in our country, which aims to examine with all its dimensions and uncover the facts, has been submitted. I wish for your orders to be done. Yours truly. 1) Osman Oktay Sokshi [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Sinop]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] 17) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] 22) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 24) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 29) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] The situation in our country, which is described as the fourth force in democratic countries, is so severe that the situation in our country must be addressed immediately and in all its dimensions. As a matter of fact: 1) Individual studies show that only 5 out of every 100 journalists working in our media world serve under Law 212, which provides social security for journalists, while the remaining 95 remain, either without any contract with the employer or if they are a bit lucky, continue their job by contract of employment law 4857. A) You lack basic assurances, especially union rights, that will allow you to do your duty freely. B) This situation is much worse in the world of newspapers, radios and TVs, which publish locally and locally. 2) The media is a subject that needs to be looked at -- so the level of our journalism -- what measures can be taken, what measures can be taken. 3) Even though there is still no consensus on their number -- there are too many journalists in our prisons to be accepted in any democracy. At first glance, it is the heads that enforce them with laws that restrict freedom of expression. But what is the real reason and what kind of solutions will bring this to date is a matter that needs to be investigated. 4) Whether there is a tendency to condensation/result in the ownership of the media's capital structure and media organs is a subject that must always be watched carefully in order for our democracy to function in a healthy way. 5) Ads from the private sector and ads and ads from the public institution affect publishing policies based on how and how to distribute them. Because using advertising and advertising power, public opinion can be avoided. Therefore, the situation in our country needs to be investigated. 6) The distribution of written media is a subject of itself. Because the easier it is to have a pluralist press through distribution, and the easier it is to use the same power to prevent the free creation of public opinion. That's why "distribution" is a strategically important service area. The facts in such an important service area need to be investigated and known. 7) The situation of our local media is far more severe in all respects than in the widespread media. In other words, whatever negative detection can be made for the widespread media, when it comes to local media, you have to multiply them by at least three or five. Because from 1831 until now, no serious plan/politics has been implemented to identify and solve the problems of local media. That makes it necessary to reveal the facts about the local media. 8) The implementation of legislation that regulates radio and television broadcasts is a constant source of complaints. It is necessary for this arrangement and implementation to be re-examined according to the common criteria imposed by advanced democracies, and for that to be identified and produced solution proposals. 9) The TRT, which provides 95 per cent of its income from public sources, is a subject often discussed whether it uses its resources according to what is expected of it, what it should do if it does not use them. The fact that these discussions can be linked to a general consensus also requires an objective consideration and consideration of the issue. 10) Internet media is a phenomenon that affects our lives a little bit more every day. It is still a question of how Internet broadcasting is required to be taken in a democratic society, and how it will be regulated within the framework of inevitable measures. The answer to that question can only be found at the end of a serious investigation. We propose and propose that a parliamentary study be opened in accordance with the 98th and 104th Articles of our Constitution, 104th Amendment, and 105th Articles of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thousands of temporary workers are working in the public today. While public status and pay inequality are growing, public seasonal and temporary workers have many problems awaiting solutions, particularly the rights to the essence. Temporary labor has now lost its temporary quality and has been a constant condition for hundreds of thousands of temporary workers. So that, like temporary workers, factories, construction sites, land, farms, workshops, and other places, even in offices and various businesses, there have been regular workers who have been able to do the same work all year long. Article 49 of the Constitution states: "Work is everyone's rights and homework. The state takes measures to improve the life level of employees, to protect employees and unemployed people to improve their working life, to support work, to create an economic environment capable of preventing unemployment, and to ensure working peace." It is organised to ensure the rights of citizens to work. In 2006, by law, the Law on Continuous Employees or Contracted Staff Status of People at Public Work Positions 5620, dated 4/4/2007, provided that they be granted permanent employee staff status or contracted personnel status of temporary workers, who work in the public working positions and who have been granted visas in accordance with the law in 2006. However, there is also a legal right as to the Fourth Amendment of State Officers' Code (B) and under contract personnel defined in Article 4/B, under the Law of the State Officers, under the Law, under the Law of the State, under the Law, on the purpose of the Dedicating Officers' Staff Positions in Contracted Positions. However, the purpose of Law 5620 seems to have moved away from the original purpose of temporary labor. In particular for temporary employment and employment, the gaps from legislation have made this employment more preferable for institutions and institutions than for others. Although employees are subject to labour legislation provisions, it appears that temporary labor has become common, even in areas that have no interest in employment. However, the practice of contracting with Law No. 5620 has been tried to promote the idea of improving the status of temporary workers. However, it is a fact that serving in public as a contract employee is a status that is far from staffed. He is a victim of no temporary workers and no contract staff. We propose and to open a parliamentary investigation into the issues and solutions of our temporary workers based on the grounds of Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to investigate their problems and solutions, to address their shortcomings, to investigate ways to support them, to establish administrative and institutional legal regulations. [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sinop]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[İzmir]] 11) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] 20) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The increase in migration in the Amasya provinces and districts is causing the province of Amasya to shrink socially and economically every day. For these reasons, we would like to investigate the issues of the province of Amasya and propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Slap]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[Kütahya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] The province of Amasya is located in the interior of the Central Black Sea region. Tokat from the east, Tokat from the south, and Yozgat from the west, Çorum from the west, and Samsun from the north. The area of the province is 5.701 square kilometers. The province, with a total border length of 492km, has 169km with Samsun, 165km with the Tokat, 6km with Yozgat, 152km with Corrum. The capital of the province of Amasya is one of the oldest settlements in Anatolia. It is located at the intersection of land and railway roads in the Green Mill Valley, connecting the city to important centers. The population of Amassian province in 2000 was 366,200, while the population of the province in 2011 fell to 320,70. Depending on this, the number of MPs representing the province in general elections has dropped from 4 to 3. One of the places where the Turks moved into the first city life in Anatolia was Amasya, where the self-absorbed Turkish tribes settled in Amasya and around Amasya, where Ottoman princes had a protected structure, and were eligible to be raised in Amasya. Amisya, who played major roles in the course of history, was again prominent during the Salvation War, and the plans for the struggle for salvation were prepared in this city. The main economic activity area in the province is the agricultural sector and is the provision of income from this sector, as well as trade is related to the trade of these agricultural products. In addition to grains, sugar beets, vegetables and fruit are particularly agricultural products for trade. In Amasya, farmers, animal producers and tradesmen are in a very difficult situation. Like throughout the country, diesel, fertilizer, pharmaceutical prices should be reduced, and the farmer must be fully supported. Although the animal manufacturer produced it under difficult circumstances, its production was not evaluated. Animal imports must be abandoned, manufacturers must be supported. In Amasya, he closed down his little shop, his business. The laws of supermarkets must be immediately legalized in favor of the small tradesman, and these people must be free of unemployment. Promotional work for women should be done all over the province of Amasya, supported. Women need to contribute to the economy. There are a lot of problems with HES projects in Amasya. THE HES, founded on rivers, are corrupting the environment, leaving the farmer a victim. This is a very important issue that needs to be investigated with broad participation. The province of Amasya is also in a heavy earthquake belt. The North Anatolian fault line runs through here. Since there have been severe earthquakes in past history, all settlements, particularly official buildings, must be processed, and the earthquake measures must be taken immediately. Too much red tape in municipal licenses to build a building. It must be encouraged to build licensed buildings everywhere, especially in their village, which must not be allowed. We need special attention to the University of Amasya and new opportunities for students. New projects should come up that will make thousands of unemployed young people who have finished school a job. Investors don't show the necessary interest in Amasya, which is not part of high incentives and very high incentives. However, during each three periods of the AKP's rule, Amasya's province supported this political party very strongly, boosting the vote and trusting it. Therefore, he wants the problems related to the province of Amasya to be resolved immediately and the migration to be finished. It's past time to take care of Amasya, and we believe that the TBM will take over without further delay. On all these grounds, we have a motion to investigate. It has been presented to your wise men. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 29/5/2013 (now) Wednesday (now), there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Institution. It has been suggested that a parliamentary investigation of the Turkish Parliament's agenda be met on 29/5/2013 Wednesday, in an effort to investigate the fact of mass graves (10/595) during the 624 (10/595) part of the General Assembly's agenda for General Assembly and to determine solutions. The first statement in favour of the group's proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party is from Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0031par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal regarding the mass graves. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, we think it's extremely important to have some concrete, historical confrontations at this time of the birth of certain hopes in the public, where some developments are expected in the new process today in the Kurdish issue, which we have repeatedly expressed from this bench. We've said it over and over again from this stand. A 90-year-old monotheist mindset is a result of a number of people's objections to a policy of denial, denial, rejection and assimilation that has been imposed on the peoples, and the struggle that these objections have developed is a result of the government's forced, pressure suppression of resistance processes. In fact, when we took it out of Republic history, from that date until now, if these objections had been taken into account by the state; if a political solution had been prioritized on the basis of rights, law, justice, equality, then perhaps this country would not have returned to a mass grave field today, but we are now faced with aggressive operations and destruction operations from Sheikh Sait, from Zilan. From Zilan, from Dersim, until the last 30 years of conflict, from the state's democratic political solution, rights, law-based demands, from the point of consideration, rather than the security-based military operations and destruction operations of the country, I'm afraid we are facing a total disaster on every side of the country's community today. When we look at it fundamentally, we can easily express that these objections are not the same as the Kurds trying to build a hegemonia, that the Kurds are trying to gain superiority over another nation, that there is a struggle and objection to the fact that a Turk, an Arab, a Persian, whatever rights a Kurdish should be. In particular in the last 30 years, the extraordinary state practices, the perpetrator certain murders, the dramas of Kurdish youth murdered in acid pits, the dramas that their missing mothers have experienced, probably just a small fraction of the great historical atrocities that every member of parliament has known about. We all know the drama of their mothers, their missing mothers, who are still trying to reach the bones of their own child. The situation of 105-year-old Berfo Ana, who wants to die by seeing his own son's bones, is known to every member of parliament in this parliament, but a historic confrontation against it, a desire to reveal a solution has not, unfortunately, been formed in this Parliament so far. So, along with the process we're in, we think it's very important that we face a historical challenge and, along with the fact that the Assembly has established a commission for this. And that's exactly what we think is very important, because we think that the fact of mass graves in the country is the same as the mass grave reality in the Sheikh Sait period in 1925, whatever the mass grave reality in the two years of mass genocide operations in Dersim, is the same as the mass grave reality in the region over the last 30 years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, especially through persecution, death, and desecration of a funeral, it's a historical tragedy, mass grave reality. Whereas in the culture of this country, in religion, in religion, in its history, it is a reality that we all know about respect for a funeral, and the existence of a spiritual world after death, but the disregard for that respect is a result of the dramatic fact that people are buried in the history of mankind, regardless of the way they were slaughtered or the way they were buried in the way they were buried. Today we face a geographerial reality from Bingol to Dermim. From Kızıltepe to Mardin, Şırnak to Hakkari, wherever you go, wherever you dig the land, wherever the bones will gush out of it. I was there last summer at a mass grave opening in Chemispek, a mass grave study. Our friend from the Republican People's Party, Dersim MP, was there. Everywhere the ladle was hit, except where it was shown, we were faced with a complete tragic picture of human bones emerging. There are 33 mass graves waiting to be opened in Bingol, my own constituency. We're looking at a very dramatic painting with hundreds of people's bones in it. As a whole, we have knowledge that there are over 3,000 human bones in the region, a mass grave that has not been opened by 250. In fact, we have to say that all of the initiatives the state has launched on mass graves so far are a series of palliative attempts to soothe the public, in violation of international contracts. Look, there are contracts and protocols in the world that connect all countries with scientific mass burial. The Geneva Convention states that in Article 130, they will be committed to the honorable burial, honoring their graves, and marking them in a manner that can always be found. The Chemishgek and Bingol painting I'm talking about here only reveals how this Geneva Convention was clearly violated by Turkey. In 1982, Turkey, in fact, had commissioned a reporter by the United Nations Economic and Social Council to investigate the situation of this mass grave reality. But even though the Minnesota Protocol on the legal investigation of illegal and judicial executions was signed by 87 countries at the time, Turkey sought to escape again without signing this protocol. Now, the Minnesota Protocol is clearly highlighting what the procedures for opening mass graves should be. A scientific study, in a scientific study, is made very clear by scientific delegations, including sociologists, psychologists, anthropologists, to open these burial sites in line with scientific technique, to hide samples in DNA banks, and thus to further the process in a manner worthy of human dignity in the application of families. Unfortunately, in all the mass grave studies that have been done in Turkey so far, these machines and ladle are being used. Here, let alone the Minnesota Protocol, as the greatest example of disrespect for a person's funeral, unfortunately, these harsh persecution practices are being carried out in the same way today. We think it's a shame for Turkey not to face the facts about these mass graves so far, because there's a situation in Turkey's history: especially when you look at the mass grave map in which Kurds have lived, you'll find that a complete discrimination has emerged, a state mentality. Because that is the case, Turkey is afraid to face this date, to eliminate this mass grave shame. That's the brief summary of the mass grave tragedy we've been through. In this regard, especially considering the solution process we are in, it is also vital that the Assembly form a commission to conduct a study in accordance with scientific, international contracts, and that this commission launches a study that is worthy of both working at the parliamentary level and going to the field in a manner worthy of human honor, especially in terms of historical confrontation and research of facts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One thing, perhaps, we could have ended with emphasis, but I don't think we've been able to use the time properly. We think that confronting this mass grave reality is a crucial and painful issue, especially in the coming period and in terms of Turkey's democratisation. We call for all political parties to be sensitive to this issue, away from political concerns. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0032par0296	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Mr. Hamza Mountain, MP of İzmir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0033par0300	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Pledge of the Peace and Democracy Group. I salute you all. Unfortunately, some circles have been trying to create artificial problems throughout the history of the republic with meaningless and meaningless bans. The terror and Kurdish problem that we put our entire body under the stone to resolve today, which we try to soothe the tears of the mothers with all our might. The architects of this problem have victimized many with a number of illegal methods. Turkey's dark times, along with the EC PARTI power, have begun to reach a light. From the massacre of Dersim in 1938 to the unsolved crimes of the 1990s, they were all brought to light during the AK PARTY. Because we believed that it would be possible to live in peace with the greatest value given to man, to put human rights above all else, and to continue to hold them. Because we live so that the state can live. We act consciously. This understanding has allowed us to take first place in seven parts of Turkey's seven districts in every election we've had. Sadly, for many years in this country, a number of environments have considered every part of society an enemy to them in order to maintain their own reign. Thank God that no one has any sovereignty today, but only the kingdom of the people. Before us, there was a state of emergency in one third of our country, where there was no normal law, there was an extraordinary law, there was a lot of joy, there was torture, unfortunately there were unsolveds, there were seven or eight searches going from one province to another, there were controls, there were interrogations. For this reason, our first act as AK PARTY has been to remove the extraordinary state from our country's agenda. The extraordinary state, which has been extended 47 times since 1987, has been eliminated by our coming to power. Especially remember the 1990-2000 years, respected lawmakers, in some areas, in our cities, we all know what's been done in that umbrella of state of emergency -- some of us living, some of us reading. It may not be right to go past this point: I wish the friends who submitted this motion could show the courage of these operations, which are alleged to have been done by a number of them within the state or state, to bring up a number of things that have been done by the terrorist organization beyond such issues, and we all know that the unsubs in the region are not the only unsubs, the only reason is not just a conspiracy within the state or state, and the terrorist organization has a contribution here. As an EC PARTY, we view life rights as the most sacred right, the most fundamental clause of the European Convention on Human Rights, and we accept that not just as the European Convention on Human Rights, but as the motto that we get from national and spiritual feelings. At this point, we, the AK PARTY, have promised to clarify all the unsolved murders, and we're working our best at it. In the period of the EC PARTY, the past period of unsubstantiated events began to be illuminated, and at this time there were no unsolved cases. There's only one unsub, which is the murder of Hablemitoglu, a month after AK PARTI came to power.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0034par0306	Ceylan Önkol, Uður Kaymaz... you don't live in this country, you live in another world.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0033par0307	Because the main purpose of these murders by gangs is to destroy the peace and security environment, to gain political credit by taking advantage of chaos and conflict. In particular, with criminal charges filed against the prosecutor in recent years, search has been launched in many areas, cases have been opened, and judicial proceedings are under way. At this point, some arrests are being made and the trial is under way. Since the Constitution shall not be able to discuss the issues in the Parliament and the Parliament shall not be able to investigate them, it must be left to the stage of judgment until these proceedings are concluded, in our opinion. At the same time, because of some of the laws on the agenda, because of the intensity of our agenda, I say I will vote against this motion of research, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0035par0310	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0036par0311	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0035par0312	Peace and Democracy...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0036par0313	During his speech, Mr. Orator stated that we were only exposing the practices of the state here, so we were speaking to mislead the public.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0035par0314	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0036par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I, from here, of course, don't want to go into one-on-one polymix. I mean, it's an important issue, and I'm sure we've made it clear that within the AK PARTY Group, someone who is uncomfortable with the situation, someone who has at least faith in the other world, has to be sensitive about something that the solution has to be developed. Now, Mr. orator, he said something like: We're only interested in what one state is doing, we're not saying what the PKK is doing, we're saying something like that. We've said on this platform many times before, and if you've been following the press, there have been statements made by PKK officials, senior officials of the CENTROOM on this subject for the past ten days: ▪ Let a study run a historical confrontation process, let a study be done about it, we are ready to face all our mistakes, and we are prepared to reveal our own archives for this. There is an understanding. There's resistance here by the state. If I have done wrong, I am prepared to answer for this error, to do all that the commission has to say for it. So here, where there's resistance, there's a need for a solution to develop. Now, the removal of the extraordinary state, the government facing the unsolved... so, all of this is good, but after you removed the extraordinary state, did you face the practices of the extraordinary state? We're talking about a certain murder of 17,000 perpetrators, 17,000 civilians, people who are part of the conflict, people who were taken from their homes in the middle of the night and slaughtered in acid pits. The government officials who spoke from this stand at the time said that the founder and the one who took the bullet were honorable. Now, can a government that understands to keep a man alive be able to have such a thing? Let's investigate all applications of the state-of-the-art. The unsolved murders are over. You say that, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the middle of the street, without a trial, human murders continue.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0037par0323	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0036par0324	Ceylan Önkol, Uður Kaymaz, Aydın Erdem, Sherzan Kurt, hundreds of people who we can't count for hours around here have been killed in the streets without a trial. So, instead of criticizing each other, making it a matter of polemics, this is a matter of solutions, and I would like to ask you again to approach from the perspective of solutions. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0037par0329	In favor of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Hüseyin Aygün of the Tunceli MP. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0038par0332	Thank you very much. Today, basically, the foundation of the third bridge has been restored to some historical events. I was pleased to hear that even Yusuf Halaçoglu has objected to the name of Sultan Selim, to a bridge that will unite Europe and Anatolia, and to a bridge that will unite Asia, and to the name of Sultan Selim. This is the case: wherever you find it, without delay, and anywhere else, dig up the root of whoever and wherever it may be from the Redhead team, from wherever it may be. It is a king who has given the decree in 1512, Yavuz Sultan Selim. Moreover, according to the Law of the Conqueror of 1839, he had his brothers killed, all but one queens, as a successor of an empire who considered it legitimate to slaughter his brothers for the sake of order, and as a great sultan who inherited caliph from the Mamlites. Now, when I read today that Mr. Gul and Erdogan have named the third bridge after the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge, I remembered these historical memories. Let's not create a constant conflict here with Alevi-Sunni. Our brothers and sisters have been provoked, using a sect. When your friends who have been critically critical of the AKP's ranks in particular, I realized that they were not sincere in the face of this landscape. Because Yavuz Sultan Selim is a great padishah, who defeated the Mamlûm, who destroyed the Shah Ismail (Muslims), and who has made the alliance of Islam, and then he may be a king based on Europe, but remember that before the Iranian expedition, the funeral of 45,000 people who were marked with letters and letters is standing in front of us without question. Let's not forget the decrees that were sent to the women of Yavuz Sultan Selim, who entered Turkish with the words "struggle the letters." Therefore, giving the name Yavuz Sultan Selim a great bridge is simply to dynamite Alevi, Sunni brotherhood, solidarity in Turkey. In a society of 15-20 million people, we're going to discriminate as openly and as far as we can from now on, we're going to put you through the worst things in history, no matter what your intentions and wills are. Dear MPs, the speaker before me, İzmir MP, also a member of the Human Rights Commission, used half his ten-minute term and said: "There have been no unsolved murders in our time." I'm just telling you three unsolved murders from Tucson: Imam Boztaş in 2004, Hasan Karataş in 2005, and Hasan Sheikh in 2007. The perpetrators are still on the shelves as an unsolved murder case. These are the developments that indicate that the information the Hati gave was wrong only in the terms of the tunceli.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0039par0336	He lives in the afterlife, not here.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0038par0337	Also, I don't think I need to remind you of the example of Ceylan Forearm in the southeast, as one of the countless murders. During our time, darkness became bright. He said, "I am also a member of the Human Rights Commission," but there are 1,269 people in Turkey who are now standing in mass graves at 113 locations, including Hezbollah's grave houses. So far, 25 mass graves have been opened, and only 1 percent of these 1,269 people have been removed. Most of them are militants shot in conflict, but even though we think there were terrorists shot in the conflict, they're probably not going to deny that they have the right to be buried in accordance with the traditions set by their parents. The AKP has nothing to do with any mass graves so far, with the opening of these graves, the identification of the dead in these graves, the way the graves were investigated, the way they happened, whether it was a murder, or who its perpetrators might have been. Therefore, information from my friend, who is a member of the Human Rights Commission, can also be judged as a very severe mistake -- the mildest expression. A single tomb was opened in Turkey according to international standards; on 12 August 13 August 2011, about two years ago, in Çemishyzek. Here a hero named Hosni Yildiz departed from Zara district of Sivas. He came, tented, put his body to death for sixty-two days. At that time, a mass burial of political will took place on August 12th and 13th, considering the impact on the government's image by the ministers, the ministers, who died with his mother in the fast of death. I was there as Congresswoman, and I've been supporting that resistance all along. Because the right to a person's brother's funeral is one of the most human rights, and in fact, our law responds to that. However, he gained this resistance by striking hunger for sixty-two days, coming to the border of death, and the opening of the mass grave, which began with the resistance of one person there -- August 13 of 2011 -- resulted in the discovery of 15 unidentified dead. One man resisted, but 15 bodies were found. Ali Yildiz, who was the brother of the man who resisted and had his body put to death for his sake, was happily identified by forensic reports and was buried in the family cemetery in Gazi neighborhood, and there were no investigations of the other 14 unidentified dead, not even who they were. The friend who gave this resistance to Turkey is not only an insurgent, but also a writer who reminds Turkey of the needs of international law. Today we remember the fact of the mass grave with his resistance and his creations; his name is Husni Yildiz, who lives in Istanbul. I also brought his book, to commemorate his great contribution to this subject and to introduce his work to our nation. A book titled "The Diary of the First Mass Grave in the World with Resistance" was dedicated to his brother, whose name came to you, Ali. He resisted and found his brother in a mass grave. So, this little story in Chemisgezek, which shows how much we're dealing with, it's so painful... that I think we're dealing with a huge social injury that will affect the people of a town on a medium scale in Anatolia... with relatives, their wives, their mothers, their fathers, their brothers, their comrades, their community members, their supporters. We're not just going to get those dead people out of there, but we're going to remind their relatives that they're human beings, that their relatives should be valued as human beings. More importantly, we're going to do something very conscientious: an unknown dead man underground, perhaps a famous journalist, a politician thrown into a murdered acid well. Since we are constantly facing the darkness of the 1990s, lighting the darkness of that time, and defending this mission, the government's claim is that we can take immediate action on this very simple matter. What I saw was that the Human Rights Association published a report in 2011, and then we did some work on that report in light of the cheddar experience. What I see is this: this is the period when 1,269 people were buried in mass graves between 1993 and 1996, when Cirler was in charge and the executions were concentrated without judgment. Again, over the last 20 years, 30 years of heavy human rights violations have increased the number of people in mass graves by 37 percent in practice these three years. Therefore, I believe that the enlightenment of that period must be dealt with not only with Mehmet Agar. But with all political, military, police officials of the period. Today, if the government wants to demonstrate its sincerity, we will never know if it can be applied, and in the coming days, we will understand the practice of the judiciary, and the statute of limitations must be lifted as a crime against humanity, but no action has been taken. On the other hand, we must not wait for the new Hüsni Yildüz to remove the people from the mass grave, but we must take a systematic approach to this, not to become a collective or federal complaint. And I find it correct to establish a research commission on the truth about mass graves. In fact, such a special thing can be established in the research commission, and our party has brought it to the agenda of the TBMM many times, the motions have been made, rejected by the government's votes all the time. On the other hand, an independent commission should be established on the matter. It's unacceptable to go and open a mass grave only at the pleasure of the state's attorney or at the mercy of the Minister of Justice. In this regard, it is imperative that especially forensic experts with experience in major massacres, bar, forensic organisations, scientists, Croatia, Serbia, again, the victim's relatives should be put on this committee; an independent commission, and a commission to investigate facts should be established in the TBMM. That's the summation of my views. I'd like to report that I voted in favor of the proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0040par0346	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Kastamonon MP Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen against the Peace and Democracy Party proposal.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0041par0349	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a pledge against the BDP group proposal, and I salute you. Dear friends, both the unknown and the mass graves -- we agree, we think the same -- are crimes of humanity. Seriously, if Turkey has these things, it has to face them. What we are against is not to investigate them, but to investigate them, but to establish a parliamentary research commission in the process. Otherwise, we're not against going over these things, but at the moment, there are legal procedures involving the unsolveds and mass graves.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0042par0351	It's gonna be a statute of limitations, a statute of limitations. Murders that haven't been solved in 20 years! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0041par0352	Legal processes related to Turkey's dark affairs are already being carried out with determination and courage.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0042par0353	Mashallah! Bravo!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0041par0354	That's why I say we're against the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0043par0356	Can you give me a date on the right time?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0044par0357	Thank you, Mr. Gülşen. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0043par0359	Enough...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0044par0360	That was to be asked first, as it was read. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (29/5/2013), I propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. As part of Law 3269, number 10/149, the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been under way of implementing specialising in the Turkish Armed Forces since 1986. The problems that have arisen as a result of expert erstwhile practice, and the problems of the Turkish Armed Forces officer, the petty officer, the petty officer, the staff officer we have given 4995 to the presidency of TBM on 16 May 2012, as well as the issues of the rights and resources of the temporary village rangers and other rights of their rights and resources, have been proposed on Wednesday (February 12th 2013), as part of the fight against terrors that we have given to the president of the TBMM, with the leading and high-intensity terror threat to the areas that we have submitted to. In favour of the National Party of Action Group's proposal, the first word for Mr Süleyman Nevzat MP is in favour of Mr. Nevzat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0045par0375	Mr. President, I have been promised to bring up the parliamentary inquiry motion given by the National Movement Party on the working conditions, problems, and the solution to these problems. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, Mr. Süleyman Demirel Sir, our 9th President, the honorable wives of our Lord, Nazmiye Hanım, who are on their way to eternity, ask for God's mercy once again, my dear fellow citizens, especially Mr. Demirel's family, and my condolences to our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, especially when we look at the recent developments in our borders and the risks that these developments have brought out, we can say that we are facing a highly unsuccessful AKP foreign policy. It's a circle of diplomacy that's getting narrower and narrower. Turkey appears to have become an increasingly lonely country in its region as a result of clumsy foreign policy moves, and has become an enemy-fed country by its neighbours. Our state, ruled by the AKP, unfortunately, is considered to be an untrustworthy, unstable Trojan horse, which Western imperialism put into Muslim geography. As of today, we need an army more powerful than ever, a strong army with a deterrent, effective, solid union. The 11-year period of the AKP will be remembered as the years in the future when our armed forces were planned to be battered and to be brought into the presence of unrest among their members. In view of rematching the republic's philosophy, our army, the architects of the republic, has been transformed into the subject of politics by the AKP since 2002, beaten with conscious moves, as a result, a large portion of the command level has been purged. All balances have been turned upside down, and the seeds of hypocrisy have been planted between them. Our nation's eyes, its foundations, members of our army at all levels have very serious problems and expectations. Resignations from the army have gained speed. Minister of National Defence Mr. Yilmaz has announced that the number of petty officers who have resigned from the Turkish Armed Forces in the past three years has been 13.751, and the number of experts who have not been renewed in their contract is 4,967. Dear lawmakers, the problems of all members of our armed forces are piled up like a mountain and are waiting to be resolved as soon as possible. That's the problem with our seniors, who are employed in a special status to fight terrorism. The veterans who are sometimes confused with the veterans class have no pensions, so they are concerned about the future. It is not a solution for those who have left their job before or who have been terminated before the law, even though they were allowed to retire working in other public duties after the age of 45, which is the upper limit of being able to work as an expert in the recent arrangement. Specialists, like other members of the Turkish Armed Forces, want to retire in their uniforms with great honor. These brothers have no additional indicators, or rather, the only profession group without additional indicators. There's no difference between a 25-year-old expert and a year-long salary. The lack of additional indicators results in a very low pension, even if they are out there finishing their retirement. They don't have the luxury of getting sick, and when the attendings suffer from a very serious illness -- that is, in a stressful environment -- when they receive more than three months of reports, their contracts are immediately annulled and they are officially thrown out on the street with their families. There is no such cruel practice in our public staff regime as well as in violation of human rights. They're face-to-face with arbitrary practices, specialists. They're subject to disciplinary action, even in their smallest offenses. Once they find a bear within the year, they'll be forced to export again. They don't have the right to appeal to the judiciary, it's a total system of slavery, they have all the challenges, but they don't get improvements in financial and social rights. There's a song that tells you how to love me, how to shoot me. That's what it's like. Lojman's rights are funny, as well as howl, with civil servants in the Turkish Armed Forces, there is a five per cent quota. Aren't these housing houses built for low-payers? Either increase their salary or at least pay rent for their housing, which they don't have. Even the military homes have no use for their families. We can hear that they've been subjected to some degrading treatments at the army hall gates. Won't there be any changes in their rights, social rights, in twenty-six years? Have fear of God. Even the world has changed 26 times. With all due respect, the Turkish Armed Forces have no law, no mercy. The safe future, the friendship of arms, the honor of the profession, I'm afraid they've all failed. Dear MPs, everyone knows these problems, everyone sees them, but I don't think they see a general general general, the Secretary of State and the commanders. Although, they haven't seen any of the terrorists who have gunmates and Mehmetchik's blood on their hands going out of bounds recently, and the drones don't see what's going on, but remember, if someone turns their backs on these scandals, the whole nation sees what's going on and records. I would like to address the Chief of Staff, the Minister of Defense and the other commanders who have decided on behalf of the armed forces: Do not close your eyes to these problems facing your mensups. You won't take it on the agenda, but who's going to talk about it? As the National Movement Party, bring your solution proposals, and we'll support them to the end. Like the PKK and its leftovers, let us not allow those who eat the bread of this country and who are in the same place as the evil focal points, some who are oblivious, even traitors, to appear in the form of rights, and seek to spread hypocrisy against the army through these problems, and let us set up a reconstruction that first embraces everyone, starting with special sergeants, civil officers, expert police officers, and petty officers. For that, I would like to address your esteemed deputies: Let us consider how we will contribute to our army, which is the apple of the eye of the nation. Give the National Movement Party's motion an opportunity and come and support this motion of investigation. It's not the first time the National Movement Party has proposed. You turned your back on our motions to investigate Congress before, and you stood by. Don't you want an army that's as peaceful as it is, as strong as it is, that's taking unity, social solidarity to a higher level? Dear lawmakers have pointed out the events at the stadium and have found private security agencies at fault in preventing these incidents and have mentioned the recent construction within the police force, Prime Minister. That's what he does, I'm the successes, the mistakes are the others. So is this. Police-like protection and security units have been established within the police force, saying thousands of law enforcement personnel will be taken, they will be trained, equipped, prepared; waste of time and unnecessary resources. We've proposed a law as a nationalist movement party today. You know, we've got thousands of people who've been deposed when they're seniors for different reasons, and they're coming to you, and they're coming to us, and they're justifiably asking for a job to provide child support for these young people. Besides, there's no need to look for a source, there's no need to waste time. Wouldn't it be better to employ these trained staff here who've been through armed training, social events, even in the fight against terrorism? So a bleeding wound wouldn't be cured? In our proposal of this law, we propose that we assign these protection and security units to those who are still serving as private security officers and to those who have been discharged from their post for any reason other than to be involved in the crime. We kill two birds with one stone, we fill the security gap you've detected with experienced personnel, and we also provide a solution to bleeding professional unemployment. Let's put this offer and other issues on the table at the research commission we're going to set up. Let's not abandon these brothers and sisters who've worked so hard for the country, and let's look for solutions to their problems together. I say we expect you to support the National Movement Party's research motion, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0046par0385	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0047par0389	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the motion by the National Movement Party to conduct a parliamentary investigation. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Starting with my words, I wish that the conquest of Istanbul, which we celebrate with great enthusiasm, should be a blessing, and that the great commander, Sultan Mehmet Khan, remember with gratitude and express my eternal mercy and gratitude to our ancestors, who have made us proud of our history. On 29 May 2015, I wish that Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, whose foundation was laid, would be completed, would also be a blessing to our Istanbul, our Turkey, and the whole world. Honourable MPs, Specialist Private Law 3269, have been launched as of 1986, as of the beginning of the practice of military specialists in the Turkish Armed Forces. The basic and procedures for providing and providing services, duty and rights, obligations, transfer to the petty officer's class are also organised to meet the technical and critical staff needs of the Turkish Armed Forces. Under this law, specialist sergeants are consisting of at least high school or equivalent high school graduates or staff sergeants who have graduated from at least elementary school and who have completed their service as sergeants, while the corporals are from those who have graduated from elementary school or equal school, as well as specialist sergeants who have been employed according to Law Code Number 3269. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the important thing about the problems of our experts is that our army becomes professional. This is even more important than the opening of a parliamentary investigation. An important step has already been taken in the late 1980s by the expert chief of staff on the professionalisation of the Turkish Armed Forces. This model-sized practice is only one foot in professionalization. The second leg of the application will create a professional private application that can be launched on the basis of the restructuring of the mandatory military system. Dear lawmakers, as you know, many European countries are trying to move to the professional army because of the change in threat or risk perception after the Cold War period. In England, the transfer of to the professional army was 1960 and in the United States, 1973. In some countries with professional armies, there are problems with the supply of volunteers. These problems appear to have increased in times of crisis and war. The United States of America has been known to experience this problem intensely, especially recently. There are also structures in Germany, Mexico, and some other developed countries that can be called the military model of karma, consisting of mandatory soldiers and higher-paying contractors. The threat-risc assessment implementing the mandatory military model is legalized in low Western countries and the system considers people's preferences. Although the threat assessment, such as Israel, is the choice of public service in some countries, the appropriate ones, including women, are primarily elected for military service. In order to increase the demand for professional military service, the military model must have a charm. For this, reviews and evaluations continue. Although there's been talk about the possibility of suspending the chartered private model due to the shortage of recent applications, I'm actually considering that we need at least 20 years to get to the full professional army. In the contract model, the age limit should be between 18 and 23; candidates must have at least six months of upper secondary education; personal vehicles for coming-to-work; fuel support for personal vehicles; health control and physical testing once a year; alcohol, smoking; no bad habits. Studies on the problems of our specialists are being followed by our Chief of Staff and by our Ministry of National Defense, and the work at the point of resolution continues. The priority for the Turkish Armed Forces to become professional is to make a political decision. It is also considered to be dependent on the illegitimate domestic patient to take on a level that can carry this burden. According to the transition plan, established after the political decision, staff supplies and educational activities may begin, and I would like to extend my regards to all of you, saying that it would be more appropriate to discuss the proposals of the law on our agenda as a priority. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0048par0400	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Smyrna MP Mustafa Moroglu. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0049par0404	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in favour of a motion to investigate the problems of contracting specialists. I salute you all. And of course, I would like to reiterate that we are going to support this research motion, because we, the Republican People's Party Group, have never said no to the investigation of any problems, persecution or injustice, and we will not say no after today. In the two years I've served, I've observed that this attitude is unique to our fellow lawmakers in the AKP ranks, and I've never understood why they reject these research proposals. If he has something to say to our citizens, why they refused these research proposals, why they said no, if he has something to say to our citizens, we have other laws, we have other important things to do, and I demand that they tell us for another reason other than that. Because the Prime Minister recently said, "Will you go to a referendum on the Constitution?" Of course, if other opposition parties don't lock up the party buildings, we can reach the number that will lead to the referendum. I couldn't help but wonder if your friends were just getting their fingers in here and wondering if their minds were locked in the party buildings. Because there's no subject that needs to be investigated until now. Yes, let's look into it. They didn't answer until when? Until the threat of what we want to be investigated is revealed and the murders are committed. And the best example of that is that we've submitted research motions to prevent violence against healthcare workers, and they've been rejected. When was it accepted? When a doctor friend of ours was murdered in Antwerp. Before I get to him, I'm going to do this one more time, and I'm going to take our friends' minds out of the party buildings, and I'm going to ask them to give these research proposals, or rather, all of their research proposals, especially to the immediate problems of their solutions, yes, on behalf of all our citizens. For example, we've made motions for suicides related to the biggest problems of specialists, so we thought we'd look into them together, and it was said no. And then, well, you're saying no to the research proposals, so let's make a question proposal, maybe there's something we don't know, and we've made a suggestion that they'll tell us about it. Because there have been more suicides in the army in the last ten years than in the number of soldiers we've lost in the fight against terrorism. There's a problem here, Mr. Minister, the power; we wanted to investigate them and take measures to solve these problems, and you said no. So, when we made a question as to why it happened, we got the answer: "Suicide is equal to the suicides in the community. There is also no special problem here. We have received the answer. You're all here to witness it, and our citizens are watching it on TV. From where you're standing here, from where you're looking at it, we really need to be sad, we need to be sad together, no matter how different the party is, because the Minister has admitted that there's something wrong with the community. I wonder if these suicides, suicides in society, as the mother of all evils, are there more of those you've easily accused of drinking alcohol in the last few days, or are there more suicides because they're drinking alcohol, or are there more suicides because they're taking away their own farms and cows for $7,000, or are there more suicides because they've finished college and couldn't find a job? We could've looked into it and found out, and you didn't do that. Besides, I don't mind saying that you lied to a minister by giving us false information, but if the Minister had asked us that suicides in society and the suicides in the military were not equal, or if he had done the slightest research, he would have learned that the suicides in the army were 2.5 times the number of suicides in society. I mean, we're in a situation where my dear friends, you're never trying to bring out social problems, and you're not supporting our efforts or the efforts of opposition parties, just like our friends in the MHP group had just suggested. My beloved citizen Hamza Mountain has come out, where there is not a single unsolved murder except one Hablemitoglu. Then he knows something. Let him come, there is something that we all know, and the world knows, but 34 people in Roboski have been massacred. I suppose he knows that; let him come here and explain that the perpetrator is not unknown, but the perpetrator is this. Let him say this. Or maybe a lot of other friends from that period don't know the pattern, but he knows it. So instead of misleading each other in the name of politics -- in the name of politics -- in the name of politics -- and making polemics out of each other on the stand, these are important issues that need to be investigated. Let's all start by saying, "Let's start looking together, let's take the necessary precautions." As a member of the National Defence Commission, we have expressed a certain demand for corrections in commissions, not only of experts, but of special police officers, petty officers, and we have always been rejected by ruling party friends, AKP-like friends. Why? As an example of inequality in every field, let's look into it and correct it together, if there's a problem with structural problems, as our Smurf U.N. Congressman just said. Know that there are things that we need to know, that there are more than 50 percent voters who vote for opposition parties, and if these studies are working, let's know together, so it's not an obstacle to the adoption of the research motion. Let's all work together, but we'll all be able to solve these problems soon... yes, we'll try to overcome these structural problems, but we can't keep quiet about the problems of the veterans today... and the problems of the veterans. For example, from many places, we have been called by veteran gendarmes, who say: "The army is no longer being taken into the army." Even in prisons, we have to wait for the prison with seven people. We can't get security guards and patrols out of the villages. I guess we can look into it with a research proposal, figure it out, figure out the solution to the problem. Or as your other friends have pointed out, are you in the midst of another army plan, which you call "professional," instead of all these Turkish Armed Forces or law enforcement forces? That's what our congressman friends should think when they refuse a question, a motion. In the future, did we not raise our hand to that too? Or did we raise our hand to that too? My dear friends, do not have to sign or raise your hand. When we warn you, we can prevent these suicides, we can solve the problems of specialists, even if we warn you that suicides will increase if we don't solve them, then you shouldn't be angry when we remind you that there's something wrong with these suicides. Also, the friends at the petition board know. Specialist gendarmes and experts have filed a petition to the Proclamation Commission; both of them, the veterans and the senior officers, both of whom have promised us in election time. I know all of your problems, I know your salaries are low, and I know that when you resign two years later, you have to be unable to find a job, and I know that you have the responsibility of the Turkish Armed Forces, but you don't have the rights. I will solve these things after the 2011 elections. He promised in the squares, but he didn't. Now, there's a Prime Minister who stood up and promised to solve all these problems two years ago, but he hasn't solved them for two years, and there are MPs from a ruling party who have always refused our research proposals. Now, as our President-General says, there's only one thing left: you're either going to solve these problems, or we're not always going to be the Prime Minister of Lies. We're going to keep calling them liars. Yours truly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0050par0416	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0051par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. A few moments ago, our AKP spokesman, our MP, gave a speech regarding a motion by the National Movement Party. In this talk, he described the history of professionalism and professionalization in the military, saying it would take at least 20 years for professionalism. There is a law that has been enforced for twenty-six years. Stop being professional, we're dealing with a system that's getting more and more empty. So what I'm getting out of this is that the AKP's mentality is clearly not twenty, but two hundred and twenty years can't go a length of barley. The same goes for civil servants, veteran gendarmes, petty officers and officers. I wanted this to be known by our holy nation and by our coven. I felt the need for such an explanation. I thank you for your word, and salute the assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0052par0425	Mr. Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0053par0428	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the National Movement Party motion. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, since June 2011, the National Movement Party has three proposals, in fact 20/10/2011, 16/05/2012, and finally 12/02/2013. We've discussed these motions here, the National Movement Party has spoken, we've talked, and in the end, we voted, rejected. Of course, that doesn't mean that, in fact, Congress never sets up a research commission. Today morning, we did a study with our other friends at the research commission on illegal wiretaps. There's a lot of research commission work going on last year. So, in fact, from time to time, there are research commissions that all parties contribute. But, as you can appreciate, as much as we respect this research commission, the government and the government have a program. Therefore, as we act within the framework of this program, we need to allow research commissions to work. We, the Justice and Development Party, respect the motion of the nationalist Movement Party for this matter. However, in order for the work of the Oil Law that began yesterday to continue and to be completed quickly, I would respectfully welcome your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0054par0433	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0055par0434	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit02spe0054par0435	I'll call. I submit to your votes the National Party of Action Group, those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0054par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: 29.5.2013 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (January 29,2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Council. İstanbul MP Binnaz Eyük and 58 MPs gave the Turkish Parliament on 14.2,2013 to determine "the measures which must be taken by investigating the issues of lesbian, gay, bisexual individuals" (731 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday (April 29,5,2013), and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to İstanbul MP Binnaz Ürtur. Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0056par0017	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, before I begin speaking, I'd like to thank our Deputy Director Akif Hamzacebi, because of the 800-odd motion that led to the landing of this motion today. Thank you very much, Mr. Akif. Now, what I'm going to talk about here is something that a lot of people here and maybe a lot of people who are listening to us, and a lot of people who are listening to Parliament TV, they don't want to hear it, understand it, admit it. I'm going to talk about LGBT individuals here today. I suggested that a research commission be set up in the House regarding the problems of these individuals. When I say LGBT individuals, I mean individuals with different sexual identity and sexual orientation, lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders. Now, while you're listening to me, I'd like you to close your eyes for a moment and empathize. To think that you are one of these individuals, or that you are their mother, their father, their brother, their relative, that you should edit it, and that these individuals who are faced with peer pressure and violence, if you were to experience it in your own life, how hell your life would have turned into. It is my request that you rethink the teachings of Islam, not to replace people with others, to be merciful to God's creation, and not to be a measure of violence and hatred against LGBT individuals in this country, which is our law to protect even animal rights, which is what I'm asking you to do in a country like this. In short, I'd like to address your conscience, and I hope you'll accept this motion by listening to the voice of your conscience. First, I'd like to tell you a story about an NGO that LGBT members set up by their parents. A few mothers passed by here to see me and tell the House what they've been through. I'll tell you the story of one of them. In fact, my friend and colleague Can Can Candan from Boğaziçi University filmed these stories as a documentary. In fact, this documentary was shown in a theater near the Assembly in case you were interested and left, but unfortunately, the attention was low that day, maybe because you didn't get the chance, but on June 7th, I suggest you go and watch. It will also be shown in the European Parliament in Brussels on June 5th. Now, let me tell you this story first. When this lady came to me, she said that, regardless of these issues, she suffered a brain hemorrhage and was hospitalized for three months, so she fought for life and death. After three months in the hospital, the doctor said: "Go home, rest, don't get out of bed, and don't tell you any bad news." He says: "I came home -- he has a 16-year-old son -- my son entered my room in the evening, he probably thought I was going to die, and he said to me: "Mom, I need to tell you something, I'm gay." In that moment -- think about it, I shouldn't even get out of bed -- I jumped out of bed. I had a son, he died that night. I wonder if he's got a disease. When we were growing up, did he tell us that he had struggled with it for two years because of fear of the world? In the end, he held his head in his hands for a day or two, thinking for a few hours, saying, "My son, is he a man?" and finally deciding for his son. Really, it's a story that gets inside of you, and if you watch this movie, it's like this -- it's not in that movie, but there's this lady in the movie, and she tells other things -- you'll hear stories. Now, you can say, "Honey, that's not going to happen to my child. I raised my child well. Don't say that because it's not a choice that people choose, so people don't choose to become LGBT individuals, and they don't get fooled by other people, and it's not a disease, and it's not something that can be cured, and some people are born that way. When you look at this painting, there really are prejudices in society, especially for these individuals, who are incredibly different in society, but there are very serious prejudices against LGBT individuals, and unfortunately, the political institution has never done anything in terms of tracking them down. Now, these people are once under police harassment and violence. I'll give you an example: there's a women's organization called the Purple Roat, who got up at a meeting of a young boy -- a student, probably well-dressed, wearing a long-sleeved shirt with a squared blouse -- and he said: "I mean, this can't be happening on the road -- in Istanbul, the police took me to the police took me to the station, they took my pants down, they checked my underwear, and they fined me for not liking the shape. I mean, they don't have that kind of authority in Turkey, but they do. This Law of Misdemeanor, once, is a nightmare for many of these individuals, because at the very least the police have violated the Law of Covenant. Today, for example, there are LGBT individuals who have accumulated the amount of punishment they can't pay. At the same time, they can't be used by police, by their families or by society, because if they go to the hospital, the police will be notified because there's been a violent incident, and they can't be treated for their fear. They're being abused by the family, many of them can be killed. Two or three days ago, there was a trial for a case like this. They're forced to commit suicide, and what's worse, unfortunately, in our courts, our judges can go to discounts on all these killers for aggravated provocation, for good behavior, for wearing a tie and a jacket. They can be lynched by the people, and there was such a thing in the Hunters. They're excluded from the labour market, they can't get a job, they're fired from what they find, and a special problem between two adult individuals is becoming a social problem. Because they're turning to sex work for a living. They're humiliated in their working life, they're hit by mobbing, they're having trouble renting houses, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, and they live in constant fear. Look, last year I was walking down a dark street in Istanbul. I can't tell you how nervous he was when he heard my footsteps, and there was a gentleman in front of me, who was a little bit of a gay man. We women do that, you don't look back, because then you'll know you're scared, so you'll look sideways. I wanted him to see that I was a woman, to get past his fear, but I couldn't, because he was speeding up. The horror he experienced was incredible, that someone was following him and that he was going to attack him. And they're being treated inhumanely to be drafted. This has been spoken of before, even the film has been made. Whereas these people, ordinary people like all of us, good citizens like many of us, and people who live in their own way, this painting is unacceptable. As a TBMM, I think this country, as representatives of the nation, needs to change this painting. Every man must be free and equal. Everyone has basic rights because they are human beings, especially the right to live. Every man deserves a human life, and we can't ignore those rights in a country we claim to be democracy, especially in a country we claim to be advanced democracy. I hope you'll vote positive for my motion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also want to tell you something else about yesterday's incident in Istanbul: I really appreciate the violence of the police, the excessive violence of the police, to the friends who protest that the trees were cut down in this division park. As Istanbul MP, I wanted to mention that as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0057par0036	Thank you, Mr. Earth, thank you. Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0058par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to talk about a state ceremony held today in Istanbul: Today, another step has been taken to cut off Istanbul's breath, water, and stuff grass in its life. Instead of the armies of the Conqueror, who conquered Istanbul five hundred and sixty years ago, today's thieves, capital armies, are entering the conquest. By means of the third bridge, which they call Yavuz Sultan Selim....., the conquest-loving descendants of the Ottomans are chaining our Bosphorus. Those who invaded Istanbul from all sides, and took part in the workers' lands, laid their eyes on the forests and water basins of the north. For what? Land, rant, investment and looting. The third bridge will create new immigration, settlement, population and transportation problems that will require new ones. The people who ransacked the Travel Park with barracks and malls, the Galataport and the Halic, the third bridge and the airport, and the city's air-breathers, with their crazy projects, history, culture, nature... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] History will not forgive those who destroy the lives of workers.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0059par0048	Mr. Aykan Erdemir MP against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Mr. Erdemir, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0060par0051	Anyway, it's not clear who's against who.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0061par0052	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I salute the High Council and our citizens who are watching us on television and computer screens. I have made a promise against the proposed motion, but I will speak in favour of the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0060par0054	For God's sake! You're going to do something very ethical.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0061par0056	The good lawmakers couldn't fit my child into the whole world. The mother of a different citizen who was killed in Bursah in September 2010: They couldn't fit my child into the entire world. We're talking about, here, today, can we open a tiny little space to fit the children of these mothers and fathers in our entire world? Yeah, is there a little place in our whole world? Do we have a small place for those killed by 12 stab wounds, for those killed by 40 stab wounds, for those inflicted on their bodies, for those wounded in their hearts? There is a film about the lives, experiences, sufferings, and suffering of the community that brought together the parents of the LGBT individuals in Turkey together, which calls to our community as director of Can Can Candan, calling out to humanity, speaking with the warmest of feelings, and speaking with the warmest of emotions, and in this documentary, do you have a place for my children? Is he entitled to my child? Is there freedom for my child? They ask me, is there equality for my child? This documentary is such an important documentary that we wished that all of our MPs in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would watch it once, watch this family movie, listen to their parents, feel sympathy, feel the same way. We asked for an appointment from our Parliament Speaker, Mr. Cemil Cicek, who himself -- with all due respect -- did not offend us, listened to this documentary, listened to its contents, and said: "It would not be appropriate to show under the Parliament's roof, but you show this document, invite our deputies, and we -- we immediately asked for help from our mayor of Çankaya, Mr. Bült Witness. He himself did not offend us, but at the earliest possible moment, the City of Çankaya gave us the Centre for Modern Art. We sent an invitation to all the MPs in our parliament, and we said, "Come, let's all listen to the mothers and fathers of children whose sexual orientation and gender identity are different." I want to thank you here because the mothers and fathers weren't alone that night because six of our congressmen left their mother and father alone that evening. Republican People's Party MPs Gürsel Tekin, Sezgin Tanrıkulu, Melda Onur and Flood Köse were there; we thank them. At the same time, Mr. Safija Seymenoglu, MP of the AK PARTI Tripoli, was among us, and we thank him for his empathy. Dear MPs, the world is changing, Turkey is changing, society is changing; we are determined to walk towards better and better. Look, just three years ago, on March 7, 2010, the secretary of state for women and family, Mr. Aliye Kaaf, said: "I believe that homosexuality is a biological disorder, a disease, something that needs to be treated. I think it's a very public reaction. Today he himself is not among us as a minister, but Turkey has come a long way in the past three years; on 10 May 2013, about three years later, another minister, Minister of Family and Social Policy Mr. Fatma Şahin, who had been filling the same chair, said: "The world is changing, the world is falling apart, a better, more beautiful world is possible, is possible." Look, there's an organization in the world today called Al-Fatiaha. It is an organization of Muslims, their families, their friends, who are organized in about 20 percent of the world, who are different from gay, sexual orientation, and gender identity. I mean, it used to be thought that the difference between belief and sexual orientation and gender identity can't be combined, but in many countries around the world today Muslim gays, transsexuals, gays, lesbians are organized, and they're slowly changing their own society. Unfortunately, however, Turkey is not moving as fast as we want, and many international reports criticise Turkey's discrimination in this area, its slowness in this area. For example, there are criticisms in the United States State Department's 2012 Human Rights Report, there are various criticisms in the International Amnesty Report 2013, there are various criticisms in the European Parliament decision bill on the Progress Report of Turkey in 2013, and it is said that the government of Turkey does not fight discrimination and violence against the LGBT. So we have an important distance to take in this area, we have an important distance to take in this area, but don't think that this distance is going to be with ideas and inspirations that we're going to take from far away. We just need to look at our past, our tradition, our essence. The Republic is an equal citizenship project, the republic is an orphan, the republic is a state of law above all else, the nation's will to the top. Here's the republic, the fortress of segregation, which is equal to discrimination -- we believe that when it comes to sexual orientation and gender identity, the republic will have no one, no one, no one.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0062par0064	That's immoral!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0061par0065	Look, you can't get anywhere in anger, you can't get anywhere with violence. If you'd just watched this documentary...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0062par0066	It's immoral!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0063par0067	Congressman, please... please...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0061par0068	If you had listened to me, I believe your heart would have softened too. I believe...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0062par0069	It's immoral!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0063par0070	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0061par0071	...you'd be able to empathize, too. But we know that society is slowly changing, that hate speech and hate crimes are slowly subject to sanctions, sanctions, and actions. We, the Republican People's Party, wish that Turkey not be driven by anger and hatred. As we have pledged in our election declaration, we demand a legal arrangement to fight discrimination and fight hate crimes in Turkey as soon as possible. You know, there's a platform created by over 70 NGOs in Turkey -- the Hate Crimes Law Campaign platform. There's a hate crime bill that's a product of the common mind of this platform. I want us to take this draft and meet in our Parliament and accept it. In order to cause that, as a proposal of law in December, I presented the agenda of Parliament with the product of this common mind, the product of the common mind of these 70 NGOs. We desire and hope that one day, in this entire world, one day, there will be a small place on the agenda of this great House for the law of hate crimes, and there will be a time. Finally, I want to address the parents of LISTAG mothers, LISTAG fathers: Shule Anne, Omar Baba, Mother Pınar, I know you're watching us, and I know you're wondering if there's even a tiny bit of room for your children in our entire world. I believe that today, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this great Parliament, will ease the age of your eyes and say that we have a place for your child in our entire world. We have room for our child in your entire world. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0064par0076	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0065par0080	Mr. President, dear friends, we support the Republican People's Party's proposal for research. We are grateful to our dear friend Binnaz Earth, who helped bring up a very important issue. The importance of this issue is not only to raise the rights of those in the set of sexual orientations, but also to demonstrate the fact that we can't defend the rights of any of them without defending their rights, just as you can't defend the rights of the women, just as you can't defend the rights of the poor, of the workers, of the LGBT individuals without defending the rights of the Kurdish. All rights sequences are fundamentally linked. You can't really convince us or anyone else that you're defending what's left by ignoring or denying someone. Of course, we have a very valuable ally in this regard, Mr. Prime Minister Erdogan, who attended a television program in 2002, said: "Legal sex must also be guaranteed legally within the framework of its rights and freedoms. On some television screens from time to time, we don't find the treatment they deal with humane. We don't know if it's going to be like this today, or if it's going to be from the people of Lot, but let's look at a few indicators when we get back to why we need to investigate the status of the LGBT individuals at the heart of the matter. One of them is an area study conducted by Professor Yilmaz Esmer (professor of Bahçeşehir University) in 2009. In this study under the heading of Radicalism and Extremism, 87% of those who have interviewed 1,715 people in 34 counties and who do not want to be neighbors with him and his team? All the answers include 72 percent of the drinkers, 66 percent of those who don't believe in any religion, 66 percent of the Jews, 52 percent of the Christians. So we can clearly see that there is a very common publicized prejudice in society. Even though this is not based on any law, for example, on a channel broadcast by the Radio and Television Oversight, those in their power from time to time are highly biased and aggressive against this set of sexual orientation preferences. The Military Law, on the other hand, basically opposes homosexuals, and forces them to prove their co-existence with extremely insulting indicators in order to make the choice to exempt them from military service. When it comes to all of this, it's said that they don't exist, but those who go to military examinations see how others who are not themselves are treated there. Now, then, in reality, there is a community of people who have been pushed to the edge of society because of social prejudices, traditional behaviors, temples, myths, bad speech, and so on, it takes special measures to equalise them with the rest of society. So this research is necessary. Let's look into the situation, let's see. Let's see. The lesbian, gay, bisexual, transvestite and transsexuals we call LGBT individuals should be guaranteed by the law that they are equal members of this society, that they can't be discriminated against in any way, that people who have been reduced to a minority in the face of social prejudices should be able to be restored to equal rights with positive discrimination. But I'm really curious about that, what kind of decision the House will make in this regard. The Peace and Democracy Party Parliamentary Group has requested that the right to sexual orientation be compiled into the Constitution during the Constitutional debates. Unfortunately, this was among the things that were not understood, due to the objections of AKP and DP representatives. Let's hope, today, for example, a miracle, that the House takes a giant step forward, declares a will in that direction, that a constitutional dispute can be solved. However, we'll see if that's the case. I want to point to another point. We, none of us, my peers, have come into this world with infinite tolerance in this regard. Our access to these ideas came under the circumstances in which we had to choose against the great injustices. Personally, when I had never tested my attitude towards gay individuals in my entire life, I had to make a choice in prison, where gay individuals who had come to prison were persecuted by various revolutionary actions or political actions with us. Either we'd see him as one of the revolutionaries, like ourselves, or we'd leave him there to be tortured. We took them in with the revolutionaries, walked with them. We have learned to contain this right under persecution, in the dungeons of fascism, and we will never, ever forget it. For the first time in prison with a gay individual, when the prison administration fell into the hands of revolutionaries, before 1980, I came across a complaint from other prisoners. I asked him, and I said, "Why are you doing this?" The answer he gave me was so simple, so basic, and to the end human: "What are you going to do, brother, my lover?" I had no choice but to accept the answer as it is. Some women may love some men, some women may love others, but this is the truth of our lives, and it is the duty of the great majority to learn to live with it. Defending the rights of the majority, defending the rights of the heterosexual individuals, defending the rights of the Turks, defending the middle class, defending the rights of the current morality, these are very easy things. The law is already on your side, the state is on your side, society is on your side, everyone is on your side. If you can defend the rights of those who are not, then you really have become human, and you have earned the right to stand up for people. We are Kurdish in the march of gay honor, we are gay in the division. When we say, "They are homosexuals," he said, "they are propaganda against it." The truth is, it wouldn't have mattered if I was, but the whole point is to defend the homo's rights, even though you're not gay, and they're defending their rights. On the day when those who are not like them defend their rights, Turkey will be another country. When Turkey defends Turkey's rights to Kurds, when heterosexuals defend the rights of homosexuals, when men defend women's rights, when the elderly defend the rights of the young, when the well - beings will really become another country. Otherwise, it can continue to be as it always has been. Then you will go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on That's why we want this research motion accepted. We urge Prime Minister Erdogan to go behind his word in 2002. We wish the majority of Congress would surprise us this time, surprise us, accept this motion for research. It will eventually be the duty of this Assembly to make legal arrangements that will allow gays, gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals to have the same rights as us, even a little bit more to cover this gap. If it's not today, it's tomorrow, but we'll be with the oppressed. Thank you very much for this offer, Binnaz Earth. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0066par0096	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu opposes the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0067par0100	Mr. President, I have made a promise against this motion, which Mr. Professor Binnaz Üurk....on the matter of investigation in the Parliament. Now, first of all, as a medical doctor, I personally want to know what this is, and I think you want to know. Is this a biological defect, a sociological event, or is it a psychological situation, which is it?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0068par0102	None of them are. That's why we've made a motion to investigate.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0069par0103	Let's investigate, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0067par0104	First, we have to decide that. In 1974, in America, in 1992, psychiatric associations in Europe investigated it, and at the end of its research came to a conclusion: This, as the other speakers have just stated, is simply what we call an unusual behavior...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0070par0106	It's not D, it's LGBT, it's LGBT.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0067par0107	...this is not normal behavior. The AK PARTY values man because he is human and considers everyone equal in the eyes of the law, expressing love for him because of the Creator. The measures taken at a social level are not intended for a specific sexual orientation, but for the benefit of all mankind. However, the importance we attribute to our human being cannot be assessed by opening doors to life forms that our people do not approve of, and by encouraging them in some way, as a measure of democracy, as a criterion to trigger social degradation. Such an assessment would not be justified. In our struggle with women's murders, we didn't ignore anyone because they were trans individuals. Whether it's a woman's murder, whether it's a man's murder, whether it's sexual tendencies, whether it's an attempt to attack and kill people, we've come to all of them with a zero tolerance policy against violence. Thus, claims that there has been a disinterest in LGBT individuals are incompatible with reality. It's not a right for a woman to marry a man, it's a practice that opens the way for a social breakdown that makes it look like it's a trick to reverse sexual patterns. I find the allegations that we should model the West ourselves in this regard baseless. Dominique Venner, a famous historian of France, has recently committed suicide in Paris' famous Notre Dame Cathedral to protest the legalisation of gay marriage in her country, as all of us have seen in the media. In fact, the fact that protests involving hundreds of thousands of people in France are involved in the annulment of the law shows that the public opinion of many developed countries, including Turkey, and even more advanced democracies, is not yet ready. By conducting a joint study with the civil society that needs to be done, a prerequisite for hate attacks on trans individuals and their killings...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0071par0113	That's what we're suggesting.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0067par0114	...is effectively preventing officials and judicial members from making decisions on arbitrary or segregating grounds. And for that, I believe that the civil society, which we have eyes on in the local community, should be in a decision-making, effective dialogue process. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0072par0117	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0073par0118	Sir, he gave false information here, dear Ms. Türkan. I want to fix a few things.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0072par0119	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0073par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has made this a bit of a custom: They are promoting science for the restrictive provisions it has made or expressed, claiming that others know nothing about science. That's what they said about Prohibition. The Prime Minister said yesterday that drinking was harmful, proved by science. He said, "That's not true, I'll write about it." If you go in and look, all of the research that's done is show that red wine prevents brain failure and heart attack, especially up to 40 percent of the time, provided it doesn't go too far and be a couple of cups a day and three or four days a week, and that's very serious scientific research. That's one.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0074par0125	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0075par0126	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0076par0127	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0077par0128	Second, I got my degree and grad school in the U.S.A. I was in America in 1974, in 1974, America was so backward on these issues that there were scientists who claimed that blacks were dumber than whites. For him, research conducted in 1974 cannot be presented to us in 2013 as science. I'm so sorry, Ms. Türkan, but I think what you're saying is wrong. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0078par0130	Mr. President, you're advocating grossness.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0131	Well, he did say something to you, didn't he?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0078par0132	It's immoral...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0133	Look, I thought that's what you said about Mrs. Türkan, what she said, and then we'll look at the report, but...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0078par0134	But we accuse, we don't defend immorality...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0135	Yeah, I get it, but now, my beautiful brother, the gentleman, he yells, and then he's gone. I mean, here, on that bench, that's what you call it... so when you swear at each other, when I promise, it'll be fine linen candy. He's gone from there.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0078par0136	I don't need to tell the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0137	Yeah, no, look, I mean, he's gone. I can't take him for a tease, because everyone's talking to each other, and we can't run this coven. I thought that's what Mrs. Türkan said, there's no such thing, the gentleman said to you, and then he left.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0078par0139	So, from today on, is it free to call the priest and the party group on the stand?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0080par0140	He needs to apologize.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0141	Look, it's a shame for the party group to be here now, and it's a shame for people to swear at each other. The entire group of vice presidents came here, and I signed my signature, and the members of the Court here signed it, and as a result, we condemned this kind of talk, and we decided that it would never happen again, and I warned that friend of his that I was talking to you, and then he left, and then he left.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0081par0143	Then, Mr. President, we defend the right, we continue to defend the right...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0144	Now, look, that's already been filed...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0081par0145	That's our message to those who advocate immorality.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0146	Okay, it's in the report. Yeah...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0082par0148	Mr. President, can I say one more thing? I protest that the AKP's friends would come here just to vote without listening to the arguments, and if they did, they might have voted positive. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0150	He's on the report, too, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0083par0154	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0079par0155	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who agree... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motion is rejected. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Turkish Oil Act and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked third. Commission? Here. Where's the government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0084par0173	Here, here.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0085par0174	No government, take five.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0086par0175	There is no government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0087par0176	There is no government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit03spe0088par0177	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0088par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0002	Mr. President, you just did the wrong thing. According to Article 62 of the Civil Code, a government representative must be present from the beginning of each union to the end of each meeting, if you read it. If the representative of the government is not found, he says he will be left to another union. So it doesn't say leaveable. Did you just...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0090par0003	There was a commission.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0004	Let go of me, dear.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0005	Don't interfere, please, let me listen to Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0006	Mr. President, you just said that the commission is here. There is no government, because there was no government.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0007	I didn't say no.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0008	Sir, why are you taking a break? Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0009	But I didn't say no.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0010	So there was no government.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0011	I didn't say anything, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0012	Let him out, Mr. President. Otherwise, I'd like a word on your attitude according to Article 63.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0013	Okay, all right, I promise you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0014	Sir?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0015	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0016	Mr. President, well, promise me one thing, and I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0017	I will. Mr. Young, do I offend you? When did I break it?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0089par0018	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0019	Okay, all right.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0092par0020	How can a person who's so reminiscent, so respected be broken?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0021	Now, I'm asking you, look, I'm asking the members of the Justice and Development Party. Now, quiet, quiet, let's get this over with.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0093par0022	They can start a fight if they want, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0023	If there's a fight, I'm with you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0093par0024	No, I mean, they know, they're in power.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0025	I'm saying something else.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0093par0026	Okay.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0091par0027	I'll give you the first promise, I'll give you the first promise, and now let's have the other friends. Against Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0094par0029	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0095par0030	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0096par0031	Against you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0097par0032	Okay. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0098par0035	But, Mr. President, if you could just give me five minutes... because we need to talk more.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0097par0036	Come on, I'll give you five minutes, okay, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0098par0039	Mr. President, valued MPs, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the most respected institution in Turkey. As this institution begins its operation, they must know that our fellow vice presidents, especially those who sit on the presidential bench, are very objective, the same people who have to apply the Civil Code with the same letter. Now, something like this says in the 62nd article of the Civil Code: there is a government representative from the beginning to the end of each meeting. If the representative of the government is not found, he says, look, the last sentence is: If he is not ready at the beginning of the interview, the meeting on that subject will be left to the next one. When you came to the bill earlier, you said the Commission was here. But you said that the government... you said, there was no government member in the hall of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that's the truth. So, when you didn't, you took a ten-minute break from the merger. Now, the reason you're taking a ten-minute break from the merger is because there is no government representative in the Turkish Grand National Assembly hall. Therefore, according to Article 62, you would not take a break, you would go to the next item on the agenda, because this is the Civil Code, and they wrote it this way: it will be abandoned. It says, "It will be abandoned." It does not say. So, if our friends on the legislature of the Speakership of Parliament... come on, if they're vice presidents of the ruling party... but you're the vice president of the opposition party, please apply the Civil Code. And you have to postpone that, that agenda. Look, it's a government, so if you guys act like this, the government doesn't respect this Parliament anyway. Look, is there one minister at the moment? No. Who... where are they? 'Cause they're out having fun, you guys. They're out having fun.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0099par0043	He's here, look, look.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0100par0044	He's here, look, look in the back.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0098par0045	They have no respect for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Great...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0099par0046	You're blind!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0098par0047	Yeah, well, I can see it, you can't see it. I can see just fine. And so, if you act as a disciplined vice president, now, they'll come and sit here again, but since you don't, all the vice presidents will manage us anyway, so we can go to Parliament or not. The administration of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is already acting in parallel with our orders and instructions. There is no such administration, Mr. President, you have to be objective, you have to do the right thing. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a serious institution. Those who run this institution have to maintain the same seriousness. So the government is out there, and they don't care about Congress, they don't have ministers, they don't answer our questions properly. Yesterday the Minister of Finance is answering our questions, giving us false information. I say you've given seven ports to several companies along the way of income partnerships. We're negotiating with the CSI Commission. Friends don't collect a penny in 15 years. And there's also the statute of limitations. Here comes Mehmet Simsek, who says we've collected $11 million. Well, friends, that's not how it works, so there's got to be some seriousness in this government. All corruption and abuse are being covered up through denial. At least you're here as Acting Speaker, I think, Mr. President, you'll have to postpone today's agenda. That's what honesty is for an honest government. Otherwise, if you act this way, this government will act this way against this Parliament, and will not take this House so seriously. Friends, I mean, any person who can read and write understands this code. He says: "Every meeting has to be a government from the beginning. Mr. Vice President opened it, there was a commission, the government looked at it, and the government took a break when there was no government. He can't. Now, either we apply the Civil Code or we don't. If you don't apply it, then we don't need anyone or the Civil Code, Mr. President, then we don't need the law the AKP wants with its head, and we don't even need to negotiate. With a lot of laws, corruption laws, the truth is hidden from this nation. Look, you brought in a tax pardon the other day, a grant of wealth. You've brought that pardon, you've introduced it to the people in Turkey. So, there are so many major robberies, so many major violations of the law in this courtroom, you're not supposed to be able to do that in the first place. Mr. President, I respect you very much, but you're gonna have to skip this agenda because you don't have a government, so you're gonna have to move on to agenda two. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0101par0055	Thank you, Mr. Young. In my favor, Mr. Doğan Kubat, the Istanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0059	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favour of Mr. President's position in the debate of the procedure. On this occasion, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0060	There's nothing to discuss in this article!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0104par0061	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0062	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are under the 15th amendment of our Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0063	Mr. President, there's nothing to discuss.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0064	...the duties of the Vice President of Parliament are clearly written. It is the duty and the authority of our Vice President to conduct the General Assembly talks. The law's application of discussion and its fundamentals are also elaborated in this Charter. It's a form of representation of the commission and the government here in law talks, it's true.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0066	Is it shape or shape?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0067	Article 62 of the article 62, titled the government's representation of the government, has been imposed on the General Assembly by the prime minister or the concerned minister or in mandatory cases to present an opinion for the government from the beginning to the end of each meeting. The purpose of both changes is to make the proposal -- there may not always be a bill here -- or the government's view of the content of the law in the bill clear -- when the two reasons for change are examined -- to ensure that the legislative activity is carried out in a healthier way. That's the essence of the rule. My dear President, when he came to the Turkish Oil Law Bill, which was just in the third place of the bill and proposals on the agenda, he asked the Commission, because he has to ask the Commission separately and the government and make a statement based on our president's discretion. Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0069	It's not up to your discretion, it's mandatory.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0070	Mr. Young, we've listened to your views, so we're expressing our views.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0071	What if you read the material and you interpret it like that, and I've been telling you for an hour... you can't read.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0072	Mr. President, is the commission here from the relevant residency commission the existence of one of the spokesman assigned to participate in the law talks? Yes, here. He identified it by saying, "It will be seen if the reports are examined." At the time, Mr. President, under Article 62, without making a statement as to whether the government is here or not...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0073	He did, he did... look at the statement.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0074	...without any indication of existence or absence...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0075	He said, "There is no government."
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0076	...has stopped seeing each other. This is a matter entirely in the eyes of our President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0077	That's no way to appreciate it.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0078	Before that, there are earlier practices in the House, and if the President of Laws and Decisions is asked, we will present the minutes later. The commission is here. After it is called, there is even a recession on the commission, where there is a commission sitting in the commissions, without making a determination about wealth and absence, and then there is further talks.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0103par0079	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0080	We can do that in a little while. Dear friends, this charter and the Constitution... according to the Charter of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... of course, a portion of the Charter is filled with spaces, practices, Parliamentary rules; we have experienced friends here for many years, and they know it very well.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0105par0082	He asked, "Where is the government?"
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0083	Mr. President, this is the right of appreciation for this House's efficient work. I really appreciate our president.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0106par0084	You appreciate it coming to your account, don't you?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0102par0085	He's showing this understanding of all political parties in an extraordinary good-willed, tolerant effort to ensure that the House's time doesn't go to waste, so that we can discuss things here on the agenda and make it happen as quickly as possible. I just think that his actions, beyond his human, optimistic approach, are one-on-one with the internal regulations. Therefore, there is nothing in our esteemed President's position, his attitude, his conduct, and his regulations. I say I'm in favor of the position of our president, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0107par0088	Mezmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam against my conviction. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0108par0091	Mr. President, I have been promised the position of our esteemed legislators, Mr. Speaker, our current Vice President. Mr. Coral Akshener, during my time in this Parliament, he is a respected vice president, who has also been in the heart of all of us, as a lady of determination, good intentions, to lead the House. I have no qualms that he's doing well as Speaker of Parliament; I like him, I consider him. But today, because I have experienced every moment of this incident, when Mr. Kamer Young made criticism of his situation, his attitude, I came up here with a conscience to believe that he was right. Because, Mr. President, after the talks on the hearing ended, he continued to discuss the Petroleum Act, and representatives of the Commission came. He looked at the government, there was no government. So I looked him in the eye, and I said, "Take a break, Mayor." Then, I read the Civil Code, and I said, "Take a break." I believed that it was wrong to say, because there was no government in practice at the time, that it should pass the law, and therefore I made a promise against it. But let me underline something. Look, guys, let me tell you something I just experienced: I'm a member of this Commission on behalf of the Republican People's Party. I have an appointment at 4:30. On my way to my appointment, I told Mr. Group Vice President and Mr. Free Private that I might be a little late. I have a speech in Article 8 but I may be late. In case there's any delay, I'm asking you, ask for a roll call, and I won't be late. I finished my appointment early, and I got here before five, and I sat here. It is not appropriate for the representatives of the government not to show the sensitivity and sensitivity that I show, but to have not come here knowing the course of this law, the future, to practice this law and this parliament. So, I'd like to commend you on the consideration of this behavior by the House and by the presidency. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0109par0097	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. In favor of my attitude, Mr. Oktay Vural. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0110par0101	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have requested a word in favor of your position. In fact, today's agenda -- the will to discuss the oil law bill -- was brought directly to the truth by the AKP -- was not agreed upon by the Advisory Board, so a group of proposals were proposed and requested to discuss it. Surely it was the AKP Group that needed the Commission to ensure that the government would be present on such a matter. In this regard, if the will was intended to negotiate, the will not to have it here was, in a way, the AKP Group's will. Yeah, well, it's really a matter of the commission and the government. If the government doesn't exist once, then there's no need for the government to be called after it, because by not supplying the government or commission's will here from time to time, the majority will, in a way, prevent those laws from being discussed. As a matter of fact, today's agenda has two laws before that. There's no meeting here without the commissioner and the government. So it was made of willpower. In this regard, I don't know if such a will exists or not, but at this point we're here, it's based on the explanation that both the commission and the government need to be searched. However, in order to discuss such a matter today in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our party groups have prepared themselves, while we are here to do the talks, Mr. Speaker, I believe, considering that it is a momentary incident, especially the absence of Mr. Minister, and in order to wait for a government, Turkey has agreed to take a break from the Grand National Assembly. Because there was also an opinion that there really was no such will. In that respect, our Parliamentary Speaker has taken the initiative to ensure the dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and not to put the esteemed MPs of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the position of a minister. In that respect, I think the basic responsibility here belongs to the AKP Group and the Minister. And, Mr. Speaker, considering that there is no will not to negotiate a bill or a proposal directly, and since it does not see fit for the House to wait, I believe, by taking a break, the Minister will be found. Otherwise, these things happen here from time to time, the commissioner or the ministers, even our speakers from time to time. In that regard, we can't make the timing of the conversation for a moment, and when we don't have a speaker, take five minutes off. We make statements, and from time to time, we can also do these things. In that sense, I think the president's attitude is correct at a point when such a matter is not guaranteed to wait or jump. But it's about the next process... which is the procedure, but the procedure is very important because it's the procedure that we're going to take into account. We have to follow this procedure, we have to make up the majority will, we can't make up the order of the majority will. In that regard, it is normal for the AKP Group and its ministers to be concerned about such a matter -- if there is no intentional will. In that respect, I have the will to take a recess instead of a postponement over the absence of the Minister... and we have had a recent discussion on the Council of Counsellor's proposal, and we don't have a congressman at the time, so there's been a recess situation. In this regard, I really don't think we should consider such matters as a tactical, step by step, for the Council not to work tactically. And I believe it's right to address it in a reasonable understanding between parties, and to respect and enforce the will of our Speaker, our Speaker, the Vice President, who is running the House. In that respect, I made a promise in his favor. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0111par0108	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0112par0109	Mr. President, look, the Civil Code is very clear here. The Parliament does not give the Deputy President the right to be praised, says: "Rescheduled, released, assigned to another union. " If you don't apply it today, this Parliament will wait for hours tomorrow. Look, I have a lot of respect for your, of course, honesty. On that stand, you must apply the Civil Code in matters where the Civil Code does not give the president the right to be appreciated. The Civil Code doesn't give the President any credit here. Please, I beg you, apply the Civil Code. If you don't apply it, it's a matter of your conscience, but I believe you will force your conscience to enforce it, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0111par0111	Thank you. The Minister has a brief request according to Article 60.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0113par0115	Mr. President, dear friends, I've been in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for about three hours. As Mr. President said, it's a momentary incident, so I apologize to my friends for that. The AK PARTY doesn't belong to the Group, that responsibility belongs to me. But there are two roads here. Number one: are we going to turn this into an opportunity, or are we going to complete it with mutual understanding, as always? In mutual understanding, all groups have had events almost like this, and that's all I have. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0114par0118	Mr. President, you've actually made the necessary warning, in a sense, by opening up a procedure discussion, so it's achieved its goal. In this regard, I believe, the government and others have been given a message of this nature, and the government has received the message. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0115par0120	Mr. President, we are aware of our responsibility as a group. We apologize to the other party groups for the inconvenience, and thank you for your appreciation, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0116par0121	But we're gonna write this in the paper, Mr. President, and we're gonna sing it on TV. Mr. President didn't listen to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0117par0122	No, you can't spare me.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0116par0123	I swear, Mr. President, we're very clear here...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0117par0124	Mr. Young, you can't spare me.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0116par0125	... I'm asking you to execute the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0117par0126	I get it, I get it, but you can't kill me. Congressmans, according to Article 55 of the Civil Code, the President will open and close the session if necessary. According to Article 62 of the Civil Code, the minister of the talks is present. As a result of the joint assessment of the two Civil Code provisions, our assessment of the procedure debate is as follows: After stating that we will begin negotiations on the bill in the previous session, the Commission was asked if it was ready, the government was asked if it was present, but there was no question of whether or not it was present. The President who manages the merger has the right to take a break from the merger. In previous applications, there are numerous examples of a break in the merger after the commission or the government has been asked at its representation point as they begin negotiations. The application is not in violation of the Civil Code. However, it is the need for efficient work that commission and government representatives do not interrupt talks by following closely and meticulously the work of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0116par0130	Then give the government a reprimand, Mr. President. Punish the government with a reprimand.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0117par0131	So we've given them a whole community. We will resume the talks of the Turkish Oil Act and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked third. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. Yesterday's unification was adopted under Article 91 of the Civil Code, which was part of the first chapter of the bill, which was considered the main law. Now, there are three motions on the 7th article, so I'll have it read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of Turkish Oil Law, 450 rows. Subsequent number one is (1). We propose that the first sentence of his joke be changed in the following way, and that after his second sentence's statement, the addition and technical declaration should be added. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı (x) 450 S. Add the Numbered Basmaz to the 108th Union Charter, dated 22/5/2013. Assessing the application for the application for the right of oil will be considered to be in accordance with the application's compliance with national interests and legislation, the ability to fulfil the employment and investment programme, which has been committed with the application's fiscal and technical competence, in comparison to other applications. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Kemal Millerdereli In the assessment of the application for oil rights, the application's compliance with national interests and legislation is considered, the financial and technical competence of the application and the aim of this contract of employment and investment programme, compared to other applications. The procedure and the basis for the assessment of the financial competence and business and investment programme are organised by regulations." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0118par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0117par0169	Who's gonna talk? You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0119par0170	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0117par0171	Read the reason. Number 4 of the 6326 Law. Article 1 of the article. The criteria for the demand for oil rights in his joke to be in accordance with national interests have been concluded with this clause. In the assessment of the application for oil rights, the application's compliance with legislation, the application's fiscal competency, the commitment of the employment and investment programme is seen as a sufficient measure to meet the purpose of the law on a shorter basis, according to other applications. The applications will not be sought for technical competence. Since these regulations will eliminate public interest/social interest in oil rights demands, 7. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Aytun Çiray (Izmir) and his friends In the assessment of the application for oil rights, the application's compliance with national interests and legislation is considered, the financial and technical competence of the application and the aim of this contract of employment and investment programme, compared to other applications. The procedure and the basis for the assessment of the financial competence and business and investment programme are organised by regulations." Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0120par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0117par0184	Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0121par0186	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have been promised our motion on the 7th Amendment. First of all, I salute you. Maybe I'm not going to talk about oil, but I'd like to bring up an important issue, again, in the ministry's field of duty, in the field of interest, the matter of the quarry. It's an important problem of my science. I think it's on the agenda as a major problem in the areas of our fellow lawmakers who are here. Dear friends, the arrangement for the quarry was in the jurisdiction of the county's private administration until 2004, and they may know that our following friends have been in charge of the Department of Energy since 2004. So now, the Ministry of Mining gives us licenses. Now, there have been examples. I've received an answer to a question I've recently submitted to the Ministry. I have already submitted a motion on the knowledge of Turkey. I'm about to share with you the difference between the two motions. When I share with you three and a half years ago the numbers related to my knowledge, I think you'll be able to pretty much guess what's going on with the country. Now, I've been telling you from time to time, I've talked to you yesterday in the questions section -- a province of about 6,500 square kilometers, but 40 percent of it is covered in forests. So, the Istrancas, which you know as the Star Mountains, are within our borders. There are forests almost half the area. Dear friends, this is an important part of the quarry, a serious part of the forest field. In fact, I don't think it should concern the Ministry of Energy and Resources alone. From time to time, I tell our Minister of Forestry and Water, as well as our Minister of Environment, I make my complaints. Although, the names of the ministries have changed, and in the past he has become Minister of the Environment Forest, here he is, Minister of Forestry and Water, Mr. Erogluna, Mr. Bayraktar. Now, if there's ever a chance with the Minister -- we'll get on a helicopter one day -- let's take a look around those parts of the forest. Mr. Prime Minister is on a helicopter from above. He's looking at Istanbul. Here's the third bridge, sir. The airport will be built here. Let's go for a ride with him, even with Mr. Eroglu, Minister of Forests and Water Affairs, and we'll take Bayraktar, and they'll see this, and they'll be amazed: such mounds, such areas, open spaces, baldness, side by side, baldness in the forest. Maybe they don't know it from the ground, but if you look from above, they'll see that we're actually dealing with this kind of savage destruction, and they'll see that we're dealing with it, too. Let me just put the numbers down for you. I said in the motion I gave in 2009: "How many licenses have been given to me in my department regarding these quarryes?" I asked for the name of my business license. The figures refer to 55 business licenses, including 46 of the second group and 1/B of 9 of the second group. I gave it to you in November 2009, so in early 2010, it was a matter of three or three and a half years or three years. Now, in response recently, I asked again -- the distribution of these licenses as a province -- only business licenses, which are 55, are valued friends. Besides, he's got a call, he's got a call, he's got a call, he's got a business, he's got a front business, we've got 248-250 licenses in our county. So when you look at it as a number, you suddenly see that the number comes from 55 to 131, I'm talking about a business license. We have 248 licenses in our county. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know how to... you know, how to give it, who gets it? Well, that's a separate issue, so the Ministry is certainly doing evaluations -- so I'm sure they'll be able to address the questions in the part of the questions that I'm about to answer -- but I do believe that we have the impression that whoever finds his man, who does his job, comes and gets these licenses in our county. Dear friends, this land, this nature, we all inherit it, our grandchildren. We shouldn't be using these things so wildly and uncompromisingly. So the Istrancas... from time to time, in the past -- you know -- when Istanbul was dehydrated, we know that it was transferred water to Istanbul through the ISK. We watched a documentary today with our fellow MPs, a documentary about the pollution of Ergene. There is also the birthplace of Ergene, a basin, and a place of refuge, where there are precious friends, a quarry, miles from the side of the basin. They're explosive, they're operating there, so there's an earthquake of 3-6, and there's no way that those subterranean water sources won't change, so there's a risk. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And the clock is ticking, but I wanted to point out that it's important. Dear friends, I believe Mr. Secretary of the Environment and the Minister of the Forest will consider this matter together. Perhaps in a common way, I think this quarry issue should be dealt with. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0122par0200	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit04spe0123par0201	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. There's no decision enough, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0123par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Mr. Turgut Dibek and his friends' motion to vote on Article 7 of the bill. The previous session stated that the motion had not been accepted. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree to the motion... Those who do not accept the motion... Unacceptable. There's enough to make a decision. We will continue the talks of Bill 450. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of Turkish Oil Law, 450 rows. Subsequent number one is (1). We propose that the first sentence of his joke be changed in the following way, and that after his second sentence's statement, the addition and technical declaration should be added. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends "In the assessment of the application for the right of oil, the application's compliance with national interests and legislation is considered to be more likely to meet the job and investment programme, which has been committed to the application's fiscal and technical competence than any other application." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0124par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0123par0016	Kütahya MP Mr. Scholar Illum, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0125par0018	Mr. President, I have been promised a amendment to Article 7 of Turkish Oil Act 450, which we are discussing. I hereby salute the High Council. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that my constituency is the center of Simav County, Kütahya Province, and that all of our citizens should be relieved of the four-strength earthquake that occurred at 5:43 p.m. today. May God protect you from the worst, I would like to express to the government once again, on behalf of my countrymen the urgent request to resolve a matter that has not been resolved, although I have insisted and repeatedly expressed a wish here. The Simav State Hospital buildings, which were identified as medium damage after the earthquake on 19 May 2011, were evacuated by the assumption that it was severely damaged as we never knew the cause, and today these buildings were damaged in official detection reports, but did not collapse as they were not strengthened, but were not replaced. So there was no such thing as a State Hospital in Simav. It became a health clinic. I'm telling you today exactly what our citizens are transmitting: are we expected to die to build this hospital? Please, pass on our request. Two years later, the hospital couldn't determine the location. He lingered several times, and the Public Special Co-operation Act came up, so give it to whoever you want to give it to, but whoever you want to build this hospital, get it done immediately. Oh, if you're not going to do it, if you're not going to tear down the buildings, strengthen the medium-damaged people. I'm pushing this message to you because it's really bad, right now in the nation's infinitive state, memories are happening again, and I'm forwarding this emergency problem at the beginning. Now, to the subject of our proposal, we aim to make the bill better by adding two issues to this motion. First, we strongly recommend that this assessment be made, given national interests, in the regulation of the application and registration procedure in the article. Second, only financial competence is considered in the matter regarding the accession of oil rights. It may be the fiscal capacity of companies to obtain this right, but this company has money, so it should not have the right to extract oil from Turkey. With financial rights as well as financial competence, we're also predicting the requirement that it must be technically adequate; that's what our motion is about. Otherwise -- in my speech yesterday -- this bill is a bill from the law text of Turkey's Oils Anonymous Partnership, and we will continue to argue that the further developments would pave the way for privatisation of Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. I asked you in the question yesterday, and I don't mean in the short term, but in the middle and long term, does your government have any idea of privatizing Turkish Oil Anonymous? I didn't get the answer, hoping it was due to lack of time. Again, do you intend to do that? If so, explain this to the public, and to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Oh, there is. If you say there is, then we don't need to discuss this bill at all, and we don't need to bring these suggestions. If not, then we need this arrangement if the Turkish Oil Association of Anonymous will continue to operate in this area as a Turkish national company. If you're going to disable this company, which technically has the savings of the years, with such an arrangement, then we'll see if the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership can apply there in many areas from now on. In that case, this bill is intended for foreign companies. The thesis will be fixed. We want to get rid of it. On the other hand, I say, especially this one, that the oil and gas deals in northern Iraq have failed to respond. It's our right to know who you made the deal with, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Turkish nation. Otherwise, some doubts will come to the agenda of more Turkey. I beg you, have you signed with the local Kurdish administration in northern Iraq, or have you mediated on behalf of Turkish companies? If you've done it or signed it, what agreements have you signed? That's what we want to know. I await your support of our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0126par0027	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 8 there are four proposals, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the fourth joke of Article 8 of Turkish Petroleum Act No. 450 shall be changed as follows. Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat İsmail Tamer Akif Çağatay Kılıç Ahmet Orphankaya ===Early life=======Early life=======Early life======Early life======Early life======Early life======Early life=======Early life=======Early life======References====External links=== However, before the auction is held, the Ministry will ask the Anonymous Association of Turkish Petroleums in an article to determine whether or not it wants the area as a business license issue. Turkey's Oil Incorporated Association demands no field auctions. The entire or part of the business area, which was originally auctioned, can be removed from the auction with Minister's approval. The owner of the operating license, which was revoked after administrative sanctions, is the owner of oil rights or owners of the same business license, cannot again be entitled to the same business license." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 8th edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 4. The amendment of the "Minister's" statements in the joke to the Council of Ministers is "the end of the joke is given to Turkey's Oil Association for Business Licenses that are not acceptable to the Council of Ministers." Add expression; Seven. We offer and propose that the joke be taken out of the article text. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray of Kemal Millendere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 8 of the Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows, (4). We offer and offer to add the following sentence to the end of the joke. Alim Işım Emin Haluk Ayhan Mesut Dedeoğlu You've brought Lightning Erkan Akçay Bahattin Sugar "Inappropriate business licenses are granted to Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 8 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0127par0063	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0128par0064	Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0126par0065	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0129par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious lawmakers, especially when the issue of oil licenses is considered, it is seen in the East and Southeast District, especially in a area like Şırnak, Mardin, Batman, and if you look well at the map of the report here, the cities where oil is dense in the first place have shut down its own facility because it is my science, but TKI coal is scarce, and MTA has not needed to study in the region for 20 years. Again, Idil -- my district still has natural gas and oil coming out of the border line in Dinker and Mudland, which includes the border of Nusaybin and Mardin. On top of Mount Cudi, 2,000 metres [ 2,000 m] above, oil comes out in the lower layers of solid coal. And now that I've said that, I'm afraid I'd like to express regret that the earlier irregular licensing in the mining sector was also done in the field of oil and natural gas. So, 63 percent of 5,147 licenses are owned by the local foreign company. So here, of course, I'm saying because these numbers are in the report, and on land, the oil is 2,000, 2,500-3. It costs less when it's within 2,000 meters. Here, a well costs 3-5 million more at sea. You know, on the map, the Black Sea coastline appears to be an oil band, and the north of Cyprus appears to be an oil band. I want to point out a reality here. You're wrong if you think you're gonna set this whole thing up by giving 20 years of oil to foreign companies for ten years. Let me make it very clear that the peace and resolution process is the security of the energy and security equation in the region, and I'll make it very clear. So, you make whatever contract you want with Erbil. When you don't get your equation with the Iraqi Kurdistan regional leadership, with the Syrian Kurds, to make peace and integration, because Dinçer-Burns is at zero point, the borderline is oil and natural gas. There's natural gas coming out at 1,500 meters, there's oil coming out at 2,000 meters, and then there's carbon dioxide after 2,000, and wherever you're opening a well right now, there's this product coming out. Now, whether you license it or give it to foreign companies, you can't build a pipeline or go there. In fact, in the current practice, the length of the pipeline was given to the rangers within 300 metres of Idil-Midyat, and the entire forest was cut down, for security reasons, that's what that means. Now, you've got an eight-to-one state share vision here. Friends, if there's a source coming out of the ground, whether it's mineral or oil, if the government doesn't spend some of it there, the problems won't end. The environmental sensitivity of a citizen, the fact that foreign companies come and profit there, or take it away, creates a constant debate that undermines the sense of justice, but the greatest point of discussion -- I say it very clearly -- will all remain on paper until the end of this year, until the election, before a new constitution and a peacekeeping law is established. And there's no law here, fellas. This is a serious strategy, a very serious policy, a very serious security equation. In order to get out of this healthy, the government's performance is important until the end of November. In the process of resolution, sincerity and determination bring solutions beyond these laws, or the law remains on paper. As Şırnak MP, it's just a warning from me. My respects to all of you. We're saying it's useless in this way, so we want it removed.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0130par0076	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 8 of the Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows, (4). We offer and offer to add the following sentence to the end of the joke. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Non-profit operating licenses are granted to Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0131par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0130par0087	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0132par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We're discussing a very important bill. We've been talking about Turkey's energy deficit, energy strategies, energy policies in the Commission and the General Assembly for years. We would expect that this bill, which has been waiting for several years, is to be dealt with radically because of the extradition of the then President, to be taken into consideration by our relevant institutions and to be removed in a four-headed manner, but unfortunately, again, this law is being passed without touching its core with a few changes. We need to rephrase that this is not very healthy in terms of Turkey's energy policies, in terms of the future. In the motion here, dear friends -- the government has a motion for the final article, but it seems very indirect -- we suggest that the business licenses that are not considered appropriate by the Ministry of the Auction should be given to the TPAO, and we think it's a more accurate approach. Other than that, dear friends, there's a lot of criticism about this bill. The relevant organizations have informed us of their views, and they have informed the Commission, but first of all, what interests me most is that the TPAO is being weakened even more. In many countries, these activities have been conducted in an integrated way, while we have already gradually developed a mess in this energy sector. In recent days, a different operation related to the TPIC has also come up, and we are breaking it down. So when we need to strengthen, we need to put all of our activities together and create a more powerful oil company, unfortunately, we're dividing our power with corporations, subsidiaries, some work abroad, in a number of ways that are supposed to disintegrate all of them. This is supposed to be a national policy, but we're dealing with an arrangement that we've abandoned at the mercy of the market. I'm really curious as to why many of the investors in the search -- Mr. Secretary -- may be able to answer the questions in the department soon, but -- were differentiated by this form of TPIC. What's behind it, we really don't understand. The licenses are somewhere, the search is somewhere... what happens now, how will the new process work? I'm obviously curious. And here, if we're not going to do anything new, so if we're going to do two companies in two, then why are you taking TPIC, and trying to combine it with BOTASH? I mean, we don't quite understand what it's all about. On the contrary, I think we need an integrated structure that will bring all the calls, all the activities -- production activities -- together. Of course, they say it in a lot of places, it sounds good, it sounds good, you know, abroad, there's TPAO searching... but what about the calls in my country? It's something I've often heard, and I'm very upset, sir, that we don't have the technology to search deep down. It's called expensive to search deep down. The whole world's turned to this, and these calculations we're doing are the calls, the scans, and the calculations that we're doing at 30 to 40 dollars a barrel of oil, because we've always lacked strategy, predictions. In the environment where oil is up to $140, we're still talking about drilling at sea, deep oil. There are grown people in Turkey, and we're showing them the right way, and we're blocking them, unfortunately, because of the unpredictability and hasty plans that will allow us to build more deep-depth oil-seeking technology, to do research that will shift towards alternative products. In short, we've lost places here in some countries, a company that hasn't bought a new production site in 12 years abroad. Now, we're doing some activities in Iraq. There's nothing here either. So we see that this law contains nothing to do with strengthening Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. We have a chance to add a little bit more around here while the road is close, so we need to review this structure. And the decisions made about the corporations, the government and the Minister, are here to warn them to review once again, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0133par0099	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 8th annual oil bill of 450 rows. Article 4. The phrase "Ministers" in the joke is to be replaced as the Council of Ministers; the end of the joke is to be given to the Turkish Oil Association for Business Licenses that are not acceptable to the Council of Ministers." Add expression; Seven. We offer and propose that the joke be taken out of the article text. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0134par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0133par0110	Here you go, Mr. Sesame. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0135par0113	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, this is one of the important things we've been talking about with this law. Here's the thing: companies that are licensed in oil search leave wells where they get licensed at least 40 years later. In the old law, these abandoned wells were given to TPAO, where TPAO was offering national oil without expense in the wells that he believed were efficient for him. Despite our insistence that this should not be changed in these law talks, the opinion of the government was given in the form of whichever company would give more by bidding instead of giving it to TPAO. We have highlighted that the oil business, which should be in the spirit of this law, is a national business, and that the abandoned licenses should be given to the TPAO, a national representative of the oil-seeking business in Turkey from now on. In that sense, I see today that even though this right opinion has not been accepted by the government in the Commission, I am taking steps to be reinstated by today's motions by the Justice and Development Party. So we were telling the truth. That's right, it's coming to the point of correction here today. That's why I find it so positive, but I want to stress that it's not enough. Why isn't it enough? Because if you don't see TPAO and oil as a national business, and you don't make TPAO a powerful company in the oil search business and other jobs, and you don't make TPAO a powerful company, and that means that if you don't make the oil business a market business, if you're leaving the market dynamics and power, then the market's dynamics and forces will leave TPAO. So we said to this law that TPAO is running the oil business for the state. We wanted it to be written on the item, and unfortunately we didn't make it happen. Dear friends, these are the other flaws we see in this law. This law has a view beyond what I say: We have no power, we have no power, we are not in a position to look for oil in this country; let large companies do the search for oil. So we're not a country looking for oil, we're a country that's abandoned our territory in the search for oil. In the logic of the bill, it has dominated its basic view. We believe that with a national oil policy in this country, the need for the government to get more resources, a more organised strategy and better results in the search for a serious issue of oil. The world's international forces and global forces are looking at it in such a way that the cause of the wars around the world is the turmoil in the Middle East because of the claim to have oil resources and hydrocarbons. Churchill said that the world has come to a point where a drop of oil is more important than a drop of blood. In World War II and World War II, that's the point of view of imperialists. Against those who look at oil like that, we're looking at national oil policy and oil resources.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0136par0116	Churchill told you?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0135par0117	Churchill told me. In this sense, we too must take seriously the understanding of this point that Churchill said. That's our sensitivity to this law. One of our sensitivities is to have an environmental understanding that won't waste national parks. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0137par0121	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the fourth joke of Article 8 of Turkish Petroleum Act No. 450 shall be changed as follows. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends ===Early life=======Early life=======Early life======Early life======Early life======Early life======Early life=======Early life=======Early life======References====External links=== However, before the auction is held, the Ministry will ask the Anonymous Association of Turkish Petroleums in an article to determine whether or not it wants the area as a business license issue. Turkey's Oil Incorporated Association demands no field auctions. The entire or part of the business area, which was originally auctioned, can be removed from the auction with Minister's approval. The owner of the operating license, which was revoked after administrative sanctions, is the owner of oil rights or owners of the same business license, cannot again be entitled to the same business license." Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION Do you agree with the government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0138par0131	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0139par0132	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0137par0133	Please read the reason: Reason: An auction is intended for investors to receive bids on the price to be determined, in order to ensure that the oil reserves, which are available to the country's economy, which is commercially available for operating, are granted by a change in the matter. First, however, it has been envisioned that the debate should be launched if the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership does not want to take the field, with public benefit being asked if it will take the field, before auctioning its business licenses in this way. On the other hand, as with other public services, the necessary regulation was made in the matter, as a preventing the owner of an oil right, which was cancelled as a result of administrative sanctions, to have the same territory again. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four proposals in Article 9; the two proposals are the same, and I will process them together. Now, I'm going to read it in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law. Article 1. We offer and offer to add the following sentence to the joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Kemal Millendereli Mehmet Şeker Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz "In addition to the state stake, in the process of getting a license, the investor states the amount of shares he will offer the state, depending on the R factor, which will be considered with the criteria for giving licenses specified in the Article." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's 9th draft of its 450-order Turkish Petroleum Law. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of Turkish Petroleum Act 450 be removed from the draft text of the 2nd joke. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Mesut Dedeoğlu Cemaletdin Simsek Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 9 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0140par0169	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0141par0170	Levent Enterprises, President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0137par0171	Mr. Corporate, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0142par0173	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're talking about the Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows. Our block opposes all articles on this bill. First of all, this law has a priority. In 2007, President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had to veto the same law. Of course, the basic logic expected to be in the law is to look out for the benefit of the country, the people and the people. President Ahmet Necdet Sezer vetoed it because he didn't see it. In fact, it is said that the law is in accordance with national interests. Of course, if you seek the national interest here by simply putting the word "turk" in the head of the law, you will see no issue. However, in the introduction of this law, all domestic, foreign international monopolys have power, interests, and interests. So it's impossible to see a national interest here. In fact, we're all seeing today what these interests have done to Middle Eastern geography. So it's obvious that behind the boiling witch pot and all this war environment, there's energy resources in the Middle East, that there's a motive to control them, an imperial sharing, a power struggle for international corporations. Unfortunately, the state of Turkey has dragged us into this mess with policies followed by the government. The pipeline agreements and lines, with some licenses, have been dragged into such an unsecured environment. In fact, this process didn't begin with the government. So the disintegration of energy resources and control of these laws began with Kemal Dervis, who made 15 laws in 15 days. In 2001, with the Natural Gas Market Law, this fragmentation process with the Oil Market Law continued in 2003 with privatisation of companies in oil products such as TUPRAS and PETKIM. This privatisation, this marketing, this opening is now headed towards TPAO, and the power of TPAO here is being very clearly weakened and broken down from an integrated facility production to a refinery, distribution to a market. What is the determination of this government, despite the opinions and objections of relevant unions, including PETROL-HI? You say, "What is the work of this government?" Giving multinational companies a search license, facilitating their transactions, bringing exemptions. In fact, this policy comes to our attention every time the government implements it. You'll remember, in the third airport project, I sold those pits for millions of dollars. There's a Minister of Transport who brags about them. In fact, this mentality is the result of a policy that is alienating itself, its country, its people, its nature, its land, its mentality, its sense of all sorts of human values. Here's the same head, same policy that we're dealing with today. At the groundbreaking ceremony of the third bridge, the Canal Istanbul Project appears in the sale of Galataport, investments in Halic, everywhere. Mr. Secretary, the trick is not to reduce the 135-point law to 29 articles. Do you know where it's possible to really think about national interests and the future of the country? It is not by drafting such a law, where water is consumed by 15 per cent more than without control, nor by setting up a law where natural gas sales and pipelines are marketed to people and given permission to search for foreigners, where a concession and exemption is recognised. In the same way, there is no place for the public in a law that provides exemption for the materials they will use in the search, refinery, production, distribution, and the exception of tuition. Therefore, it is impossible to say that a minister who describes the entire mission as a facilitator of investors' affairs, who describes his mission as such, defends the interests of this country. Therefore, we demand that this law be withdrawn. And I propose that the laws that this country needs to uphold the inequality, the unlawfulness. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0143par0183	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of Turkish Petroleum Act 450 be removed from the draft text of the 2nd joke. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends The signatures of the other motion are: Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motions? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOLOGIES, INFORMATION, AND TECHNOLOGY THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMISSION OF THE PRESIDENT Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0144par0195	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0143par0196	Mr. Right, are you going to talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0145par0197	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0143par0198	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0145par0200	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 9 of Law Bill 450. I salute the High Council. Of course, we're fast-tracking this law. In this law, the destruction of Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership, especially in many places, causes huge reactions to both civil society institutions and citizens. True, Turkey's Petroleum Association has served our country for many years, and is an institution that must be strengthened and served at the next stage. However, as far as we can see, this organization seems to be being gradually eliminated. Members of lawmakers, it seems that our country's energy demand is rapidly increasing when we examine the growing demand for energy in our country; this is real. In order to continue our prosperity and economic development, the fact that the growing demand is met in a safe and uninterrupted manner in time, with reasonable costs and conditions, is also vital for the future of our country's energy supply security issue. In energy, of course, when we consider high external dependency, we import almost three quarters of our energy needs. In oil and natural gas, outside dependency is over 90 percent. Unfortunately, our electricity supply security is also threatened because of our natural gas addiction, especially when it is kept in mind that half of our electricity production is covered by natural gas. Our energy import bill is also an important part of our total import and current deficit. Of course, this situation here in oil, given this situation in natural gas, our country, especially in the coming period, has to move rapidly towards alternative energy sources. It is said that carbon dioxide emissions are increasing, as global warming, oil products, are being used in our Turkey. However, global warming is becoming an important problem for our country, as it is for the world. Here, at the point of editing this picture in global warming, alternative energy sources must be transferred. And in this direction, you know, from HES plants to wind plants, to solar power, you have to be heavily supported. Although, right now, hydropower plants in our country are in serious trouble. In many places, unscheduled conservation of nature or, you know, the evaluation of ecological conditions is unfortunately set up by HES plants. Of course, energy is important, but nature there is also very important. See, there are dozens of HES plants over the valley of Yermamak, which pass through our province of Tokat, where I am a MP. The construction of these plants is against our fellow farmers there, many of our people are against it. Of course, let's set up big power plants, there's nothing we can say to them, but it's obvious how the HES plants on the small rivers affected the natural structure in those areas, the living fluorine. Therefore, these plants should not be allowed; those permits given must be reconsidered, and CED reports must be seriously evaluated. In particular, you see, wind energy... in terms of wind energy, that way wind energy should be supported. Although there have been some side effects that they've had recently, but at least the distance of wind roses would be the right source for them to be raised from the ground to higher altitudes, or to be set up elsewhere outside the forest areas, to be set up outside the forest areas, to support these energy systems. But as far as we can see, that's not it either. In terms of solar energy, serious steps must be taken and the state must be supported. And in this way, I want to say that expectations are increasing. Of course, in our country, we need to create new resources in particular. See, in the Turkish world, there is the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Project. This project must be supported and protected by lawmakers. As a result of various studies at this time, the line is not very profitable, but it is a very important project for the great Turkish state, especially for the Turkish nation, because the main feature of this project is the basis and indicator of independence in the Turkish world. At this point, especially Kazakhstan oils, Aktau oils, should be involved in this. Other sources must be put in the middle. That's where TPAO should come in, and the continuation of the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline Project must be continued by increasing and improving its importance. Besides, in the Turkish world, Turkmenistan has natural gas. Turkmenistan says that natural gas must be sent to the West through Turkey and study Turkish natural gas must also be done, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0146par0212	Thank you, Mr. Right. In the provision that regulates the taxation the sector will be subject to, all expenses for the retrieval of the discovered reserves and the establishment of all the facilities needed to produce them can be deducted from revenues obtained under the Tax Usul Act. In this scope, there is no need for further reductions for low-gravity oil, as oil extraction and delivery costs can be returned by the investor with the same regulations as the tax legislation related to the market. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law. Article 1. We offer and offer to add the following sentence to the joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends "In addition to the state stake, in the process of getting a license, the investor states the amount of shares he will offer the state, depending on the R factor, which will be considered with the criteria for giving licenses specified in the Article." Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0147par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0146par0226	Mr. Millerdere, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0148par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 9 of Oil Bill 450. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, after 60 years, we're building a new oil law. This law we're discussing will determine the practices of the next decade. If you're not an oil-rich country, you need to build oil policies on the rights sharing of revenues in order to make the best use of these resources through national security, strategic co-operation point. Dear lawmakers, see, both oil producers and countries dependent on this resource follow different policies under the changing conditions of the day. Now, in the first joke of our 9th article, 1/8 of this law has been determined as a share of the state. This is the same way in the previous law, but the technologies from the law period in 1954 may have been an acceptable rate for that period because of the oil prices at that time, but at the point we're here today, both oil prices are going up to 150 dollars, and there are different assessments of these state shares in the day when research, production technologies are growing a lot. For example, in Mozambique, India, Colombia, Algeria, Azerbaijan, and Azerbaijan -- the value expressed as 12.5 per cent -- is a state stake in the wealth of the oil source. For example, it's interesting, when we started doing research on this issue, I saw that the oil-rich Libyan -- rich Libyan -- has rich resources, but -- oil fields all have different wealth, and the state stock is different when the oil company in Libya comes into the tender. Here, for example, the different app there, the companies that only look for oil and produce it -- yes, there are rich resources in Libya -- they get 8 percent of the Mediterranean, so the state gets 92 percent. Another base gives 28.5 percent of the oil company, which is 72.5% of the state there. So in different geological structures like this, in different positions, in different fields of wealth, different rates are valid. So the ratio that we set at this 1/8-- let's say that tomorrow we find rich oil sources in the Mediterranean, we find rich natural gas deposits, so why shouldn't our country people take advantage of that? So a company that's running into rich resources there, based on its production, can give us 20 percent, 25 percent, so we need to get that flexibility. We think it's really important for next term. If you look around the world, you can see that these rates are up to 80 percent with taxes. Yeah, well, since there's not enough search for the wealth of our oil, we're bringing in a number of incentives to make more calls, but with the approval of our basic proposal, we'll be able to make the most of our resources with the implementation of the R factor, and a proper basis for sharing oil revenues from possible rich beds. I hope our motion will be evaluated by the government officials and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0149par0235	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0150par0236	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit05spe0149par0237	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0149par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Mr. Kemal Millendereli and his friends, given on Article 9 of the bill, was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept the motion... those who reject the motion... the motion has been rejected, and there is enough of it. We will continue the talks of Bill 450. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Reverend lawmakers, I'm going to work on this clause and then I'm going to take a break, and I'm going to get that door locked. There are three motions in the article, and I read them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 3. The addition of the declaration from the DSI and the Ministry of Environment to consider the needs of the region after the statement made against him without violating his rights on his joke, 4. Adding the following statement to the end of the joke, 5. We offer and propose that the statement in the joke and in the national parks be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray of Kemal Millendere Those operating in non-traditional ways are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Environment and the DSI, which prevents their activities from becoming a threat to drinking water. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 10 of the Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows. Number 1 of the unsub's item. In his third joke, the term "three years" has to be changed to "five years" and "five years" (five years). We offer and propose that the article be removed from the text of the article in the national parks. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Mesut Dedeoğlu Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı You have brought Simsek Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 10 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Ibrahim Adjust Zozani to Mounting Property Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0151par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0149par0040	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0152par0041	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0149par0042	Motive. In this article, the law of war is practically run as part of publicisation. Legislature 2942 is 27. The matter may be carried out by the Council of Ministers. In view of the entire matter, the need for national defence or in case of emergency should be applied to this clause. Previously, in HES practices, the government has used this clause in vain. He's even turned over the Council of Ministers by handing it over to the institutions. With the word "water flows, Turkish Bakar," there's no more creeks left for contractors. Where there's a stream, there's a few contractors. Publicization was done according to the rules of war. The mountains of Turkey, where the peace process will shut down and the conflict will end, are asked to pursue international capital owners and oil companies. The villagers will be cut off from their land, and the poor people will have to fight against the oil companies as well as against the HES. The bill is a war against the poor villagers who live in the mountains with this material, the plan to take their land away from them. Ten to prevent new plunders and violent practices. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 10 of the Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows. Number 1 of the unsub's item. In his third joke, the term "three years" has to be changed to "five years" and "five years" (five years). We offer and propose that the article be removed from the text of the article in the national parks. Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends Commission, do you accept? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0153par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0154par0054	You watched Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0149par0055	Mr. Yilmaz, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I swear to God, that was quite a round of applause.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0155par0058	That was an Adana rally. Let those who are jealous be angry.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0149par0059	Yeah. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0156par0061	Mr. President, I have made a motion to make a amendment to Article 10 of Turkish Oil Act No. 450. I salute you all. In Article 5 of Article 5 of the Law on the Forest of 6831, in the area of permit and permit in the forest and in the national parks, you can apply for permission according to the relevant legislation and use it to seek oil and operate by paying the price. Like everywhere else, we're looking at forest areas in all the studies. Now, in this energy, forest areas are one of the most renewable sources. With these, with oil searches, with mining searches, with other permits, the destruction of forests means destroying our renewable energy sources. That's why we demand that this joke be taken off the bill, and we expect your support. Turkey is a country in the midst of world energy reserves with major energy problems. We have serious energy deficit problems. We've been able to import 72% of our energy needs. I mean, we're an energy-dependent country. Earlier, when you were 69 percent in power, the figure rose to 72 per cent and performed increasingly. So you're creating a serious oil law, but you obviously don't have a serious policy, which means that when the Greek Cypriots started looking for oil in the Mediterranean, you had serious problems with Piri Reis. But you don't even have an oil-seeking ship. An oil-seeking ship has just been taken, but as for the ministers, the Prime Minister's office has taken the 7th plane, and is now interested in buying the 8th plane. Next thing you know, the ministers are going to council meetings, the city's groundbreaking ceremonies, private planes, private planes, and they're coming to town. In our Adana, you know, there are planes, but the minister takes a private plane, comes back on a private plane.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0157par0064	C'mon, c'mon...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0156par0065	There's no need to do it! So, instead, seriously, if you're going to make your energy policy right, invest these investments in oil-seeking ships. Now I'll come to the bill on the subject.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0158par0068	That's a lot of talk!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0156par0069	Come talk to the loaded one. Don't talk about it! Don't talk about it! Oil, coal, natural gas, and uranium are 90 percent of the unrenewable energy sources in our world. Current coal reserves will be exhausted in a hundred years, while oil and natural gas reserves will be exhausted in 50 years. The use of biomass specifically in energy production will significantly reduce dependence on oil and coal. 90 percent of the biomass found on Earth is found in forests. Plants have a speciality, such as storing solar energy. The energy stored is resurfaced when plants are burned. Plants are renewable sources of energy that will not be exhausted as long as they exist in the world. This energy source has a separate place in energy forestry under sustainable management. Energy forestry is a method of growing forests in the unit area that aims to be used in energy by producing wood raw materials as soon as possible. Today, many developing countries view bioenergy as the main source of energy in the future. Sweden receives 16 per cent of its energy from the biomass, Austria gets 13 per cent from the biomass, and America gets 4 per cent from the biomass, and it does serious work to increase those rates. The energy forests over 1 million hectares produce about 7 million tons of biomass energy annually. This amount is equivalent to about 30 million barrels of crude oil. As you can see, energy trees are both capable of protecting existing forests and reducing environmental pollution. Our 22 million hectares of forest in our country are about 6 million hectares of ax-sized forests. These areas have three and a half million hectares of broken quality and potential energy forests. So, Turkey is expected to implement nearly 70 per cent of the area for energy forestry. While we were supposed to activate them, I studied the bill in the Law of the Forest, which came to parliament yesterday as a government bill. His 24th article, I assure you, envisions a re-creation of 1 million hectares of forest in Turkey. So the forest is called renewable energy sources; oil is running out, natural gas is running out, but we're staring at the forests. Now -- with the new bill -- it will threaten 1 million hectares... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a bill has come to the agenda of the House. What kind of politics is that? If you don't do these policies right, we can't go through with it. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0159par0078	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 3. Adding "in accordance with permissions from the DSI and the Ministry of Environment to consider the needs of the region" after the statement "without violating its rights on water" in its joke, 4. Adding the following statement to the end of the joke, 5. We offer and propose that the phrase "and national parks" in its joke be removed from the text of matter. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends "Those operating in non-traditional ways are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Environment and the DSI, in case their activities pose a threat to drinking water." Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0160par0090	We disagree, Mr. President. Mr. Çelebi, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0161par0093	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 10th Amendment of the Turkish Oil Act. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. Now, of course, we're discussing an important law. We know that all of the laws we meet are important, but unfortunately, the concept of the nationals is doing its best to destroy the concept of the nationals. Perhaps we are discussing a law that concerns our national concept, our national identity, our national self, but we also see in this Parliament the will given about this law and the arrangements that are being made concerning this law. So far, as opposition, we have expressed our views as the Republican People's Party over and over from this bench, expressing other opposition parties, but nothing has changed. Why do you speak? We're doing it to make a note to history. We're taking promises and talking here to determine how you destroyed history. Otherwise, we know that nothing will change because these votes and wills are a sign that nothing will change. Dear friends, the citizens now say, "What happens when he touches my property, my square, my trees, my water, my land, my home, my seed, my forest, my village, my city, my park?"
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0162par0096	You'll burn!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0161par0097	When he touches you, you'll be burned, you'll be fighting against him, as you say, true! It's either gas bombs or batons or pressured water... the people who put the most democratic actions under pressure in this country. Dear friends, again, about this law, our PETROL-HIS Syndicate, Turkey's architecture and engineering rooms, all institutions connected to them are scientifically... Will you listen to me, Mr. Secretary? If you won't listen, if that's the way it's gonna be, it's not right. It's not right!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0163par0100	You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0164par0101	Address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0161par0102	I'll tell you, I want the Minister to hear it. Therefore, I would like to point out this process in particular: The opinions of those who once again present this process, who want this law to change in the commissions, who come to Parliament and make statements about it, regardless of any of it, I have the power, I have the majority, I have the will, everyone will be subject to that will. Now, I would like to say that while the Chamber of Commerce is posting ads on these boards, here's how we got rid of the IMF, thank you for paying 25 billion, Mr. Prime Minister. These policies are an imposition of capital, international companies, imperialism...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0165par0105	We're done with the IMF, it's over, it's over.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0166par0106	Please don't use words.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0161par0107	You can't bring Turkey anywhere in submission to these compulsions.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0167par0108	You have always opposed the nation, and have always opposed Erbakan.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0161par0109	You can bend down, give up, kneel down, destroy Turkey's values, but there's no looting like that. One day all this will come back and we'll take it back. They're going to tell you to change these laws over and stop breaking this country's national interests one day. One day, the people will ask you to pay for this process, and I say it will save Turkey from that mistake. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0168par0112	The ones on the Billboard are riya and oil. Billboarding, hypocrisy and flattery.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit06spe0169par0113	I'm taking an hour lunch break for the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0169par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 450. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit to your votes the motion of İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi and his friends, given on Article 10 of the bill on the grounds of the 10th article: those who accept the motion... those who do not accept it... are not accepted. There's another motion on matter, I'm having it read...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0170par0007	It's probably because it's forgotten, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0171par0008	Yes, it is!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0170par0009	Since it's forgotten to distribute...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0172par0010	I guess...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0170par0011	I see!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0172par0012	I'm innocent.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0173par0013	You need to file a report. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 10th edition of the Turkish Oil Law Bill, which is currently held at 450 rows. Article 5. We offer and propose that the statement of the article be removed from the text of the article in the joke and in the national parks. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0019	For one thing, first of all, I had nothing to do with it being disbanded.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0175par0020	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0021	I'm innocent, so...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0176par0022	Yeah, yeah, I mean...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0175par0023	It's forgotten to read!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0024	Okay.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0176par0025	Then it entered into our knowledge; it must have been forgotten, perhaps.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0026	Yeah, well, I'll let him know. It wasn't my fault.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0177par0027	Sir, our clerks must be careful!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0028	Yeah. Commission, do you agree? We're joining you, Mr. President. You?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0178par0032	We agree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0033	The government's in on it. It is intended to prevent search and business activities in national parks.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0179par0037	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0038	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to make a decision. Motion accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0180par0040	It's unanimous.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0041	Yes, everyone agreed; agreed.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0181par0042	No, there's one in there who won't admit...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0182par0043	I don't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0044	One person won't accept it. Okay, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0183par0046	The whole House on one side, he on the other!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0047	I submit the clause to your votes within the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are 2 motions in Article 11 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. Article (3). We would like to change the statement of six months to one year. Scholar Light Ali Halaman Erkan Akçay Yusef Halacoğlu Cemalettın Simsek Sumer Oral Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the 450 Numbered Oil Law bill in sight. Article 1. In the first sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the declaration of one month be changed into ten, five days, and three months to five days. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray of Turgay Develi Kemal Millerdere Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0184par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0174par0067	On the motion, Turgay Cameli, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0185par0069	Mr. President, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, speaking on behalf of the BDP, has just challenged all lawmakers, the entire Parliament, in connection with this bill; what are you saying? The power of the Turkish nation is enough to enforce the law, and we can make any law within our borders, and we can make any decision we want. He couldn't say it. What Mr. Hasip Kaplan said was that we give you until November. By November, if you do not turn the process -- obviously there is a negotiation -- into a decision in Parliament, if the government does not implement it, we will not impose this law on you. Renovate the Oil Law as much as you want. In my district, in Şırnak, in the Southeast District, we know the oil reserves, we know the oil that comes out, we want the people who live there to get their share of this oil. As long as the process of peace is not completed by November, we will not impose this law on you unless the government takes steps and results. Mr. Secretary, the government is here, the AK PARTY MPs are here. Now I'm asking: 1) The state of the Republic of Turkey, the National Assembly, has passed this law, and a group says: "We will not enforce this law." Answer this. 2) AK PARTY takes the government from 3 things: one, from a baseball bat. Two, the money that global capital puts in your pocket. Three, from the barrel of the PKK. It seems Mr. Hasip Kaplan knows something, there's a negotiation. We'd all appreciate it if someone would come out here and tell us what this bargain is. Guys, this oil law is a law that global finance dictates to Turkey, and you have to make it happen. Everyone knows that. Later in 1980, in Turkey, these vertical organizational integrated facilities had been sold piece by piece to the governments before you. PETKIM is gone, the oil office is gone, Batman's refinery is gone, now it's time for TPAO. You're going to remove this from the oil point under the name "freedom" and you're just going to keep it in the licensing phase. In a sense, with this new law, you're putting TPAO (TPAO) in front of the world's giants. You know that's not possible. Also, the reasons for this law are valuable lawmakers, grounds for integration into the European Union, grounds for acceding to its acquish. The readers know it's very funny, and our citizens know it's very funny because none of the criteria that the European Union is looking for in its own country when it gives its oil-seeking licenses in its own country were set as a criteria when this law was passed in Turkey. The second important thing is that a global financial relationship: an outside company will come to Turkey, get its license, invest it; when it finds the oil, after a while, it will transfer as much money as it brings in as it brings in as it brings in investment, to its own country, so there is no capital. There is no new capital coming to Turkey. As I finish, I wish you a good evening by saying that I wonder if Mr. Hasip Kaplan will be answered by the government for his threat to this government in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0186par0080	Thank you, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0187par0082	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit07spe0186par0083	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit08spe0186par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 11 of the bill, Mr. Turgay Develi, the Adana MP and his friends voted without sufficient decision. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who don't... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0186par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 11th article of the bill, the decision was not enough in the second vote of Mr. Turgay Develi and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will continue the talks of Bill 450. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. Article (3). We would like to change the statement of six months to one year. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0188par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0186par0016	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0189par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 11 of Turkish Oil Act 450. I salute the grand jury. We want the proposal to be replaced by the six months of the bill text, a year, so we'll extend the deadline for another six months. The reason for the motion is the extension of the process to address some problems that may occur in the application. That's the point of our motion. I submit our motion to the subjects of the High Council and demand support. When I was discussing the general bill, I asked the Minister if the 26th article was necessary, and I asked the Commission for the minutes as the 26th article was discussed. I've stated in the Commission's transcripts that I said, "Mr. Minister, if I may ask you, would you not have used these incentives as the Council of Ministers if this sentence had not been carried out here? I'm telling you in this small way, aren't you going to take advantage of this sector? I say this as an executive unit. Your answer, Mr. Minister, is what are you saying: we were going to make this happen, but I say if there's no difference between putting it and not being put there, why not put it there? Now, if you look at this statement, what part of this do we need to fix? I'm very curious. I mean, if it's not going to be put here, if it's not put there, then why put it there? Why is this government handling this business so informally? I'm really uncomfortable with this. Tomorrow generations will pass, these reports will follow. How are you going to answer that, what are you going to say to this community? Now, for the past few days, I've had some of the AKP's group's deputy friends and some of the AKP's fellow lawmakers read these transcripts. What do you understand, when I say what you think? They say it's a really, really, really unnecessary substance. Now, I've been trying to understand the meaning of this in particular, but I'm having a hard time understanding it. I don't want to go into too much detail, but it's one thing to bring up things that have been waiting so many years in a hurry. What are you doing with a really turned-around bill? You're bringing it up again, okay, you're trying to make the corrections, over. But the deregulation of such a substance really does cause us disappointment, anxiety. Now, I don't want to say much, but are these issues the result of the commitments made to the PKK in Oslo? Is it a result of your lack of a place to land in Iraq? Is it the nature of the solution process? We don't know, but these are the reports from a Minister of the Republic of Turkey. I want you to say, "This is it." Do we need to understand these issues from other countries or from garbage or from the press, things that we don't know how they are, things that aren't expressed to us by the government of the Republic of Turkey? Please, enlighten us. Is that one of the reasons why you didn't go down to Iraq, or is it because of earlier promises? We've asked for the transcripts before the interviews, and here are the reports. What do your AKP Commissioner friends and experienced people and commissioners have here that this clause is unnecessary? They've got statements here. If I'm wrong, please tell me, but if this is the purpose, it will leave you in the hands of the government of the Republic of Turkey for the rest of your life. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0190par0027	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four proposals in Article 12; the two are of the same nature; I process them in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th edition of Turkish Petroleum Act, 450 rows in session. Article (1). We propose that "40 percent of the terms of the article be changed to 55 percent. Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th draft of Turkish Oil Law, 450 rows. Article one of item one. We offer and propose that 40 percent of the terms mentioned in the fifth joke be changed to 55 percent. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar You have brought Simsek Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 450 Rows of Oil Bill 12. Article 1. And two. We offer and propose that their jokes be taken out of the material text. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi of Aytun Çıray Kemal Millenderere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Sadik Fair Zozani Abdullah Levent One of the Computational Estates Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0191par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0192par0061	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0190par0062	Read the reason, please. It is stated that the amount of taxes that oil companies make for oil activity will not exceed 40 per cent of the total amount of taxes that they are charged with paying off the government's share and income tax, unless the transfer is completed in the date of the transaction. With 55% tax, the ceiling will be pulled down, causing tax revenue loss. This clause is being sequestered to the capital and oil companies, which should be used in the interests of the people of Turkey. 12 against the people of Turkey and in favour of capital. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 450 Rows of Oil Bill 12. Article 1. And two. We offer and propose that their jokes be taken out of the material text. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0193par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0190par0074	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0194par0076	Mr. President, we're discussing a bill of law, which has been in effect since 1954, presuming to abolish oil law number 6326. But we haven't seen any signs of national oil policy in this bill. Today, oil, energy play a decisive role in the foreign policy of all countries. Oil and energy are never entrusted to the market. The state certainly has an interactive role, but in Turkey, unfortunately, we have not seen the role of the government of the Republic of Turkey as an interventionist in the state. Dear lawmakers, the material we're discussing, the (1)th and (2)th jokes of the clause we're making, appear to have been edited by people who don't know enough about the matter. If they asked an expert about the subject, they wouldn't edit them like this. The ruling party motion, which is now read, shows that it's really amateurish. The issue now states that the article's (1)th joke of the article:: The total amount of income tax to be paid on behalf of its shareholders and on behalf of its shareholders does not exceed 40 per cent. In Article 6326 on the basis of the oil law, that is 55 per cent. The bill narrowed it down to 40 per cent, and it is now envisioned to be moved back to 55 per cent with the ruling party's motion. Both 55 percent and 40 percent are the wrong ratios. The reason is, I'll explain: Law 6326 came into effect in 1954. Law 1702, which changed the law, also took effect in 1973. In 1973, the law predicted that the sum of these taxes would not exceed 55 per cent. The reason is that by 1980, the tax burden on the profits in Turkey was 73.36 per cent. No one, no foreign investor, would come to Turkey looking for oil in a place where there was 73.36 per cent tax burden on the profits. They needed to be encouraged. Law 1702 also encouraged it by reducing it to 55 percent. That's the logic of that 55 percent ratio. Currently, the tax burden on the profits in Turkey is 34 per cent -- the total corporate tax rate is 20 per cent; the income tax paid after paying 20 per cent tax on the earnings earned, plus 20 per cent of the institutional tax, total burden is 34. If the shareholder of that profit-sharing institution is a foreign institution, the tax burden on the profit share is 32 per cent. Now, the article says that the tax burden, which is 32 percent -- it's actually being organised for foreigners -- or we'll never take the tax burden, which is 34 per cent local, over 40 per cent. So I can pull it up to 40 per cent. The government is sending the message. Now, with the motion, he draws it to 55 per cent, not more than 55 per cent. So we can increase the tax load by 55 percent. If you are 34 per cent of the company, or the company's shareholder is a foreign institution, such as the 1973 arrangement, and you set the tax burden at 32 per cent here as 30 per cent, you're only giving an incentive. I'm not saying we should do this. In Turkey, the tax burden on the dividend is low enough, a tax burden that can be considered low compared to any other country we compete with. There's no need to pull it any lower, but it's 40 percent, 55 percent. To say tax laws -- pardon me -- means not knowing the market. Honestly, I do. What is true is our motion, especially in the second joke, when the profit is distributed, a 5% blockage is made. Again, the sentence is due to ignorance of tax laws. Tomorrow, if the Council of Ministers reduces its blockage rate, we will apply this 5% again because the law says so. There is no regulation authorising the Council of Ministers. Both jokes need to be taken out so that we can make an arrangement in accordance with tax laws. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0195par0082	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th draft of Turkish Oil Law, 450 rows. Article one of item one. We offer and propose that 40 percent of the terms mentioned in the fifth joke be changed to 55 percent. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Now I'm going to read the signatures of the other motion: Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR ORHAN KARASAYER (Hathi), Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0196par0094	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0195par0095	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0197par0096	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0195par0097	Motive... The state share consists of a state share (12.5%) and a total of taxes. Turkey is already the lowest state-owned country compared to other countries in our region. Given the high course of oil prices in recent years, the current implementation and the 40 per cent ceiling (instead of 55% of the new legislation) aims to ensure public interest in maintaining this substance as it would produce a very serious tax loss for state revenues. I'm reading the reason for the other motion: The rates of the Institutions and the Tax Taxes, which have so far been set in relevant tax legislation, have been applied equally for all sectors without discrimination, and the Council of Ministers has been appointed to be the authorities on reducing and increasing those rates. Instead of setting a new limit for the oil industry, it is considered to be more appropriate to reflect the same number in the existing Law (the Law) in order not to set a precedent for other sectors. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0198par0106	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0195par0107	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Değirmendereli, Mr. Special, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Yalçinkaya, Mr. Acar, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Atici, Mr. Öz, Mr. Serter, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Young, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Ağbaba. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the joint motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. I submit the clause to your votes within the accepted framework of motions: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 13 that I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law Article 1. In the last sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "geothermal activities" be changed into "restricted to geothermal processes." Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Kemal Çırmenderelı Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 13 of Turkish Oil Act No. 450. "The exceptions and exemptions predicted in this joke are valid until the end of 2023. This period can be extended for another five years with the Council of Ministers' decision." Adding sentence, 2. In its fifth joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "unregistered and unregistered" be changed to "unwantable" at the end of the joke, prior to the term "General Manager's Office." Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Muharrem Varlı Cemaletin Simsek Mesut Dedeoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0199par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0195par0146	Mr. Buldan, should I have the motive read?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0200par0147	Get him to read the reason.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0195par0148	Read the reason, please. In the consumption of existing oil, the owners of air and sea vehicles are exempted from taxes. Car owners and fuel-needed farmers buy fuel at three times more expensive than aircraft and ship owners. It allows oil companies to import materials, equipment, fuel, land, sea, aircraft, customs and other imported taxes and pictures, including any tax, picture and mortar. The bill envisions various tax exemptions to oil companies, especially in importing tools, equipment and equipment they will use in their activities. It is unacceptable for the government to provide tax advantages to oil companies when the tax on laborers, minimum wage, pensioners, workers, civil servants is evident. The AKP's ruling law further extends with this bill the principle that it provides more tax benefits and tax advantages for the rich than for the poor who are associated with the history of the Republic of Turkey. Thirteen, which only gives capital an advantage. To remove matter from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 1 of Article 13 of the Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows. "The exceptions and exemptions predicted in this joke are valid until the end of 2023. This period can be extended for another five years with the Council of Ministers' decision." Adding sentence, 2. In its fifth joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "unregistered and unregistered" be changed to "unwantable" at the end of the joke, prior to the term "General Manager's Office." Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0201par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0195par0160	Mr. Lightning, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0202par0162	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the amendment motion by the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 13 of the Treaty of Turkish Oil Law 450 under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, with the law brought in, betting on new arrangements for oil search, production, production, transmission, storage, and wholesale sale, the bill aims to ensure that the country's oil resources are quickly brought into the economy in a competitive, transparent, safe, and stable environment for local and foreign investors. In particular, it is impossible for the National Movement Party to object to such a bill, which is intended to be passed as foreign currency, such as $60 billion a year, and to use our national resources more efficiently. Only, our proposals regarding these laws are for the purpose of more efficient and efficient use of our resources. The motion on matter is limited only to those thoughts. Dear MPs, however, the nationalist Movement Party has been cautious about these arrangements because there are arguments such as return to the address and favor behind many laws made by the AK PARTI. As they say, the nationalist Movement Party doesn't trust the AKP. The AKP has been caught red-handed on these issues many times, many of these crimes, and many of these illegalities have been tried to avoid being shut down by law, and even the Constitutional amendments have been applied for. The Justice and Development Party, especially Mr. Prime Minister, has been leading the country into a dark chaos with its social, economic, foreign policy and country security, as well as its undistributable integrity with the nation's country and its nation, every day, conflicting, two-faced, US and EU-guided policies. Although it has been shown strategically that there is no PKK terrorism recently, the statements made by the Prime Minister and the government's circles are a celebration of homes due to an unknown terrorist incident in Reyhanlı district of Hatay. We think the details are being discussed, as if someone else is responsible for the administration of this country, for the security of this country, trying to be overlooked. As no one knows who's coming and going, as our home is particularly turning southeastern border, the PKK terrorist group is also in the process of allegedly withdrawing. Controls of border security forces have been eliminated by illegal orders and our border security has been severely weakened. The National Movement Party, as we all know, has filed a criminal complaint regarding the illegalities committed during this withdrawal. So we say, no doubt the government is responsible for this so-called withdrawal process and the events of Hatay Reyhan. The government also loses confidence in the public. Regarding this process of dissolution, the government betrays its votes. The government's tides and the Prime Minister's denial of what the Prime Minister said tomorrow, video footage found on the Internet in the form of one Prime Minister, two Erdogans. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we believe it is necessary to facilitate the conditions for the private sector's search for oil in Turkey, while Turkey's Oil Association's search for oil is not interrupted, and Turkey's Petroleums Association can compete with the private sector. Our motion on the matter should also be assessed in this framework, and we expect your support for our motion. On this occasion, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0203par0168	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law Article 1. In the last sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "geothermal activities" be changed into "restricted to geothermal processes." Salaamtin Karaahmetoglu (Greesun) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0204par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0203par0178	Mr. Karaahmetoglu, please come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0205par0180	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the Turkish Oil Law bill. I salute you all. I'd like to start with the echoes of the word change in the world. If change is a dialectic change, there's nothing to criticize from my point of view, but if change has become part of a perception management that global powers, global capital, want to create with agitation and propaganda, then there is a problem, and today the power in our country, unfortunately, has perceived change as getting where global powers want to go. In this sense, the laws, regulations that have been passed in the Grand National Assembly so far, are based on the demands of global powers, global capital, just like the oil law we're talking about today. In this sense, Petroleum Act No. 6326 was adopted in 1954, and Turkish Petroleum Association was established, and this partnership would be established -- which would be out of commission, with the votes of the numerical majority, which would be out of commission, and would be limited to oil, natural gas exploration, drilling and production. In contrast, in many countries, public businesses in the oil sector continue to exist and protect integrated structures, while our main energy source is the oil industry, the TPAO (TPAO), which is to be disabled without any sectoral planning, without the interest of our country being taken care of. The oil produced in our country will also be abandoned by the country's implementation and taxation. We're witnessing an international struggle between the forces that want to take control of world oil and natural gas sources, leading to the use of military power. Many countries are involved in international competition with their own public companies. We doubt that the AKP ruling our country intends to be in this race. The work conducted in the Mediterranean to investigate oil and gas ended in failure with misguided foreign policies. 16 islands belonging to the Republic of Turkey have been virtually occupied by Greece, where Greek flags are waving around, where Greek soldiers check passports for our citizens, where the Greek Cypriot administration is trying to hide from the public how our country's 7,000 squarekm of continents and the economic region of our country is occupied gradually. You can include oil and gas search in our territory and successful results in our international foreign policy victory as a ring. A total of 16 islands, 11 islands in the Aegean Sea, under the rule of the Republic of Turkey, and 5 islands in the Mediterranean, were occupied by Greece. The invasion of the islands was ignored in return for Greece and the Greek Cypriot administration's failure to veto our country, while Turkey's start date for negotiations in the EU was taken on 17 December 2004. On 17 February 2003, the Greek Cypriot administration signed an exclusive economic regional limitation agreement with Egypt. The same agreement was made with Lebanon in 2007. The Greek governing Parliament adopted a law on January 26, 2007, declaring 13 oil-seeking licenses within its borders with Egypt and Lebanon. However, the Greek administration has declared that the territory is located within the continent of our country. In this way, the Greek Cypriot administration occupied 7,000 square kilometers of the Turkish continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone. Again, Turkey has rented oil and natural gas to Egypt in its exclusive economic zone with the Turkish continent. The Greek Cypriot administration... I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0206par0187	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 14 that I read and process in order: To the presidency of TBM, It's the 14th of the 450 Rows of the Numbered Bill of Law. Article (4). We would like to add a statement that will be taken out in the first place. Scholar Light Erkan Eçeky Ali Halaman Yusef Halaçoğlu Sumer Oral Reşat Right Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law. Article 3. Adding the following statement to come after the first sentence of the joke, 4. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek "The exchange of oil allowed for exports is registered as a receipt for the owner's legal ledger of oil rights in exchange for the Turkish lira in the date of exports." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th of the 450 Rows of the Numbered Bill of Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0207par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0206par0215	Read the reason, please. 14. Under the clause, foreign companies have been allowed to transfer their import capital abroad through foreign currency and transfer date currency, excluding the state's shares from institutions and income taxes, except the state's share. The 14th, which facilitates capital and profit transfers for foreign investments. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th draft of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law. Article 3. Adding the following statement to come after the first sentence of the joke, 4. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends "The exchange of oil allowed for exports is registered as a receipt for the owner's legal ledger of oil rights in exchange for the Turkish lira in the date of exports." Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0208par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0206par0229	Mr. Hamzacebi, who will speak?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0209par0230	Bulent Kuşoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0206par0231	Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0210par0233	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 14th amendment, titled "Transfers" of Turkish Oil Act 450. My respects to all of you. My dear friends, you know, he came back from the President a few years ago, this is the Oil Act. There was a reason I didn't prepare it very well, there was a reason why it didn't reflect our national sensitivities. Now, in this 14th article, I see it very clearly. In the Turkish Petroleum Law, in our earlier Petroleum Law, there is a clause called "Transfers" (also known as "Transfers"). At the time of the Law on Maintaining the Value of Turkish Money, decision 32 was made very tightly in the period when the transfers from abroad, foreign exchanges, or other foreign investors in Turkey, such as capital, equipment, materials and so on. And then, if there was a profit in this, if there was a profit in the oil search, there would be a transfer, a transfer of the equity. These were studied, investigated, and transferred by the Treasury Department based on their review reports. Now, this stuff is from there. In fact, there's no need for such a substance, at least in this way, that it can be applied in a very different way today, but it's obviously not sensitive enough that it's in the past law, and it's taken here in a similar way, but mistakes have been made. Look, it says here that the imports, cash funds, and other economic value of oil transactions... are not defined among the definitions of any of them, Mr. Minister. No such description. You don't know what economic values are. What are the economic values brought in? The registration will be conducted by the General Manager. It's not in the definitions. Other than the amount required for the state's share to be paid later, the value of economics, including cash funds and other capital assets, can be transferred out of cash or, in effect, tax-free. Well, who will make the determination, which is unclear. It's always been neglected. Now, when brought in, he says he can transfer the equity, the material for the equity, the profit for the equity. So, who's going to allow this transfer? There are financial advisors among you -- can this transfer be made without being identified? There's nothing here about that. See, the (2)th joke says that he can transfer his net values again at the end of the three-month period during the current year. Who's going to determine how much their net worth is? There's no verdict on that again. These were in the past app, but look, they were left incomplete here. Again, in the fourth joke, the procedure and the basis for the allocation of the right-hand owner's income, the request for transfer, and the foreign foreign currency is organised by regulations, according to the fourth joke. Well, why don't we at least put it in the law as a title? How will it be regulated? Whether this can be done by the government, by the inspectors, or by an YMM, is not even clear. For him, this matter, in particular, needs to be rearranged. It'll be transferred, brought home, oil-seeking, funding related to oil-seeking companies, the detection of materials will be made by someone in charge so that the relevant directorate can register it, otherwise it's impossible to register it. Then they need to be identified in the extraction, in the transfer of profits, in the transfer of equity, and in the transfer of relevant materials. This substance means nothing after they're not done. I'm afraid he's been taken here by heart without proper study. It's a mistake, and I'm warning you right now. I wish you all the best of this occasion, and good evening.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0211par0242	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. To the presidency of TBM, It's the 14th of the 450 Rows of the Numbered Bill of Law. Article (4). We would like to add a statement that will be taken out in the first place. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0212par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0211par0252	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0213par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from you regarding the motion we made on Article 14 of the 450th Amendment. I salute the High Council. Congressmans, of course, we're making a law very quickly. In fact, each of the articles of this law must be thoroughly studied, discussed, explained, removed after that, but again, as a classic of the Justice and Development Party, they have now made it a tradition of themselves -- unfortunately, you have brought it -- with every bill in its form, using an expression until it is finished, unfortunately, with a little bit of force in the House. But we think that if these laws could be discussed better or taken with many views, it would be better removed or taken out in the interest of our nation. This law will be the same. I guess in the next time period, again, the shortcomings will be placed inside a bag of laws, and with that bag of law, the shortcomings will be tried to be restored. Members of parliament, there are very serious public opposition to some parts of this law. NGOs respond in a very serious sense about privatisation, especially in the removal of the word Turkish Oil Anonymous. There's a fact that there's also a saying that this law comes at this speed, as if it's in accordance with the wishes of global financial centers. Hence, a law that needs to be considered multi-directional is being brought here quickly. Members of parliament, Turkey is a country with major energy problems in the midst of the world's energy reserves. We have a serious energy deficit. Even though we're covering this with imports, we're also facing significant energy supply security issues, unfortunately. In order to properly evaluate this bill that has come before us, the government must also be debated whether there is a true and serious energy policy. Of course, we also think that it should be considered together what a single government has been doing for the past 11 years. Our country imports 72% of its energy needs. This addiction was around 70 percent in 2002, but the result is that addiction is not diminishing, and it is constantly increasing. Another indicator confirming this negative departure is the increase in energy consumption of 43 million tonnes of oil from 2002-2012, while domestic production is only about 7 million tonnes. Of course, given these, we're obliged to make an assessment of the situation. A country has several ways to solve its energy demand. These are, in turn, the first to meet the need from their own resources, as in countries with rich energy sources, which is that we have no chance of meeting from our own resources, at least not in oil. The second is that, with national, large oil companies, they are brought to our country from the point of meeting the needs of oil that they obtain during their search in other areas. The third is to meet the need with the proper economic policies and developed economic structures -- whether he has a reservation or not -- without opening the deal, with imports. In which of these, it is necessary to ask which one of them has distanced that way and has succeeded. When we look at it from this angle, it will be necessary to look at which of these three solutions this bill highlights and which one it provides a solution to, and in that regard, it will have to be evaluated. So when we look at it from this point of view, we also have doubts that the next law will seriously solve Turkey's energy deficit. Here's the thing: creating new sources of energy needs to be created. Maybe we're an oil-poor country, but with solar energy or wind energy with it again, it must be remembered that there are also very important resources in our country at the hees. Recently, however, the problems of HES (e.g., HES) in particular have been brought up in a very serious sense, including our own regions. In particular, many HES plants have been established in that area, covering the Kelkit Valley, starting with Amassian. However, there are serious reactions to these HES plants in society. So the energy sources from HES plants, particularly on small rivers or streams, are preventing the destruction there? See, there are thousands of trees in the region of Niksar, and Reshadia, and Kollhisar, and there we build a HES plant. So there's forest looting, forest destruction. After all, these should not be done. Other sources of energy can be created, solar power supported, wind power supported. While they're being supported, you're the one who broke down the special fluorine and the global climate. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0214par0267	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 15 that I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 15th draft of Turkish Oil Law, 450 rows. Article 1 of the pearl. We offer and propose that the statement of the six months and six months be changed from three months to three months. Scholar Light OktayVural Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Cemalettin Simsek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. We offer and propose the addition of the following joke to the article. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Doğan Şafah Kemal Millendereli The oil-righted Geophysical Engineer, Geological Engineer and Petroleum Engineer must employ. Geophysics, Geology, Petroleum Engineers, who are not a citizen of the Turkish Republic, employs at least twice the number of citizens of the Republic of Turkey, Geophysics, Geology, Petroleum Engineers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0215par0295	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0214par0296	Read the reason, please. This clause in the draft law and the tax reduction to foreign companies are also intended to provide additional advantages for employing foreign personnel in addition to many advantages, such as capital transfers. One of the things that gives extreme flexibility to strangers is the 15th. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. We offer and propose the addition of the following joke to the article. Doğan Gündüz (April) and his friends The oil-righted Geophysical Engineer, Geological Engineer and Petroleum Engineer must employ. Geophysics, Geology, Petroleum Engineers, who are not a citizen of the Turkish Republic, employs at least twice the number of citizens of the Republic of Turkey, Geophysics, Geology, Petroleum Engineers. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0216par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0217par0309	Mr. Born Dawn...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0214par0310	Mr. Dawn, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0218par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 15 of Article 450 of the Oil Act. Here, me, today, in oil and energy sources, in history, I'm going to talk about the tricks that have been going on in our geography. Dear friends, it is wise to know that 57 percent of the world's oil reserves are in the Middle East, how political powers are designed in this region to shed light on future generations, what laws and injustices are imposed on them, and how our country is affected by their policies. Dear friends, the nationalist leader of Iran, Mohammed Musadddik, presented a bill to the Iranian Parliament in December 1944, banning oil negotiations with foreign countries. After long efforts and struggles, the Iranian Parliament agreed to state Iranian oil in compensation on April 28, 1951. In August 1953, the foreign forces brought down Musadddik (Mosaduk) and brought the Shah Riza Pehlevi (Pehlevi). As soon as he arrived, he cancelled economic sanctions and laws imposed by Moses. During this period, for 25 years, some Western countries again gained privileges in Iranian oil. After the 1973 oil crisis, the king of Iran decided to invest in nuclear energy. When the Shah Pehlevi returned to fulfill an old dream, by 1978, Iran had the largest nuclear power program in the world between the fourth and third world countries. In 1977, Iran, which was worth 19 billion German marks, and London and Washington, which made four reactor deals with the German company, and were uncomfortable with it, launched the Lewis Plan, which was released at the Austrian Bilderberg meeting in May 1979. The plan was to support the Muslim Brothers' Movement, which would keep the Khomeini in line with tribes and sects behind the Middle East. The British Islamic expert Lewis was to spread a crisis broadcast to the region, to encourage such autonomous groups as the West, Kurds, Armenians, Azerbaijans, Lebanese Marunis, Ethiopia Kropti, Shiites, Sunnis, Alevis, and Muslim communities in the Soviet Union. In February 1979, Khomeini was flown to Tehran to establish a oppressive religious state to replace the king's rule. In May 1979, the storm broke, and Iran's Khomeini regime cancelled its nuclear energy programme with the Germans and the French. A similar incident occurred in 1974 in Pakistan. Responding to the oil shock with a small-scale nuclear energy programme launched earlier, Butto concluded his project with the French in 1976, when Henry Kissenger made accusations that Pakistan was on the way to obtain nuclear weapons, and was struck down by a coup led by Ziya ul Hak. Thus, the Pakistani nuclear energy program was taken down. In the same area in 1990, Saddam Hussein called on the Arabs to join forces on oil in a meeting of the Arab Business Council in Jordan. Right after that, the Americans had Kuwait and Saudis lower their oil prices first. Iraq, which owes 65 billion dollars, began to tense up with Kuwait. The Americans sent the U.S.-Iraq Business Council to privatise the oil for the construction of Saddam So oil prices went down to $13 per barrel, then $11. Gillespie, the Iraqi Ambassador to Iraq, who came to Iraq to discuss tension between Iraq and Kuwait, has set Saddam up in a war between the Arabs. During the coming process, great forces seized Iraqi oil. Today, Iraq-Suriye-Iran-Turkey, it is political purity to consider the developments on the Afghanistan line independently. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0219par0323	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0220par0324	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit09spe0219par0325	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0219par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 112th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the 15th article of the bill, Mr. Doğan Şaş and his friends' motion to vote was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will continue the talks of Bill 450. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows. Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose that the statement of the six months and six months be changed from three months to three months. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0221par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0219par0015	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0222par0017	Thank you. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, our motion on the Turkish Oil Act, to prevent illegal work, are clear and clear. In this regard, the adoption of this motion is important for employees to prevent off-the-books work. We've had some talks about energy, and I'd like to make an assessment of them on this occasion. In fact, energy really is an ancient paradigm of international power formation. Energy security has been the most important basis for major strategies. Thus, countries that have power within the international power equation and countries that want to ensure energy security have implemented large, macro strategies, economic, military and political strategies. The increasing decline of oil and natural gas has actually transformed these resources into vital assets for countries who are dependent on energy safety. Now, in terms of oil and natural gas, which is a vital asset to a country, it is very clear that large strategies in economic, social and other political sense are a playground. Here's the fundamental paradigm, the parameter, that's actually underneath the formation of our close geography a hundred years ago, while this is the playground. And we can't look at today's developments by abstracting them from the energy dimension. In that sense, we're discussing the Turkish Oil Law here, but really, energy policies are one of the most important elements of the project created under this Great Middle East Project. One element is the security of energy, and the other is the security of Israel. In this regard, the events that took place in Iraq and Syria today, the developments in the Arab world, are not possible to be tested without the energy dimension taken into account. So, in this way, the big strategy for energy has changed in 1991 when Iraq invaded Kuwait. Until then, energy had been in the forefront of the security of trade routes, but when a direct threat to the source became a threat to the source, the question began to be asked, "How are we going to eliminate the threat in the source?" In this regard, from that time on, the Big Middle East Project was designed to form appropriate political environments in energy-rich areas. This is how to ensure that the energy rich regions themselves are accessible, controlable regions that are underlying the policy around the Arab Spring, or the democracy, or other concepts. In this regard, the second part of this strategy is also that these energy sources are being introduced into company inventory rather than into the country's inventory. So these assets now in corporate inventory can be easily used as an intervention area for external forces. In the construction of the Iraqi Constitution, the conflict between the northern regional government in Iraq and Iraq is also based on an energy-based dispute. In this regard, we are not supposed to evaluate the events of this geography by cleansing it. The BDP MP's speech just now is, frankly, a confession of how global imperialism wants to create a Kurdish problem in Turkey and create appropriate political environments for them in appropriate geography. In that sense, when you think about government, especially Iraqi energy sources, Iraqis, Syrian energy sources in Syria, and the fact that this should be shared by the Syrian regions, and also to make a separate energy agreement with the north of Iraq, then to the pipelines, that ancient strategy will bring Turkey to its destination. In this regard, these events need to be evaluated to the future. Your actions will surely cost Turkey a price. Those who shape the world for energy do not hesitate to shape Turkey for energy security. In this regard, I wanted to express it here on this occasion, especially when the government carefully follows these steps on energy policies and thinks that improvements may pose a threat to Turkey's security. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0223par0028	Thank you, Mr. Vural. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in the 16th article, which I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 16 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law bill in question. Article 1. We offer and propose that the statement in his joke be changed in terms of natural disasters and the state of war. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Orhan Sülçere of Kemal Millendere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 16 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0224par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0223par0048	Read the reason, please. With this clause in the bill, the 6326 Law of Number 122. Article 16 of the bill, which is considered a natural disaster, war, rebellion. In the matter, it was considered a natural disaster or a state of war, and it was issued a declaration of Islam. 122 of the 6326 Numbered Law. 16 on the bill with the same goal as the article. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 16 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law bill in question. Article 1. We offer and propose that the statement in his joke be changed in terms of natural disasters and the state of war. Kemal Millenderelı (Edirne) and his friends Does the commission agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0225par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0223par0060	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0226par0061	Mr. Orhan Slept.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0223par0062	Mr. Straight, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0227par0064	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on the Turkish Oil Law bill. On this occasion, I salute you all. Yes, my dear friends, we've been told that the training we've received so far, there's no oil in Turkey or that this oil is not operational. But after seeing this bill, I realized that there is serious oil in Turkey, and there is oil worth operating. Why do I say that, my dear friends? Because with this bill, Turkey is being thrown out of Turkish oil, TPAO is being completely disabled, reduced to about 2%. You can look for oil everywhere. This bill, my friends say. I mean, if someone says tomorrow that I found oil under the House, they're going to come and dig it up. There's not even a limitation on it. Now, of course, when that happens -- as I said -- I now believe there's oil in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0228par0066	Subjects...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0227par0067	Well, you can explain, Congressman. Maybe we're a little hard to understand. My dear friends -- as I said -- there are no field limits; the time is fifty years. We don't know where to look for oil, we don't know what to do. Now, when that happens, we really need to ask ourselves, what do we want to do? Indeed, in the coming period, it will likely be referred to as Parliament, which has given the oil of Turkey to someone else. Unfortunately, we now know that the large oil companies have shed a lot of blood in Libya; in Iraq, they have also shed a lot of blood into the oils of Iraq. The war is already under way in Syria. They wanted to lower the cost in Turkey, and I think they want to seize Turkey's oil with our raise. Now, when my dear friends called -- you know -- the Republic of Southern Cyprus found oil in the Mediterranean. We were going to look for oil, where we sent Piri Reis. Piri Reis was never heard from again. We don't know where Piri Reis is or what he's doing. The Greeks and Israel produced oil, and they started selling it to the European Union. Let's see, if we have an oil-seeking ship, I think we'll probably start looking for it, too. Again, my dear friends, we all now know Piri Reis won't be able to find oil, but we all know how to take care of our own oil, how to do it, and I think we should talk about it with great sincerity here, because in the end, we all know about Turkey's energy addiction. In that sense, I think it would be in this country's best interest if the High Assembly had a more accurate approach. The 16th article, which I have been promised, states: In the case of war and natural disasters, we must preserve the rights of those seeking oil. It gives them assurances. But what's interesting here is that the previous bill also said that there was a sign here, but for whatever reason the word "rebellious" was removed. So there's nothing wrong with looking for oil in areas where there are riots in Turkey. And I think you all understand what's being done here, and I don't want to get into that. And on this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0229par0074	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 17 that I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the 450 Terms Numbered Oil Law. Article 1. We propose and supply that the joke be changed in the form of ten to five days. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Mahmoud Tanal of Aytun Çıray Kemal Millendere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the tardiness be added before the declaration of the 17th article of Turkish Petroleum Law in 450 rows. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Muharrem Varlı Cemalettın Simsek Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Mehmet Şandir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 17 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0230par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0229par0102	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not cover public and state benefits because of the monopoly on licenses, the removal of export restrictions on raw oil, the removal of restrictions on the activities of foreign-controlled companies, the incentive and ease of domestic and foreign capital, the removal of TPAO's priorities and privileges and regulations to reduce the state's initiative in energy policies. 17. While the item aims to exchange opinions among public institutions, it must be removed from the draft text, since it will serve the purposes mentioned above as a whole. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the tardiness be added before the declaration of the 17th article of Turkish Petroleum Law in 450 rows. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0231par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0229par0114	Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0232par0116	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. When I was called to the bench, I counted how many articles this law should be, and I counted up to 145, dear friends, and it's still going on. Normally, when the law-making technique is studied in terms of law-making technique, this law is a very basic law, the Turkish Oil Law. So, you're talking as the basic law, and you're putting a lot of stuff together, compressing a lot of things like this that are so concentrated that there's no discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at it now, it's very upsetting, of course, that you're taking responsibility by raising your hand and lowering your hand, taking responsibility for historical responsibility, but believe me, we don't realize much what we're voting for, and you don't, and neither do we. Please, if you look at it this way, I want to say this first: how far did you bring Mr. Minister, Mr. Laws and Decisions, to the Commissioner (z) -- to the end of the joke, to the end, to the end of the substrates of the (z) after that, to the end of the substrates of the substrates of the substrates of the substrate? So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 is finished, then the letter is finished, and then you materialize the matter by bringing both letters together. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're not watching the press today, we're not watching TV, we're not talking to the public, we're talking to you. Look, there's such a commitment to the drafting of this law, to the commission, and to the writing of it, that there's such a special condition that we have to think about from here: it's not an innocent law, it's a valuable law. This law is never an innocent law in terms of the future of our country. I'm not speaking with anyone, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Commissioner, Mr. Government, but as for the results of this law, we are obliged to predict the issues that Mr. Oktay Vural has just taken into consideration. What you're calling oil is an event, an event, a substance, a value that is based on the balance of the world, over the world's wars, where the world is defined by this precision. Now, what we're doing is, after 50, 60 years, we're creating a new oil law, and as I said, we're going to pass a law that should probably be 200 points under two main topics, two basic chapters without negotiating. Dear friends, you shouldn't talk too long. Mr. Oktay Vural has given the reason for this law. Look, I'm going to point out that before that, you've made two laws here. From now on, we'll follow you with this precision. First of all, you passed a law on State Railways, then you passed a law on PTT. Somewhere, a decision was made, valuable deputies, a program was made. You are now making fundamental changes that change the law of the sovereign state of Turkey. Each one of these... and now you're making a new amendment that will legalize the law of TPAO, privatisation, and you're writing yourself in this change, you're saying:: providing convenience for capital and profit transfers for foreign investors, investment reductions and tax exemptions. This can't be your decision, precious MPs. This is the decision of global powers, global projects. I don't want to call you "tashion" by global forces who want to control this area, but they're trying to establish a law at your initiative. For him, we, the National Movement Party, do not view this law as an innocent law, but as a law with many threats and dangers to the future of our nation and our country, and therefore with all our precision... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we've made the necessary contribution, we've made the warnings, we've made the reviews, it's up to you now, it's up to you. I leave you with your own conscience, your historical responsibility. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0233par0126	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the 450 Terms Numbered Oil Law. Article 1. We propose and supply that the joke be changed in the form of ten to five days. Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0234par0135	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0233par0136	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0235par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, before we begin to talk about this matter, dear friends, we came to read a book published by our national oil trial, Turkish Law Agency, but I'm fortunate to have at least one issue, Mr. Energy Minister, an electrical engineer. It's better if the Secretary of Defense is here. In what way? At least oil helps strategically. What is it? Even though it's not written on the basis of the oil law, as lawyers, we say that the definition of this motive is that of the opponent, it means: One: Sir, the Republic of Turkey cannot seek oil; it is the foreign companies who fail but can do so. That is the first meaning of this. The second meaning is that foreign companies that are coming to our home... are soon going to find the need for our country's oil through these foreign companies. Article 9 (10) of Article 9... Mr. Secretary, if you're listening, I'll talk to you or I'll let you go. I'm sorry. Now, what are we doing with the oil here? Sir, we're leaving 1/8 in Turkey. 1/8 is in Turkey, (1) is the third joke. (10) We are looking at the tenth joke, which is paid in the same way as the ministry's proposal. What does that mean? The main thing is to pay for it, but the oil he needs is if the ministry demands it, he can be released. Now, really, this is no different than capitalization. Maybe it's a heavy criticism. You'll say it's a really heavy criticism. What does Article 168 of our Constitution say? The government owns the operating of underground resources. It belongs to the government, and it can be arranged by law. Yeah, you're doing it with the law. All of these discussions were held in 1954 -- fifty-nine years ago -- for that day. Well, if that's the way we are, it's comfortable... what does the Constitution say in the beginning? It's a national benefit. There are criteria for national interest. Mr. National Defence Minister remembers very well that when Turkey was embargoed in the 1973-1974 Cyprus War, Turkey could not find the oil to fly its planes. What did he do then? Of course, Gaddafi ran to help at that time, and the end of Gaddafi is obvious, and I will not go there. So I'd like to say that in strategically important issues, it's strategically damaging to attracting private companies. Oil, of course, first of all... what's Italy doing? As far as I know, it's being nationalized, Mr. Secretary. So while some countries are nationalizing oil-related energy, we're completely selling it. What does Syria, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia do? It leaves the state 75 per cent of its production share. How much do we leave? We're leaving 1/8, which is not acceptable. This is, of course, the release of our underground resources to foreign companies, and at the same time, the government, sir, is a failure at this, the government can't do it, only foreign companies can. Adeta, we have a complex in this regard. Well, there are so many schools of oil engineering in Turkey, Turkey has had Turkish Oil for years, Turkey has had the Institute for Mine Study. Well, it's not acceptable for us to go after foreign companies when we have such quality, qualified staff, when we have staff. More than that, we're giving you the right to own property without limiting the locations of foreign companies' oil fields. That's a whole other danger. I refer you first to God, then to the Turkish nation. I hope we don't end up miserable. I salute you all, and I bid you good evening.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0236par0152	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three proposals in Article 18; I read them and process them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 18th edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and propose that the phrase "thirty days" after the "submitter and residential changes" mentioned in the joke be changed into "fifteen days." Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Kemal Uður Bayraktutan of Milldere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declarations of Turkish Petroleum Act 450 shall be changed by more than 45 days in the 2nd article of Article 18 of the 18th Amendment. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 18 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0237par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0236par0180	I'm having it read. The bill does not care for public and state benefits because of the monopoly on licenses, the removal of export restrictions on raw oil, the removal of restrictions on the activities of foreign-controlled companies, the incentive and ease of domestic and foreign capital, the removal of TPAO's priorities and privileges and provisions to reduce the state's initiative in energy policies. 18. However, the item carries the notification title, it must be removed from the draft text, since it will serve the purposes mentioned above as a whole. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declarations of Turkish Petroleum Act 450 shall be changed by more than 45 days in the 2nd article of Article 18 of the 18th Amendment. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0238par0191	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0236par0192	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0239par0193	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0236par0194	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to prevent time constraints that can be encountered in the application. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 18th edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and propose that the phrase "thirty days" after the "submitter and residential changes" mentioned in the joke be changed into "fifteen days." Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0240par0207	Mr. Ugur Flagtutan.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0236par0208	Mr. Flagtutan, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0241par0210	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion on Article 18 of the Turkish Oil Law, number 450. I salute your high council. I'll talk to Artvin again tonight, we've captured the Minister. Now, Minister, we've spoken here many times before. There's a Cerattepe mining tender in Artvin County. Every time I catch you, I'll talk about it, see who's right. I told you before, we'll talk again tonight. In the tender held in February 2012 -- especially if the lawmakers at Justice and Development Party listen carefully -- dear friends, I gave 10 speeches at this Turkish Grand National Assembly about how this tender describes one firm, and I said:.............. the production of 500,000 tonnes and 10,000 tons of metal per year, according to the 8th article of this tender, the contract says that the production of this tender is mandatory after my very dear friends are allowed to operate within three years, and the production of this tender begins to produce within ten years. Just below, the amount of metal copper mentioned above by the winner must be produced at a facility in the country. If this commitment is not fulfilled, the entire commitment guarantee will be recorded. My dear friends say so. So he's saying that this company... is the only one that describes the company. I've had some second thoughts about that, too. They came to me as a congressman before the tender was made -- Dear Minister, if you listen carefully -- they said: "This tender describes only one firm, there is one firm in Turkey. I said there is no such thing as a lawyer. Look, listen carefully, my dear friends. How many such companies are there? I'm telling Mr. Minister's response to the question I'm asking him, he said: "As of February 16, 2012, there are one facilities in Turkey, which is actively producing bloster copper. Do you see the coincidence, my dear friends? There's $10 million involved. Blister copper production of the meat is located within the central borders of Samsun Province.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0242par0215	Whose is it?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0241par0216	I've asked the Minister many times. I said: Mr. Minister, the firm that received this tender describes only one company, but it has to be bought by someone who is connected to this company or this company. I said that. My wife is a notary, I'll have her notarized. I said. After that, my dear friends, this firm didn't take the contract. And the Minister said, "You're wrong." Is that so? You said: "Artvin MP was wrong." I gave a speech from here to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I brought my transcripts. I said: I am speaking to you in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the temple of this Ataturk. I said, Mr. Minister. Now, he didn't take this contract, the other firm did, so you say so, according to the official records here. You know that company and the other firm have partnerships in other provinces, don't you? I don't want to say your name. Now I'm telling you from here, where will this company run this mine? I asked the Minister, where will he run it? I asked this company once again, "Where will he run this mine? If you're right, I'm wrong as a congressman. If you're right, I'll apologize to this Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to all Turkey, and to Artvin. And the minister said, "I was right." Is that so, Mr. Secretary? If you listen carefully, Mr. Secretary, you were right, I was wrong. He said so himself. He said: look, he didn't buy the contract. Another firm took the contract. He said. Now, Mr. Secretary, look, I brought the local papers from Artvin. The one next to you probably has a lot of work to do, so if you listen carefully, it's probably more important than the gentleman next to you. Look, Mr. Secretary, I'll frame this paper for you tomorrow. It was published in the local newspapers in Artvin. Look, dear lawmakers, can this be happening? Is that even possible? If they told me, I wouldn't believe it.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0243par0218	Who, who?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0244par0219	What does it say?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0241par0220	Look, what's he saying? I'm reading this out loud, I'll frame it and send it to you tomorrow. Let's see if I'm wrong or you're wrong. I give you an open call from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It says here: "Look, Mr. Secretary, do you see the nerve of these men to be employed at the Artvin Cerattepe Project?" It says: "Eti Bakır İş Artvin Ceratettepe Project will be recruited into the following staffs to be employed. " My dear friends, valued lawmakers, do you know that there is one definition in the Turkish Penal Code, even two, they say: "Don't abuse the mission, don't mix the tender. Now, I'm speaking to the Minister from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: let's discuss the television channel you want, in private, on the television channel that you will select. If I'm wrong, if I don't give up this congressman's identity, I'm a dirty son of a bitch. (HPP) Look, I'm also speaking to the AKP Group, obviously. I'll discuss it with you alone on the television station you asked for. Do you realize what you've done to Artvin? Do you realize what you've done to Artvin? I can't say anything else. You thrust a dagger into Artvin's heart. I thank you. That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0245par0224	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 19 there are two motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 19 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law Bill. Article 6. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesam Kemal of Millendere Mahmoud Tanal Kamer Young Sakine Self-Free Special 'The data obtained from oil transactions by the General Manager is preserved, presented to the interested, and their income from promotion and marketing is deposited into the Ministry's central accounting unit for the registration of revenues in the general budget." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On Article 19 of Turkish Oil Act 450, we propose and propose that the following joke be added as a 7th joke. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Mesut Dedeoğlu Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay (7) According to State Officers Act No. 657 in the Ministry of Education and Petroleum Affairs, additional monthly payments will be made by the Ministry on the appropriate view of the Ministry of Finance, taking into account the staff's service class, staff title, task and working conditions, not to exceed 200 per cent of the highest state official pension (e.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. In addition, the provisions of State Officers' Law No. 657 shall be carried out on the monthly basis, and there will be no tax or other deductions from these payments, except for the stamp tax. The staff assigned to control and control oil exploration and production activities by the General Directorate of Oil shall be paid daily according to the provisions of the Harcirah Law, twice the amount of daily tuition specified by the Budget Law each year, regardless of the Article 5 of the Law No. 6245." The proposal was three, but I read two because the paper in front of me was written two, so you have three. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 19 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0246par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0245par0258	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not cover public and state benefits because of the monopoly on licenses, the removal of export restrictions on raw oil, the removal of restrictions on the activities of foreign-controlled companies, the incentive and ease of domestic and foreign capital, the removal of TPAO's priorities and privileges and regulations to reduce the state's initiative in energy policies. 19. The item must be removed from the draft text that serves the purposes above. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 19th draft of Turkish Oil Law, 450 rows. Subsequent number seven. We offer and offer to add to the following joke. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends (7) According to State Officers Act No. 657 in the Ministry of Education and Petroleum Affairs, additional monthly payments will be made by the Ministry on the appropriate view of the Ministry of Finance, taking into account the staff's service class, staff title, task and working conditions, not to exceed 200 per cent of the highest state official pension (e.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. In addition, the provisions of State Officers' Law No. 657 shall be carried out on the monthly basis, and there will be no tax or other deductions from these payments, except for the stamp tax. The staff assigned to control and control oil exploration and production activities by the General Directorate of Oil is paid daily according to the provisions of the Harcirah Law, which is twice the amount of daily allowance set each year, regardless of the Article 50 of the Harcirah Law No. 6245." Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0247par0271	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0248par0272	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0245par0273	I'm reading the reason: The oil industry is one of the most intensive and constantly renovating areas of advanced technology around the world. Depending on that, it is essential that the oil industry and the companies that organise and oversee this sector are as expert in matters as they are in companies that are at least supervised by staff. However, the employment of such expert staffs with current general wage bars is not sufficient, and the underpaid staff is also lost due to low-paying policy. The failure to co-operate with those who serve in the same sector, the implementation of a fee that is far less than controlled and controlled in the oil sector costs, the implementation of the duties and obligations given to the administration by this Law in accordance with its purpose. The country's oil potential has been intended to be sought, audited, and arranged in accordance with our national interests for 50 years, providing minimum wage imbalance of the General Manager staff, providing the need to ensure that the General Directorate conducts its tasks with this Law to a maximum extent, in a manner similar to the practice of some other state establishments in our country that have earned income. It has been intended for staff assigned outside the area of the General Directorship to do their duty in a way that is appropriate for a government official, with the increase of the daily allowance of the Ministry to be paid, as in MTA and MIGEM General Managers; with a quick and effective audit, the technical and auditing staff in place, without the need of special institutional resources to be supervised. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 19 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Law Bill. Article 6. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Sakine Öz (Manisa) and her friends 'The data added by General Manager from oil transactions: it is kept, it is presented to the interested, and its revenues from promotion and marketing are deposited into the Ministry's central accounting unit for the registration of revenues in the general budget." Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0249par0287	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0250par0288	Sakine Öz will speak.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0245par0289	CHP Group is very lively. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0251par0292	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 19th Amendment of our talks on the Turkish Oil Act. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, energy has a political and social quality in many ways. Advanced societies recognize energy as a right, while it considers it a duty to provide the right in a qualified manner, to observe the balance of natural energy. The laws and international contracts we come across in examples of the world call for an energy policy that aims to benefit from cheap and secure sources that take the human element at its center while protecting nature. Advanced societies, who consider safe, cheap, from different sources, easy, accessible and uninterrupted energy a right today, require the protection of the environment and balancing the production and distribution of energy resources. Similarly, the Middle Eastern geography, which our country is particularly involved in, is known as an energy paradise. Since the 19th century, the struggles and wars for sharing energy force us to take more careful steps, to establish a delicate balance between our country's sovereignty and energy policies. Congressmans, in Middle Eastern geography, especially after the Arab Spring, energy security, sovereignty rights and border security have become such an important position that the diplomatic political relations we will discuss with countries in our region are artificially and for show that today we will not be able to conduct it with a strategic depth so fundamentally shallow that we will not be able to conduct them with an artificial and dissimilarity that we will be friends tomorrow. The AKP must review the so-called multi-directional, energy and diplomacy, but in reality, one-directional, Washington-directed orientations. Those who pat their backs and guide them and then move forward, not by those who retreat when our country is brought to the brink of war, not by those who snap their fingers at the Foreign Minister as Obama did, but those who bring the Minister of Energy with a hand move, as Putin did, but by observing regional balances and drawing his own path. Dear lawmakers, this precious land we live on, the Middle East region contains three-quarters of the world's oil and natural gas reserves. The energy potential of the Middle East and Asia will not fall, and our country will increase its importance as an energy bridge. However, we are far from considering our geographical position. The political will to develop a policy that will govern alternative energy sources is unfortunately not in this government at all. The AKP's power, which has wasted Turkey's energy, who thinks it's a temporary solution to regional energy, lacks the will to cover its wound in Turkey's economy. Today our country's import of energy products is one quarter of our total foreign purchase. It has been proven in the Commission's talks that this law, the biggest pen of our Cari deficit, is the Republican People's Party, the only party that will reduce our energy imports with a permanent energy policy, which will show respect for nature and detail the alternative energy policy to do so, both by protecting human health and pocket. AKP ruling the Black Sea and the Mediterranean have left our country behind without taking sufficient steps in the search for oil and gas. Our national organisation, the Association of Turkish Oil Anonymous, was left in the dark where it would be strengthened in this race. In the north, Russia, to the south, Israel and Cyprus came first, unfortunately. Our farmer's diesel has fueled up the trucker. Our families' gas money, which only travels one day a week, has gone up. The answer to the rebel manufacturer was always the same: we can't do anything, prices are rising in international markets, and we have to make the necessary arrangements inside. The government is much more aware of its own mistake, but it has no solution left to defend itself. They can't create a policy as reflected in their desperation, they can't name the solution, they underestimate alternative energy and they're leaving Turkey hostage to energy imports. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] With our problem so clear, our solution is obvious. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0252par0303	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 20. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 20th annual oil bill of 450 rows. Article 1. We propose and propose that his statement be added within six months, following the statement "By the Ministry" in his joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi of Aytun Çıray Kemal Millenderere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 20 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Bill text. Alim Imlum Lütfu Türkkan Mehmet Günal You've summoned Lightning Zuhal Gunner Mustafa Kalaycı Commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0253par0326	Motive, but I want you to read one.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0252par0327	Well, read one. Reason: the reduction of TPAO (TPAO)'s competitiveness by reducing its competitiveness from within the law is against the national interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey, and if the bill is legalized, the infrastructure of the privatisation of TPAO will be prepared. Therefore, this bill was not prepared with good intentions, and it would be good to withdraw. The removal of this clause from the draft text is in favour of the Turkish nation and against the international oil companies. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 20th annual oil bill of 450 rows. Article 1. We propose and propose that his statement be added within six months, following the statement "By the Ministry" in his joke. Gürkut Acar (Antalia) and his friends Commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Acar, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I have to admit, the most lively group of CHPs, there's nothing called sleep. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0254par0342	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have been promised Article 20 of Oil Law Bill 450. I salute you. My dear friends, we have offered to add the statement of the 20th article to come after the statement made by the Ministry in (1). Article 20/1 of the bill is: "Results of any rights taken or taken according to the provisions of this Law are concluded by the Ministry," he says. He's not here for a while. We don't think it would be helpful for the ministry to put the rights owners in harm's way, so we think it would be helpful for a six-month period. I hope that's acceptable. On the other hand, it is also the right choice, the right choice, to solve the case in court as a first-degree court against decisions in the second joke of the same clause. My dear friends, the Justice and Development Party continues its journey by messing with Turkey's institutions of the Republic of Turkey, selling all of its values -- like senior Minister of Finance -- but this is not a good road, Turkey is leading to a cliff. Everything's for sale, everything's negotiable, the place to arrive with that head is destruction. Turkey's giant facilities have been sold for two or three years of profits. Turkey's lands have been put on sale. The forests, the streams have been sold, now it's time for oil. Look, the AKP is a government that has managed to get the interests of the country out of the law. As the common values, such as the Turkish Republic of Turkey, are being removed from the law today, the AKP has also set aside its national interests with the Oil Act. We're dealing with a power that can give up national interests. My dear friends, this time you wrote this law for national interests, but now you're letting it all out, that's the classic AKP attitude. Turkey's biggest problem is imports, and depending on that, foreign trade deficits are open to business. The most important factor is oil, energy imports. Is Turkey following an energy policy that puts national interests ahead? No. The AKP has never had or will not have such a problem. In fact, it's not surprising that the Justice and Development Party brought such a bill, but it's never acceptable. The reason for the bill is that almost there is no oil or natural gas in Turkey. The risk of Turkey is too high. Dear friends, you're selling and you can't even do that. Does one market by saying that my property is bad? If the AKP is in power, it does. Dear lawmakers, oil is one of the world's most strategic products with water. That's the most important reason for wars. Most importantly, oil is the cause of instability, disagreements, and terrorism in the Middle East. Oil is of particular importance to Turkey. We had a clear experience of what oil was in Operation Peace in Cyprus. Turkey is unable to fly its planes. So oil can't just be viewed as fuel. This is also a security issue. Therefore, Turkey must extract and use its oil to protect its national interests, but the AKP opens all areas to foreign companies. The reason for the law is that ▪ Turkey has no money, no search can be made. Let foreigners come, let private companies come, let them search. Let Turkey's resources be squandered, let Turkey be invested in domestic and renewable energy sources, and let Turkey's oil be used to extract. My dear friends, for energy investments, there's no money for oil search, but the $2 billion dam, the Oymapınar Dam, has been given as an analogy to the supporters. Look, six years from a free dam, there's been a sale of about 750 million dollars worth of electricity. $750 million from a free dam to run the factory. You, on the one hand, will say, "No money to look for oil." You will transfer 750 million liras to one person, to the company. Despite the law, justice, court order, you will do so. What kind of government is that? No, it shouldn't. Then you'll make a law to cover it up. My dear friends, you have violated the Constitution. Look, you tore up the court order. There's no way to accept that. Turkey has money, it has resources, but there is no will to use it to benefit the Turkish people. That's the problem. The problem is in the AKP's power. My dear friends, there's so much to say, but I'm out of time. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0255par0354	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0256par0355	Roll call, yeah. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Sezazam, Mr. Serter, Mr. Special, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Kuvoğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Çağçı, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Gök, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bay Bayraktutan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Turk, Mr. Özbolat. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 21st and 29th Articles (a) of Article 27 of Article 27 of Article 27 (a) and (b), (2) the third, (3) the third, (4) the fourth and (5) the interim 1, 2, 3 and the fourth. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Durdu Özbolat, who wants to speak on the second chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0257par0373	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the second part of Turkish Oil Act 450. I hereby salute the High Council with love and respect. Dear friends, it is only natural to revamp agreements and laws on the search and production of oil, which has increased its importance every day in the world. However, what is unnatural and untrue is that these arrangements are made by short-term, political, economic accounts, which are based on the needs of international monopoly, without the country's interests being cared for. The bill we're discussing is a product of this flawed understanding. As the bill states, the law is designed only for the purpose of clearing the way for large capital. The government does not think, "How can I use domestic resources for our country's interests and prosperity, and how can I make the search and production activities more efficient?" How do I make international capital happy? See, Turkey is 92% dependent on oil, 98 per cent on natural gas imports. Turkey's daily demand for crude oil is 624,000 barrels, while domestic production is around 47,000 barrels. So our daily import of oil is 577 thousand barrels. We are the world's 14th largest oil importer. According to this, we can't even afford 10 percent of the raw oil supply from domestic production. The bill, which does not provide a solution to this problem, also eliminates imports, export restrictions in crude oil, and restrictions on foreign companies' activities. Not only that, our public company provides foreign capital with incentives and ease while destroying TPAO's priorities and privileges, and it opens up a way to monopolize licenses in favor of capital. It's also painted on by a national interest that's been emptied and nullified. Dear friends, fossil energy sources remain strategically important as a cause of war. In terms of the current situation in the region, Turkey is experiencing this as simple and as warm as possible. Supply security in energy is a national problem and requires a national strategy. For this reason, large governments hold large oil companies in public, creating an integrated structure, including search, drilling, raw oil production, pipelines, transport, refrigeration, petrochemistry, distribution and marketing activities. Most of the world's total reserves are controlled by national oil companies, and more than two-thirds of the world's 20 largest oil companies are owned by national oil companies. However, the government's bill leaves one of the most strategic sectors to the market's initiative and eliminates TPAO (TPAO); it also opens the way to privatise it by tearing apart its integrated structures. The negative consequences of privatisations and the transfer of production and investment decisions to domestic and foreign capital in the sector must be well assessed. Those policies will seriously jeopardize supply security. We can't close our eyes to this truth. Dear friends, these regulations cannot be explained on the basis of European Union legislation. The European Union implements different applications in member countries, as it imposes public liquidation and privatisation of the public in energy and therefore in oil for candidate countries such as Turkey. In the core countries of the European Union, the public weight maintains its power in the sector, and privatisation is either not done or kept at a minimum. There are similar situations in other developed countries. You know, the highest price for selling U.S. oil company UNOCAL (U.S.) was given by Chinese state company China Oil, but the sale was prevented by the U.S. Senate. In this country, which is a representative of liberalism, the practices in Turkey are thought - inspiring. Remember, most of the foreign companies that were interested in the privatized TUPRASH were state companies. Of the companies involved in the tender are the public companies of ENI Italy, MOL Hungary, REPSOL Spain, PKN Poland, Indian Oil India, such as Turkey's TUPRAS. It also nullifies the current public interest worldwide, which is promising to prosper by taking refuge in the story of liberalism. According to data, the largest oil company in the world is the state-owned Aramco company of Saudi Arabia and has 12 per cent of the world's oil reserves. The second largest company is the Iranian national oil company and has 5 per cent of the total reserves. The third company is the PDVSA of Venezuela, which also belongs to the public, which has more than 4% of the reserves. The total share of national companies in the world reserve is 37 per cent. In addition, there are 47 per cent of reserves that are controlled by national companies and cannot share more than 50 per cent of private capital. So, contrary to claims, 84 percent of the world's oil reserves are in the hands of the public. However, with this bill opening international monopoly, the government breaks public will and brings the sector into the market's hands and rejects the country's benefits. "The results and experiences obtained under Petroleum Law No. 6326 have revealed the need for a new law to ensure that domestic and foreign capital is more involved in oil search and production activities, in accordance with the similar ones in the world, " says dear friends. "The necessity is clear and clear, leaving no question mark. The government says we're going for capital and a new arrangement for monopoly. The bill is defined as the goal of national interest, but the entire public is in favor of companies and capital. So that even natural and cultural values, such as forest land, farmland, mera area, national parks and water assets, have been offered unconditionally to the service of capital. New oil companies are even given the right to operate indefinitely and smoothly throughout our country. The bill also provides no limit to the registration area and number of licenses, as it raises licenses to five years on land and eight on sea, based on the principle on the basis. This opens the way for a single international company or a foreign government company to have a single license to cover the entire country. The law, which allows external dependence to be blocked, free of all taxes, pictures and mortars, also envisions various tax exemptions, especially in importing tools, materials and equipment to oil companies. Dear friends, in the event of the private capital arrangement of the sector, the rhetoric of the state's income will increase is unrealistic. Although Turkey is the lowest state-owned country compared to other countries, 55 per cent of the upper border has been reduced to 40 per cent, reducing the amount left to the state. Foreign companies, which are said to have a large return to the country, are supposed to be supported by broad incentives, are allowed to export their import capital abroad in exchange for foreign currency and through currency in the history of transfer. He exports oil that needs to be left to the country, and that's not enough, he's given the right to export the capital. Where's the national interest in that? The limitation is expected, but on the contrary, the transfer of capital and profits by foreign investors is facilitated. The reason for the law is that the search and production activities of the oil industry in our country have not been required for 58 years, and it is correct. By 1999, production is at a lower 19 percent. The production level reached in 1991 and failed to reach a record of 4.5 million tonnes of production, and oil production has a tendency to continue to drop between 2000-2011. But will you prevent this by opening the way for monopolisation in licenses and removing export restrictions on raw oil, which must be maintained to meet the need for the country, by promoting and facilitating domestic and foreign capital and reducing the priorities and privileges of our state's energy policies? If that were possible, policies over the last ten years would have been successful. However, it is evident that this understanding is of no use. With these thoughts, I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0258par0387	Thank you, Mr. Ozbolat. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya, please come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0259par0390	Thank you, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, and I salute you all. Dear friends, while the motion on the matter was being discussed, I told the Minister that I would now read a few explanations and articles about the nature of the TPAO. First, in March 2007, two months after the Law came out, I'd like to say a sentence to Mr. Secretary of State that I wrote in the Middle East newspaper as an academic. So, after explaining the part of the law, I've concluded that it is contrary to our national interests that Turkey's only oil company, TPAO, should be able to compete in the international arena, while the countries such as Russia, America, Britain, Brazil, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, Iran, are fighting on energy resources. Minister, now, you have been asked before, are you considering privatisation in this framework? Mr. Elitaş, if Mr. Secretary hears... I'm saying his word, if it's wrong... I'm saying it's his word, maybe it's wrong, I'm reading it from the press. Mr. Nuts witnessed that meeting, but... The question is, you said earlier in November: there is no such thing, we are not thinking of privatisation in 2012. I can give you the address of the explanations here. In March 2013, when the commission was held, you gave a brief example of Shell, or even an example, that the EU had been processed in the European markets. He announced that they were considering privatisation by presenting a portion of it to the public, as in the THY model. The report of the Anadolu Agency is probably true. It goes on underneath, about the meeting at the commission. Now, in 2007, when this law came out, we said he was preparing for this privatisation. No, there's no such thing. You said that. Now, on top of that, I looked at some numbers to see if public companies have a share or not everywhere. We call it the Turkish Oil Law here, but it's really a little weird how much we protect Turkey's interests when we say the Turkish Oil Law. On the one hand, I'm getting the word Turkish out of everywhere, and I'm seeing an irony here, in fact, in the name of the law. The things I've looked at -- as I've just said in my 2007 article -- are said to have about 12 percent of the world oil reserves in Saudi Arabia, and on the other hand, Iran's national oil company has 5 per cent, Venezuela's national oil company has 4 per cent of its company, and Shell is said to have about 2 per cent. So, when we look at examples of the world, we see that in the international arena, all of the companies that do important jobs in oil are state companies, public companies. So, now, when we get out of here, we prepare to privatize it, or we can present some of it to the public. There are evaluations sent to you by some NGOs. There are evaluations made by associations during the law study of rooms. The opinion of the entire body has been ignored, and one of the four articles, which were the basis for the resuscitation of our then President, has been removed, the other two are protected, one has been extended a bit. I mean, as a matter of fact, it's not a bill that eliminates all these problems. At the same time, these NGOs and sector representatives that we're talking about have an opinion that the bill for Turkish Oil Anonymity should be discussed with this, so this company has a parallel view that it needs to be strengthened, along with oil explorations around the world, to lead the search for oil in Turkey. Of course, none of this has been taken into account at this time, but hopefully, these discussions... the Minister is here as soon as the bill on the TPAO, and instead of this division, integration and TPAO will be one of the most important companies in the world in this sense. Now, we're looking at, it looks like the Department of Petroleum Affairs has been made into a particular structure by the decree of the law, but there's no arrangement for the TPAO (TPAO) that should help it, which should work together, so what we're trying to say is that it needs to be complementary. It needs to be reconstructed in order to become more active in the production activities of these search activities as soon as possible. Of course, the reason for that is that I think it's not just a question of licenses, it's not just a matter of searches, it's a fundamental approach to oil work from the past to today, it's a fundamental approach to research production activities. Thus, in this framework, we feel that the bill on the TPAO should be brought in as soon as possible. On the other hand, Mr. Secretary, one of the things that happened here is that we have seismic research ships used in oil operations to help with the search. It's been said that a new ship has been purchased recently, but it can't function properly. When we look at studies in Cyprus, especially in the Mediterranean, it is said that the necessary work is not being done. Well, there's been some work lately, and since we as Turkey can't defend our rights here, we're also losing our power, our power, with some political debates, and some debates. During earlier studies there, our Navy had at times issued warnings, and then they were done on behalf of Turkey by means of another country's ship. Immediately, these efforts need to be speeded up, as well as to help solve the political problem there, as well as to extract oil resources from our own economic region, as well as to assess these oil sources in favour of our country. I mean, we think the part about the sea is important, too. At one point, an oceanographic research vessel belonging to our Navy also wanted to search this area, to study -- the seismic study -- and it was not allowed for political reasons. Of course, right now, the situation of our Marine Corps, let alone search, is in no condition to respond to it, not even if it's a threat, as commanders. That's what we're saying is that it's supposed to happen at a normal time. And for that, we need a general -- not just a basic energy strategy on all energy policies -- which we've said from the start to now -- but we need a more profound energy strategy, not only three, four sentences of wishes and wishes, as we've been talking to the Minister for a few years, but to get Turkey closer to its goal of becoming a leading country in 2023, to be free of external dependency in energy, with its own resources -- at least some of its own resources -- in the next time, to achieve its fulfillment by 2053. Hopefully, you'll take into account the suggestions we've made, and then we'll build a structure that will make us the leading country in 2023, and then we'll build energy investments that will help us become superpowers in 2053. It's not just oil and natural gas. In the coming process, we need an energy strategy to diversify their agreements, not only temporarily beginning, but also for energy supply safety and demand planning, but also for energy supply security, which is based on natural gas and gas power power power plants, which we need to diversify, which is about other renewable energy sources, which we can't even assess. I wish that these law talks were a means to him, and I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0260par0407	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Huseyin doesn't get upset. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0261par0411	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the second chapter of Bill 450. I salute you all. In order to achieve cheap, reliable, sustainable resources, our country, which is 75% dependent on the outside of energy, must design and implement programmes with its energy strategy based on national and public interests. In 2002, TPAO and other companies invested at a total of $100m in hydrocarbon exploration, while investments in the ten-year period of AK PARTI increased by over $1 billion.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0262par0414	What was the result? Has our oil production increased?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0261par0415	In parallel with the increase of investments, seismic and drilling activities have also increased.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0262par0416	Has our oil production increased?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0261par0417	Turkey was dug 35 wells in 2002, while in 2012 1,700 wells were opened, with a total of 169 production fields, including 118 crude oil and 51 natural gas fields. In 2012, the energy sector, which shrinked around 20 per cent in the world, grew around 5.2 per cent in our country. The new draft law, based on public sensibilities regarding Turkish Petroleum Law 5574, also provides new ideas and new goals for our country's energy policy. Instead of receiving a gradual share of state-owned oil, it is considered appropriate to buy one-eightth of the market price. The separation of domestic crude oil into the needs of our country is prepared in a participating process to reflect the opinions and demands of its fellow producers, including imports, taxes, kabotage and foreign work permits in the special legislation of other institutions. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish Oil Law Bill we're discussing will continue quickly, continuously, effectively, and will give our country a new and dynamic momentum to the search for oil and natural gas. This bill will pave the way for further search of our local hydrocarbon resources to reduce our country's import dependency, bringing new and important oil and gas exploration into the economy. The bill is designed in accordance with our country's geology. With this bill, registration applications, evaluations, search activities are envisioned in a competitive, transparent, safe, stable, and attractive environment. This bill, prepared primarily in view of our country's interests, offers a more simple and modern quality in the production sector after the removal of market laws from the current Oil Act over the past decade. The registration process opens the way for real investors to be eliminated from the process of getting licenses and no serious investments. From 1954 to the present day, oil law number 6326 eliminates many problems in the implementation of the Law on Oil, providing a current legal infrastructure to investors. It promotes more drilling and more commercial exploration in our country, encouraging more domestic oil and gas production. While removing obstacles to the investor, our government's search has increased revenues from production activities. Turkey, located in the middle of Europe, the Middle East, North America, the Caucasus, the Caspian region, and Central Asia, has a strategic mission to connect these regions with energy transfer lines. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our country, which is going through the process of being an energy corridor, gains a little more confidence every day with its geopolitical status, experience and stability. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0263par0429	Thank you. Last word on behalf of individuals, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ik... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0264par0433	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on my own behalf in the second part of the Turkish Oil Act. I hereby salute the High Council with respect again. In our country today, which is over 90 percent dependent on oil, we are aware, of course, that such a law is very important. Unfortunately, however, the regulations in this law are far from an arrangement that reduces Turkey's external dependency in oil and other natural resources, especially in the removal of oil, as the national company of the Turkish Republic of Turkey's state so far, have a regulatory group that opens the door to privatisation in the near term of the Anonym Partnership of Turkey. Now the world's crude oil prices increased rapidly from the year 2004 to the level of $14/varil in 2008, while in 2003 the world was due to 26 dollars/charillas, while it continued at the level of $110 in 2008. These prices are unpredictable in the future. In this case, I can't help but say that building infrastructure for new regulations that will soon be privatised -- in the lightest sentence -- is in line with our country in terms of the future -- by removing the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership, which has more than 75 per cent of the oil produced in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to give you a brief assessment of this matter by experts, as well as the results. In 2003 -- 12.5 per cent state revenues remain the same in other years -- as of 10,000 barrels per day -- I want to sum you up a company's annual net income: in 2003, the company A, which has a $32m income, despite the tax of 30 per cent institutions, has a net profit of about 180 million when the price of oil goes up to 100 dollars, and when it goes to 140 dollars, it gets $267 million. Now I'd like to call you from here. I can give it all to my friends who want it. If we don't impose a certain percentage of the profits of the oil companies, the foreign companies that we've opened up to Turkey, then we can see with this law what we can gain from who we can invest in this country. A company that won 32 million dollars in 2003 -- with its daily account of 10,000 barrels -- will have more than $200 million in net profit, and you will not make any conditions for that. Such an arrangement exists only in Turkey, valued MPs. We need to get ahead of this. For him, the withdrawal of this bill would be much better for this country. If this goes on, it will never reduce Turkey's problems with oil in the future. Please consider the cause of the turmoil in this area after the law on the removal of minefields on the Syrian border has returned from the Constitutional Court. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, what is the oil reserves that have been detected on both the minefields of both Turkey and Syria so far? While we wanted to hand over the minefields to foreign companies, was one of the underlying facts caused by oil? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain this from here. After the Constitutional Court returns him, we need to consider Turkey's relations with its neighbours in that sense. Once again, I remind the High Council to withdraw this bill and pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0265par0442	Thank you, Mr. Light. Moving on to QA. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0266par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as we all appreciate, developed and developing countries are trying to make maximum use of energy sources, increase energy production and efficiency. From the point of view of our country, outside dependency is terrible. However, there are different sources of energy in our country, and stone coal is at the top of it. Zonguldak, the first of the Republic, has at least a hundred and fifty years' reserve of stone coal, which is a source of metallurgical energy. In light of this information, I ask: Is it true that Turkey's need for stone coal is about 20 million tons per year, and every year it is paid 3-4 billion dollars for importing stone coal, leaving stone coal out of incentive? My second question is, with this oil law to increase our energy diversity, foreign companies are given extraordinary privileges, and the incentive of stone coal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...isn't it a clear contradiction to be left out?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0267par0451	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0268par0452	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, once again, I'd like to ask you: is there any study of the privatisation of the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership in the short, medium or long term? I'd like you to answer that in your own words, in the records of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There is no such thing. If you can say so, you can make us happy and the Turkish nation happy. Second: Did any company, including your government or government, have an agreement with the regional administration in northern Iraq? If so, what have we agreed on? And I think it's very important for him to go to the House. I'd appreciate it if you'd answer me. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0269par0456	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0270par0457	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, TPAO has an agreement with Libyan Oil Company (NOC) on March 16, 1995. This was adopted by the Libyan People's Democratic People's Committee in 20/2/2000. What was that? Search and production agreement. After this process, nearly 10 wells continued their search in Libyan Oil Company, where they had problems, and there were problems in some wells, but at 17/2/2011, they temporarily stopped operating in Libya, and continued to open an office in Libya. After the events in Libya, you know, the money was moved there with the bags, and after those events, what's our situation in these 10 wells when France gets 35 percent? Can we get oil out of there right now? Can we get our money's worth?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0269par0460	Mr. Halaman? No. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0271par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in the past few weeks, you know, we've changed the law of the State Railways and then the PTT. Now we're changing the Petroleum Law, which includes the Anonymous Partnership of Turkish Oil. In my opinion, these organizations represent the state's public stake, the institutions that represent the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey -- the private stock we call a gold stake -- these are the institutions that have these resources on behalf of the public. You make these organizations ordinary, by the law that you make, or rather, eliminate their privileges. What's the motive? I don't know what reason, what threat, why? Your power completes its tenth year. Ten years later, you bring in a policy like this, legalizing it in Congress. What's the motive? We're really trying to figure it out. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0272par0465	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0273par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in the 14th article of the bill (4), who do you intend to make these assessments, including the oil rights owner's income other than the oil process, or involvement in his capital, or transfer demand? It's not in the law. That's my first question. My second question is, in the last question and answer, you said that you had made no offer to Israel regarding the eastern Mediterranean gas. Was nothing done about the eastern Mediterranean gas or not? So, there's a Greek company or an American company on the line, and there's nothing to be done about it? Don't we have any plans, any projects? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0274par0470	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0275par0471	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on January 25th, I made a motion that the islands in the international area in the Mediterranean are occupied by Greece. The Greek flag is raised on these islands. What's being done about it? I said, will you take precautions? No audio for three or four months, no one-word response. Turkey has been brought up many times in the Grand National Assembly, and there is no sound again. Isn't it the duty of the AKP's government, the AKP's government, to defend Turkey's rights in the Aegean and Mediterranean? Don't you have a mission like that? In the eastern Mediterranean, Turkey's rights and interests were lost to the Greek administration, and now it's time for the western Mediterranean and Aegean. The Greek Cypriot government, along with Israel, divided the eastern Mediterranean and gave it to the companies it wanted. Turkey just watched. Are you going to keep watching, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0276par0474	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0277par0475	Mr. Secretary, I have made some accusations and made statements while discussing the Energy Market Law on Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation. What were those explanations? Turkey's Tashkomu Foundation is given to a redevans-style company -- its business in a few places -- and it's always postponed. In fact, he doesn't remove the coal that he needs to remove after three years of business activity, but there, with the approval of the retired general manager, we're talking about an extension of 17 months without retirement, we're talking about 500,000 tons of coal, starting with the beginning, and as the years go by, we can't extract coal. In fact, I told you that the campus of that institution, the director and the general manager and the company, who retired the campus of the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation, continues to use it. What's your research on that? Have you done any work on it? Have you filed a criminal complaint against this general manager?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0276par0476	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0278par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is there a company in Turkey that currently has a license to seek oil and natural gas from foreign companies? If so, what companies are they? How many? What districts and districts are these licenses for? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0279par0480	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0481	Mr. President, dear friends, first and foremost, I'd like to thank all the friends who have contributed without any distinction in power-mutation. Of course, there are things that are known to be true, things that are known to be missing, and I'm going to try to make up for that in part in this question-answer part. Dear friends, now, we have articles, we have readers, but we need to identify something. You know, we're talking about national companies, you've counted the names of that country in the world, in England, Brazil, America. Now, just because these companies have happened doesn't mean they've become public and state shares, so let's underline that. What are they? There are now companies known as 7 sisters from the world's largest oil companies. ExxonMobil, BP, Shell, Lukoil, Chevron, Total. Guys, none of this is a public company. Now, the fact that these belong to any country, the fact that Total is owned by France does not mean that France is a national company. It's such a big difference. Look, I'll tell you one thing: 63 percent of the world's integrated companies -- so all calls, production, distribution, delivery, all kinds of activities -- 41 percent of all companies are all about private companies, country structures. Like the United States of America, like England, France, partly Russia, now seven of the largest giant companies in countries like Russia, are completely private companies. There are companies that are half private and half public: such as Petrobras, ENI (Italian), OMV (Austria), GDF SUEZ (Fransa). There are companies half the size of government shares. There are companies such as Aramco (Saudi Arabia), Gazprom, Rosneft (Russia), NOC, PDVSA, Petronas, NIOC (Iran), Sinopec (China). Now, 63 of the largest 100 companies are integrated, so most of the state companies work as flexible as the private company. So Gazprom in Russia is public, but they don't work like public stock. We need to make a distinction before we get to the question-answer part. Now, all we want to do with TPAO is to create a company that can work elasticly in the international arena where we keep the flexibility high. If we can stay in public, it can come as a private company, it can come as a public company, it can be an IPO, it can be without an IPO, TPAO itself can remain stable, but we can run subsidiaries like a private company. The important thing is to increase his flexibility about all of this. Now, more than 400 engineers have left TPAO, friends. These separated engineers started working at $13,800 in companies where they went at $3,800. Well, the public may have a duty to recruit private companies, and I don't find that very contrary, but they go to international companies, too. So I'd like to answer by differentializing the difference between perception of this and reality. Now, if you'll excuse me for the question-answer part. What did you do? I mean, you've been searching so much, you've raised your budget, and you've asked Huseyin Bey -- what happened? What did you find? Friends, a well doesn't stay fixed. You start that well, you pull out a thousand barrels, three years later he can fall down 600 barrels, then 200 barrels. If you don't feed it, if you don't open new wells... if you haven't increased production as much as it's fallen in the last decade, you're going backwards.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0281par0488	You have fallen from 16 percent to 10 percent to 8 percent. Did I ask the wrong question?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0489	I can give you the numbers of all of this separately. Now, look, three minutes and twelve seconds left, about nine of our friends asked questions.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0281par0491	But you haven't answered the questions, you're explaining the conversations.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0492	So I'm sorry, but I'll take turns answering.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0281par0493	But you explain the speeches. We asked Mr. Hussein a question and you're telling him.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0494	I'm sorry, but I've had about 19 questions in the speeches.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0281par0495	Okay, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0496	I'm sorry, I listened to you when you were asking questions.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0281par0497	But you didn't answer the questions we asked you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0498	I mean, I'm moving on to it. I'll take the time, I'll take 25 more minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0282par0499	Time is short now, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Akar, two minutes and 45 seconds to go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0500	You guys, if you're giving me less of an answer here than you're asking, I'm sorry, we know a little bit about it.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0283par0501	You obviously know it very well!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0502	There's no question we can't answer, as long as there's time.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0284par0503	Mr. Secretary, I don't know what we're discussing!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0280par0504	Please listen, look, you asked a question, listen. Now, friends, what happened in northern Iraq -- I answer in turn -- what deal did you make? Is this a covert affair, would you open them to us? Mr. Light said. Guys, it's not a secret. However, we believe that the oil management of Iraq, the natural gas management, is not true. Let alone Maliki, we see that he is unable to manage his own group of sects, even about his own cult of fanaticism. Resignations, everything. Why am I saying this? Iraq's internal affairs are none of our business, but today we're doing it elsewhere in Libya, today in Azerbaijan, Colombia, if we're doing any work -- sorry -- in Iraq. It's one thing if it's a deal and it's a commercial contract. The government of the Republic of Turkey has agreements on Iraq, commercial contracts. Like Siba, he received four major tenders in areas like Basra, TPAO. This is an agreement with the Central Iraqi Government. The total amount of that is $5.5 billion for our share -- I mean, five consortium members -- along with our share. These things continue to be done. This is about the Central Iraqi Government. These are the deals. And then there's the trade contracts. Friends, we call commercial contracts, who are subject to special legal provisions -- regardless of discrimination here -- can make commercial contracts for public or private companies. Just like 19 countries do with 39 companies. Turkey is the 20th country in trade contracts and is its 40th company. Now, what do we want to defend? Do we want to defend the rights of Turkey, or do we want to defend the status of Iraq? I'd like to ask my friends that in the first place. If you are asking about Turkey's rights, Turkey will be profitable by its trade contracts in northern Iraq, and by its agreements in Central Iraq's government, it will have serious gains in the middle and long term. Regarding these, are you going to pass the pipeline? If it's carrying oil and natural gas and it's going to be transferred somewhere, I'm sorry, isn't it in the interest of Turkey to transfer it through Turkey? With a daily capacity of 1.5 million barrels today, the Kerkuk-Egg Ham Oil Pipeline will have about 800 million revenues when it operates at full capacity. One more pipeline, if there's a demand, if there's a demand, three more pipelines. Is this better for Turkey than Jordan, Syria, other countries? Now, that's what I'm asking you. So we're trying to get more pipelines through Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0285par0508	Don't ask, answer, Mr. Secretary. You're asking questions.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0286par0509	Mr. Secretary, we're waiting for our answers.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0287par0510	There's no point in misdirecting the question.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0288par0511	Now, look, here, in northern Iraq...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0289par0512	So everyone sees you wasting your time here, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0288par0513	Please listen. Friends, you may not like the answers. Listen, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0290par0514	So many ministers have come and gone, and you are not the only one who can answer two of the 20 questions and raise 18 of them.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0291par0515	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0288par0516	I don't want you to ask every...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0292par0517	Now, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0288par0518	Give me 20 minutes and I'll answer 20. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0293par0519	Who was it given to, you'll get it!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0294par0520	Mr. Secretary, you don't answer specifically.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0288par0521	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0293par0522	Shake, shake, shake...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0288par0523	You don't have to like the answer.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0295par0524	You don't answer in particular.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0288par0525	No.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0296par0526	You're doing it on purpose.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0295par0527	You're doing it on purpose.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0297par0528	Congressmans, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0298par0529	No, you didn't...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0299par0530	You're doing it on purpose.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0298par0531	My friend, you don't have to like the answer, please listen.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0300par0532	Reverends, time's already up.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0301par0533	You can't ask us questions from there. You have to answer our questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0298par0534	Moving on.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0300par0535	Mr. Secretary, if you do, your time is up.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0298par0536	Friends, today in mined areas, TPAO has licenses, foreign companies have licenses.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0302par0537	For God's sake! I'm sorry. I'll ask the question.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0303par0538	I'd like to ask you about this. Is that what this is?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0302par0539	You're the only one who's taking care of it?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0303par0540	One more question, two more. Do you have 18 of the 20 questions left?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0304par0541	The land between Syria and Turkey is now mined, but no foreign companies are now producing from TPAO. So, what do we want to do about the national company? If you look at Energy Intelligence, if you look at the data there, you'll see what companies in the world have to do with national companies. TPAO is short and middle term, long term...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0543	Yes, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0306par0544	Uh, time's up. Oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, Good luck, Mr. Secretary, time's up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0547	Mr. Secretary, we've added two more minutes to you, so you can answer the remaining questions in writing.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0548	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0549	Sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0550	Mr. President, we are now negotiating an important bill, sir. Naturally, in the department of questions, our fellow lawmakers are asking questions about issues that have never been enlightened, uncertain.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0551	Right.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0552	What's normal is that the Minister answers these questions. Mr. Secretary can make a choice like this, so if there's no way to respond right now, if he's not ready, if there's no way to convince him, if he doesn't have an answer...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0553	He can answer in writing.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0554	I will answer in writing. He may also use the option, but I find it the first time I see him not only using it but also speaking in the context of answering questions and hardly answering any of the questions.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0308par0555	Mr. President, I want a deadline.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0556	No, I can't.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0557	Let's give Mr. Secretary time to answer the questions, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0309par0558	There's no procedure like that, he can't use the time he likes.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0559	Well, Reverends...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0560	So now...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0561	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0562	Mr. President, let me finish my sentences, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0563	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0307par0564	Now, in a monologue of how much the agreement with Northern Iraq is in favor of Turkey, Mr. Secretary and I ask you questions. It's the first time he's brought the method of answering questions to those who ask questions, Mr. Secretary. What is in favor of Turkey's oil deal with northern Iraq? While Southern Cyprus has exposed the Republic of Turkey in the Mediterranean with Israel in its exclusive economic zone by making agreements on oil and natural gas, while the Minister has failed in the face of that agreement, while he has reflected it in his statements, Mr. Minister is not saying anything here, he can't answer any of this, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0565	In writing...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0310par0566	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0567	Your time is up, Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0310par0568	Mr. President, excuse me, may I say something?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0569	No, no, I mean, I added two minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0310par0570	Then I'll say two or three sentences.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0311par0571	You were supposed to say those three sentences in your time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0572	Now, one second... one second... you can answer in writing. Wait a second...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0312par0573	Mr. Secretary, what you're doing is jawwater soup, chin juice soup! It's not for a minister!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0575	Mr. Special, please, Mr. Private, please...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0313par0576	What do you mean, soup? What do you mean, chin juice soup?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0312par0577	Soup for chin juice! There are so many ministers coming and going, there's only one minister answering two out of 20 questions. It's a pity, it's contempt for the House, it's contempt for the House.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit10spe0305par0578	The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on the matter if there is one. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0305par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 450. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on the 21st article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 21st annual oil bill in 450 rows. Article 1. Make a joke. I'm telling a joke. I'm telling a joke. I'm telling a joke. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 21 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel The signatures of the other motion are: Reşat Right Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı Zühal Topci Lütfu Türkkan Celal Adan Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0314par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0305par0031	Read the reason. The reduction of the competitiveness of the TPAO (TPAO) will violate the national interests of the Republic of Turkey's state, and the infrastructure for the privatisation of TPAO will be prepared if the bill is adopted. Therefore, this bill was not prepared with good intentions, and it would be good to withdraw. The removal of this clause from the draft text is in favour of the Turkish nation and against the international oil companies. I'm reading the other reason: This clause is intended to form a consortium operator company with a c-bendi. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 21st edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 1. It's a joke. It's a joke. It's a joke. It's a joke. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0315par0045	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0305par0046	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0316par0047	Mr. Haydar Akar will speak.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0305par0048	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0317par0050	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, the Minister has changed. We asked the minister some questions, and when he couldn't answer those questions, he had to get out of here. That's the clear side, guys. He had to answer questions theoretically in the question-answering department, but he had to answer other things that had nothing to do with it or were not asked, but he did not respond to the question of Uğur Flagtutan, the irregularity of Cerattepe, and the corruption of the tender. Again, when the Minister is talking here yesterday, he completely misleads people when he answers questions and answers with demagogues. Now, he's telling the Iraq story. He tells the Iraq story by honeying it. He's trying to tell us where we stand in the Iraq story, and he's doing something else, putting the cult into it. You are a statesman, Minister of the Republic of Turkey. If your relationship with Iraq isn't good and you haven't developed it, then you can't talk about your international policy here and talk about sects. You're the Minister of Energy. (CHEERING) You have no right. You have no right to bring the Republic of Turkey down like this, my friends. Look what happened in Iraq. I want to read you from the Court report. Actually, my speech was something else, but now I have to, after the Minister has said things that aren't so right, I have to tell you and read them. I don't think you, I don't know what you want to do with the energy law. Let me read it. At the first of the license tenders held by the Iraqi Oil Ministry on 30/6/2009, TPAO failed to participate in any consortium and therefore failed to bid on the tender. In the second oil tender held by the Iraqi Oil Ministry on 11/12/2009, TPAO was later granted the right to operate in fields outside of large areas, but the most interested areas in the tender were won by other consortiums. What he's talking about, we've received the tenders in Iraq. The things he calls the "B" are contracts, and the Republic of Turkey shares about 6.5%; there are about 10 percent shares in the Republic of Turkey, friends, you should know about them. Please read what you've done, which is what your government has done. Again, about Libya. Look, I asked him in Libya, and he didn't answer that question. We had 10 wells in Libya, 6 of them found oil, and in 2011 they were stopped, where the activities of the Republic of Turkey were stopped by the current administration. You carried money with your bags, while you were fighting in Cyprus in 1974, and you lynched Gaddafi, the one who sent mail to us and to the world, with your money. Now that you're up, you're talking to us about faith in religion, and that's not enough, you're looking for opportunities to put sectarianism on the line to turn people against each other. (CHEERING) Dear friends, please be careful when you speak. In this law, the question is, in this law...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0318par0056	So now you're Kaddafici?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0317par0057	You don't have to talk to me at all.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0319par0058	Don't do the potpori, get to the point, tell him, let's hear him out.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0317par0059	You don't have to listen. Don't listen because you don't understand.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0320par0061	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0317par0062	Now, I'd like to ask you guys, why do you need this law? For what reason have you brought a law that has been rejected in 2006, under national interests and as a justification? What was the point, why did you bring it? Wasn't TPAO able to look for oil in Turkey by partnering with foreign companies? Yes, he is. He's been searching the country with countless oil companies. So why did you bring the law? Of course, the cartels ordered it, and he said: "We are about to find oil in the Black Sea." And they've been identified, and they've gone away from the Black Sea. Again, they knew about the oil reserves in those mined areas on the Syrian border, and that was not enough; the works of Cyprus and Israel together in the Mediterranean have resulted in perhaps the richest natural gas reserves in the Middle East. Now, I want to tell you, but I don't have time. When I show you those isolated fields, you'll know how far behind you are, how far away you are from the world's energy policies. But what was Turkey doing when Israel made a deal with Cyprus, when Cyprus made a deal with Egypt? Turkey was asleep, but that Kasympaşa kept his bullying. Do you know what Kasympaşa said? (AK PARTY RINGS) No. I'm just saying what he says. Why do you feel uncomfortable?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0321par0064	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0322par0065	You wouldn't understand! Don't talk about things you don't understand!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0317par0066	He says I'm from Kasympaşa. He says I'm a bully. He says, "Why bother?"
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0322par0068	You don't know Kasympaşa, let's go together!
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0323par0069	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 22 there are four proposals, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 22 of Turkish Petroleum Act 450 be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat İsmail Tamer Ahmet Ekyzızkaya Akif Çağatay Kılıç ==Early life==On January 1, 1980, oil rights owners have the right to export 35% of the raw oil and natural gas they have discovered in oil fields, and 45% of the landfields and 45% of the landfields as raw or crops, and all of the raw oil and natural gas produced before 1 January 1980, and the oil crops that have been produced from the oil fields. The Council of Ministers is authorized to redefine these rates and regulate procedures and principles related to implementation." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the following joke be added to Article 22 of Turkish Oil Act 450. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay On behalf of the state, the right to search and registration of a business is owned by Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. The partnership may use its right to or to manage its own or capital by means of expert institutions or by which it can be passed on to these organisations within the provisions of the Law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 22nd annual oil bill in the current 450 Rows. Article 1. Adding the following joke to come after his joke, other jokes being identified accordingly, 3 and 11. To change your jokes in the following way, Seven. "Kurar" at the end of his joke. It's "save and run. The control of the work of the facilities and the control of the environment are done by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. We offer supply and offer to be changed in the form of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Durdu Özbolat of Kemal Millendere "For the sake of the Republic of Turkey, the right to obtain a search warrant, a search license and a business license can be used by the Turkish Oil Association through companies under which it owns or controls its administration and capital, or it can be handed over to these organisations within the laws." ==Early life==The oil operation is completed, and the oil rights holder is obliged to rehabilitate the land he uses for the oil process within three months. If that time is insufficient, it can be extended for six months with the approval of the General Directorate. If the owner of oil refuses to carry out his claim, the burden will be paid to the owner of oil rights and account by the general manager's office, provided the owner of oil is not satisfied with the current guarantee of the owner of oil rights, and the owner of the oil rights will not be able to guarantee it," he said. "One hundred meters from a water plant, a road or gate, and in cities or towns, municipal zoning zones and military restricted areas cannot conduct oil search and business activities within a restricted area," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 22 of the 450 Rows of the Numbered Bill. We propose and propose that the clause 12 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0324par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0323par0109	Read the reason, please. (12) The joke was written in vague terms. Because it can cause problems in the application by describing them as needed situations. The article (12) must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 22nd annual oil bill in the current 450 Rows. Article 1. Adding the following joke to come after his joke, other jokes being identified accordingly, 3 and 11. To change the jokes in the following way, Seven. "Kurar" at the end of his joke. It's "save and run. The control and control of the work of facilities and whether there is damage to the environment are done by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism." We offer and offer to change it into form. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends "For the sake of the Republic of Turkey, the right to obtain a search warrant, a search license and a business license can be used by the Turkish Oil Association through companies under which it owns or controls its administration and capital, or it can be handed over to these organisations within the laws." ==Early life==The oil operation is completed, and the oil rights holder is obliged to rehabilitate the land he uses for the oil process within three months. If that time is insufficient, it can be extended for six months with the approval of the General Directorate. If the owner of oil refuses to carry out his claim, the burden will be paid to the owner of oil rights and account by the general manager's office, provided the owner of oil is not satisfied with the current guarantee of the owner of oil rights, and the owner of the oil rights will not be able to guarantee it," he said. "One hundred meters from a water plant, a road or gate, and in cities or towns, municipal zoning zones and military restricted areas cannot conduct oil search and business activities within a restricted area," he said. Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0325par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0323par0126	Mr. Ozbolat, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0326par0128	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding Article 22 of Turkish Oil Act 450. I hereby salute the High Council with love and respect. Dear friends, unless there is a global economic crisis in the next decade, the world's demand for general energy is expected to increase by 50 per cent. This expectation represents an average increase of two per cent year-on-year, and the global energy consumption of 2020 is expected to be equivalent to 13 billion,700 million tonnes of oil. This increase will still be lower in industrialized countries that consume very high amounts of energy, twice the amount available in developing countries. It is estimated that there will be no problem with the supply of such resources, both in terms of reserves and in terms of production, despite the demand for oil and natural gas, which are expected to increase significantly. However, the most important issue for supply security is the imperialism and competition in our country's region. When you wish, pull my rope. It's nothing more than to say, "When Turkey goes to be alone in the region, it's at a point of hostility towards its neighbours, it's time to offer limited energy resources to the service of the monopoly." Dear friends, Turkey has a sense of handing over the sector to foreign capital entirely from a bill designed by the idea that Turkey is not an oil country, that the search for available limited resources and processing of existing resources cannot be made by public hands. Therefore, the law is far from establishing a national oil policy that recognizes the long-term interests of the country. The Oil Act is one of the most important laws in terms of energy, economic and national security strategy. However, the bill will not be able to respond to public interests and the country's needs. ▪ The activities of foreign states have been expanded by expanding the activities of foreign states in a strategic area, in which companies and persons acting in the name of foreign states cannot operate in oil activities, they cannot acquire property, they cannot establish a facility. The bill, which gives foreign companies broad rights like this, has been abandoned to other foreign companies to look after the TPAO. Again, the bill has also gone to a number of technical arrangements with various difficulties to be focused on. The current application also removed the obligation to open a search well with the bill, leaving the company's programme to open a well, when it has to start drilling and drilling in oil areas within three years, to speed up drilling oil exploration. Thus, in recent years, further reductions of drilling have been introduced. Applications to a field with a business programme and a financial investment programme will be put on hold for 90 days, and all applications will then be evaluated and concluded within 60 days. This period, which is four days in the current application, is extended by the bill, and the deadline for the search of the land is another five months longer. In the bill, Turkey was divided into two regions, including land and seas alone, with licenses increased to 100,000 on land, 1 million hectares at sea, and licenses increased to five years on land and eight on sea. No restrictions have been placed on the number of licenses, so that a single international company or a foreign state company will have a single license to cover the entire country. In addition to a specific oily land, there is the rule that the business license will be issued for geologically defined production levels. With a specific field involved in the previous practice, there will be no way to implement it, but to apply separate licenses to different levels of depth that will inevitably bring technical and legal problems. While the previous law states how long the business license area may be, there is no limitation criteria in the bill. Business licenses have been extended from 20 to 30 years, as companies are given the right to a business license in large areas. Given all these shortcomings, it would not be crude to say that Turkey's oil policy will not move in a positive direction. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0327par0139	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0328par0142	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0327par0143	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Yalçinkaya, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Develi, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Agha, Mr. Çam, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özbolat, Mr. Sun, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanial, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Earth, Mr. Light, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Öz. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the following joke be added to Article 22 of Turkish Oil Act 450. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends On behalf of the state, the right to search and registration of a business is owned by Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. The partnership may use its right to or to manage its own or capital by means of expert institutions or by which it can be passed on to these organisations within the provisions of the Law. Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0329par0162	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0327par0163	I'm reading the reason: Reason: In terms of oil and natural gas, given our country's largely external dependency and geopolitical position, these strategic raw materials are also important to the government. In particular, developments in the Mediterranean and Cyprus axis have shown the need for our country to own a national oil company. In order to eliminate our country's dependence on oil and natural gas, the search and development of our country's natural resources, particularly the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, can only be carried out by a single and state-owned national company. The removal of this decree, under Oil Law 6326, would pose serious problems for our national interests. For these reasons, the red line of the law is to preserve TPAO's current position; Turkish Oil A, as shown in Lawtext 6326. Him. The right to an oil-related research permit, search and operating license on behalf of the state must be included in the Turkish Petroleum Law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 22 of Turkish Petroleum Act 450 be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends ==Early life==On January 1, 1980, oil rights owners have the right to export 35% of the raw oil and natural gas they have discovered in oil fields, and 45% of the landfields and 45% of the landfields as raw or crops, and all of the raw oil and natural gas produced before 1 January 1980, and the oil crops that have been produced from the oil fields. The Council of Ministers is authorized to redefine these rates and regulate procedures and principles related to implementation." Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We leave it to appreciation. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0330par0174	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0327par0175	Read the reason, please. Reason: In extraordinary and unexpected situations, the material has been redesigned to ensure the use of domestic raw oil and natural gas, which is necessary for our country's supply security. According to this arrangement, the Council of Ministers is intended to be authorized to redefine the rates mentioned in the Bill and to regulate the procedures and fundamentals regarding the purchase of oil within this scope. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the clause to your votes within the agreed motion framework: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 23; I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 23 of Turkish Oil Act No. 450 We offer and offer to change the 100 thousand terms of his joke to 150,000. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Muharrem Varlı Cemalettin Simsek Mesut Dedeoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 2 of the Article 2. Its joke is to be replaced by ▪1100,500,000, and to be replaced by the 11,000 that is found on its bench. We offer and propose that the statement in his joke be changed to five days. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Mahmoud Tanal of Kemal Millendere Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0331par0197	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0327par0198	Mr. Hamzacebi, who will speak?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0332par0199	Mr. Mahmut Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0327par0200	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0333par0202	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, of course, when we look at this bill, what's going on, if we can just look for answers to these questions right now, our friends in the General Assembly will be fully aware of the purpose of this law. 1) Under the provisions of this bill, what will the achievements of state and investors be under different scenarios? Is it estimated? Such assessments guide the designs of the Oil Law. 2) What do these gains mean compared to the norms of the world? 3) How will natural gas affect quantitative gains when oil prices rise and fall to a certain degree? How does this affect the stability of the Oil Law? 4) What is the reason for Turkey's resistance in the state stake -- tax -- when natural gas sources are strategically important coastal countries in the Eastern Mediterranean -- Egypt, Syria, Israel, South Cyprus and Lebanon -- have adopted the modern production system? Where's the modernization move? As a result, there are some positives. What are the positives? Here are some concessions of Turkish Oil that have been destroyed here, and there are no privileges here. How much of the oil the state needs will remain in Turkey, one of its weaknesses. As the world abandons its old and traditional state share, as it goes towards its production share, for supply safety, we abandon the production share, with this bill, we take the state share. With this arrangement, the competitiveness of Turkey's Oil Association of Anonymous is being stripped of its authority to search and produce on behalf of the state. The state has no privileges, the state's jurisdiction is being lifted here. This poses a public safety threat to public interest, and at the same time, there's no distinction between us when we have twice as many staff working staff in other countries as possible for foreigners to be employed under normal circumstances. It's really dangerous. And tax-wise, the tax-payment has been reduced according to the previous law. This decline is also a tax loss. So it can only help with some bureaucratic difficulties. In the past, the authorities could be as long as 40 years, 50 years, 30 years, and now it may be called objectively good, but how much of the oil or natural gas found in Turkey -- which the state needs -- will remain in Turkey, and how much of it should be left in Turkey? There's no regulation for public interest or public interest, no criteria, very comfortable. In fact, I just said in my speech: 1/8 share. And in fact, in the cash sense, if the Ministry offers it, it'll be paid the same way. At the same time, there are no provisions in the bill on what our national interests are, on the protection of national interests. So even though there are provisions that protect the national interests of every country's oil law, I'm asking you, Mr. Minister -- we've lived the most vivid example of this in the Cyprus war, the embargo has been put -- what our national interests are -- there's a great need for national interests to be brought to justice. You have listened to me patiently, and I thank you all, and I bid you good night.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0334par0213	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 23 of Turkish Oil Act No. 450 We offer and offer to change the 100 thousand terms of his joke to 150,000. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0335par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0336par0223	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0334par0224	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to prevent illegal activities. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 24; I have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 24th edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 3. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Turgay Develi of Kemal Millendere The oil-righted law states that oil rights will be revoked by the end of 90 days if it does not comply with any of the conditions written in its rights, regulations, search warrants, search licenses or business licenses. At the end of the 90-day period, an extension is given by the General Manager, where the owner of oil rights needs additional time to comply with the conditions. If he does not comply with the terms at the end of this period, his permit or registration will be revoked. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 24th draft of Turkish Oil Law, 450 rows. Number four of item number four. We offer and propose that the excerpt joke be changed in the following way. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu "The search or business license will be revoked if the state stake stated in Article 9's first joke shows that it has not been paid to the relevant tax office twice in a total of a year." Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We do not agree. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0337par0249	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0334par0250	I'm reading the reason: Reason: This arrangement aims to prevent the state's share from being paid. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 24th edition of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 3. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Turgay Develi (Adana) and his friends The oil-righted law states that oil rights will be revoked by the end of 90 days if it does not comply with any of the conditions written in its rights, regulations, search warrants, search licenses or business licenses. At the end of the 90-day period, an extension is given by the General Manager, where the owner of oil rights needs additional time to comply with the conditions. If he does not comply with the terms at the end of this period, his permit or registration will be revoked. Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We do not agree. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0338par0261	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0334par0262	Mr. Develi, please come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0339par0265	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Taner Yildiz, the Minister of Energy, either thinks we're stupid, or he doesn't think we're stupid, or he's tired, or he's just looking us in the eye, and he's either giving us the wrong answer or he thinks we're stupid because he doesn't know what we're asking, or he thinks we're stupid. He said the oil giants in the world aren't public companies. We didn't say oil giant companies were public companies, but they're all national companies. He thinks we don't know the difference. Instead of answering questions with a crowd of words, he's trying to tell you what he knows. Mr. Secretary is doing very dangerous work, Mr. AK PARTY friends of mine. Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, members of the group, persistently and persistently, despite asking our questions about abuses in the Ministry of Energy, allegations of corruption, allegations of abuse, abuse of office, once, twice, three times, four times in writing, under which he does not speak, he does not answer with his own signature. One question we asked TEDASH was that we sent inspection reports to the Ministry under the direction of the Ministry of Energy. It's called the Ministry of Energy, and when we ask the Ministry of Energy, ask the Ministry of Finance. It's called the Ministry of Finance. We're on probation here, we're on legislature. There are serious allegations of corruption in institutions in your power. There are serious allegations of corruption in energy distribution tenders under the Minister's Ministry. The President of the Privatisation Administration works like a Duyümiye institution. The laws that have been passed, the State Railways, PTT, TEDAŞ electricity distribution tenders, and the Oil Law, friends, a liquidation law, and while doing so, there are reports from the review board that the head of that institution, the bureaucrats of that institution, are working for them, leaving money in the vaults of the privatised companies, not reading the electric meter, not reading the electricity clocks, we all have hundreds of millions of dollars in money being stolen, leaving it to private companies. That's what we're asking the Minister to do, he's saying: go to court. My brother, Mr. Secretary, we need documents to go to court, don't we? I've asked the Speaker of Parliament, I've written it, I've written it to the Minister, I've written it to TEDASH, he's talking nonsense. And I told you the other day, if there's nothing to hide, if there's nothing to steal, if there's no wrong procedure, you Justice and Development Party MPs, ask him to come out, please. Then shame us, for there is no corruption in our AK PARTY. Why are you hiding these documents, the review board reports? There are hundreds of millions of dollars worth of suspects, stolen money, gone. Why don't one of you come out, Mr. Secretary, and you answer to these CHP people? Have you no conscience, no sensitivity at all? Congressmans, your Minister of Energy is very tired, doesn't give the right information anymore, can't even answer the questions the MPs ask here. Here, three times, I looked him in the eye and asked for these documents, and he said, "I'll give them to you." I'm still waiting. I pay my respects. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0340par0272	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 25: I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 25th annual oil bill in the current 450 Rows. In 90 days following the declaration of the ministry, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of Jehovah's Witnesses in the following 90 days. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Aytun Çıray Mahmoud Tanal of Kemal Millendere To the presidency of TBM, 25 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Reşat Right Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı Celal Adan Lütfu Türkkan Kemalettin Yılmaz Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0341par0293	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0342par0294	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0340par0295	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The reduction of TPAO (TPAO)'s competitiveness by reducing its competitiveness, and the removal of it under the law would be contrary to the national interests of the Republic of Turkey's state, and the infrastructure of the privatisation of TPAO will be prepared if the bill is adopted. Therefore, this bill was not prepared with good intentions, and it would be good to withdraw. The removal of this clause from the draft text is in favour of the Turkish nation and against the international oil companies. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 25 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. In 90 days following the declaration of the ministry, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of Jehovah's Witnesses in the following 90 days. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0343par0305	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0340par0306	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0344par0307	Mr. Mahmut Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0340par0308	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0345par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in this bill, all oil sold, oil produced, oil found, can be sent abroad, transportable, no restrictions from this angle, and there is no clear, prohibiting sanction that oil or natural gas sent abroad can be brought to Turkey as dollars. When we look at the bill, there is a principle of freedom in this regard. Now, you have friends who export products abroad before they become MPs. Among you, we have friends who represent those who are tried for exporting products and not returning that foreign currency to Turkey. In accordance with the principle of equality of the Constitution, the exported, sent, sold, and sold services must be returned to our country in exchange for foreign currency for a certain amount of time, but when we look at this bill, there is no harm if the money in Turkey's subterranean wealth is sent to Turkey as it is abroad, but there is no harm, there is no penalty, there is no sanction. What's this one called? In the legal literature of this, as far as we know, it's no different than capitalization. Under this Oil Act, natural gas and oil were sought out and sent abroad. Well, the currency doesn't come to Turkey, and the oil doesn't come to Turkey, so who benefits from this bill, this law? In order for this law to benefit a Turkish citizen, at least the exchange of oil sent abroad from our country must return to Turkey. Before Mr. Elitaş became a tradesman. Isn't the cost of a product that you export abroad supposed to be brought to Turkey in exchange for foreign currency, Mr. Elitaş? If you hadn't brought him in at the time, you'd have been put on trial in a court of law. So, if you've been exported like this, then why is it that you're required to bring the currency to Turkey in return for this product that you've sent to you, and why isn't it brought to these companies? Why is this privilege, this privilege? There is, indeed, an inequality to the trade. Who benefits from this law here? I'm thinking, I'm moving, there's only one thing that can happen, but in the interest of foreign companies, the Turkish citizen has no interest, the state has no interest. In exchange for the product sent, the exchange does not come to Turkey, plus, beyond, there is no sanction as to how much of the natural gas or oil found here -- what we need -- will remain in Turkey. When we look at it from these angles, there's a real problem here. Yes, you're looking for 1% guarantees in the seas, 2% on land. Well, is that just a criterion enough? Shouldn't the experience be searched, at least, and the technical information being searched? The technical principles of knowledge and experience must include the criteria for giving this license. In that sense, indeed, there is a great flaw in the bill. It's still not too late. Of course, we say this bill for the benefit of our people when we say so much, say so many criticisms. I mean, we're telling the truth here, we've told the bad side, and I've told the good part, in terms of that bureaucracy, in terms of shortening time. Please, I'm asking you to give me a little support for what's really right. I wish you all good night again.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0346par0322	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 26; I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 26th edition of the current 450 Rows of Oil Act. We offer and propose the addition of the joke to the clause below. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek "2) Turkish companies to invest in a country outside the Republic of Turkey for the purposes of oil and gas exploration and production A) Half of the wages and social security premiums for every citizen of the Republic of Turkey that is employed in the country where investment is being made are paid by the state. B) A fifth of the foreign personnel fee at the facility where the investment was made is paid by the state. C) The equipment produced in Turkey for the project is an exception to any customs tax. D) 30 per cent of the costs of offices to be opened abroad are taxed by the state next year. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Twenty-six of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Reşat Right Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı Celal Adan Lütfu Türkkan Kemalettin Yılmaz The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We do not agree. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0347par0355	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0346par0356	I'm reading the reasons: It is intended to bring in a special incentive system for oil companies. The incentives are from taxes paid by Turkish citizens, civil servants and employees. Twenty-six to get the oil companies to transfer funds. The article (12) must be removed from the draft text. Reason: The reduction of TPAO (TPAO)'s competitiveness by reducing its competitiveness, and the removal of it under the law would be contrary to the national interests of the Republic of Turkey's state, and the infrastructure of the privatisation of TPAO will be prepared if the bill is adopted. Therefore, this bill was not prepared with good intentions, and it would be good to withdraw. The removal of this clause from the draft text is in favour of the Turkish nation and against the international oil companies. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 26th annual oil bill in the current 450 Rows. We offer and propose the addition of the following joke to the article. Turgut Dibek and his friends ▪ Turkish companies to invest in a country outside the Republic of Turkey for the purpose of oil and gas exploration and production A) Half of the wages and social security premiums for every citizen of the Republic of Turkey that is employed in the country where investment is being made are paid by the state. B) A fifth of the foreign personnel fee at the facility where the investment was made is paid by the state. C) The equipment produced in Turkey for the project is an exception to any customs tax. D) 30 per cent of the costs of offices to be opened abroad are taxed by the state next year. Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We do not agree. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0348par0373	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0349par0374	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0346par0375	Read the reason. Turkey's oil companies, particularly TPAO, have been provided with an incentive system that will pave the way for investment abroad. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 27 (1) (a) I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 27 (1) (b) I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 27 (2) I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 27 (3) The third joke...
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0350par0386	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0346par0387	Aye. Article 27 (3) There is a request for roll call in the third joke. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çam, Mr. Turk, Mr. Develi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Öz, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Atici, Mr. Light, Mr. Aydın. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] Article 27 (3) I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 27 (4) I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 27 (5) I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary article 3, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary article 4, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins in the motion with only 14 members, I'm going to discuss the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A Temporal 4 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. After Article 5 of the following article, we offer and offer the introduction of Interim Article 5 of the following Article. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek The Law on Anonymity of Turkish Oil is issued within six months of the date of the Turkish Petroleum Act. Reverend Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGY, EMPLOYEMENTS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION We don't have a single majority, we can't participate, sir. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There's a motion in Article 28 that I read and process. 28 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Reşat Right Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı Zühal Topci Lütfu Türkkan Ali Longırmak Mr. Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGY, EMPLOYEMENTS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0351par0430	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0346par0431	I'm having it read. Reason: the reduction of TPAO (TPAO)'s competitiveness by reducing its competitiveness from within the law is contrary to the national interests of the Republic of Turkey's state, and if the bill is legalized, the infrastructure of the privatisation of TPAO (TPAO) will be prepared. Therefore, this bill was not prepared in good faith, and it would be better to withdraw. The removal of this clause from the draft text is in favour of the Turkish nation and against the international oil companies. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 29 that I'm going to read and process: To the presidency of TBM, Number 29 of the 450 Rows of the Bill of Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Minister of Energy and Natural Resources conducts these laws. Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Zuhal Topcu Kemalettin Yilmaz Ali Uzırmak Lütfu Türkkan Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0352par0446	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0346par0447	Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0353par0449	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the final clause of the bill. However, instead of the Council of Ministers, this law shall be passed by the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. But, in the name of history, I'd like to share with you a few issues concerning this law. You may have noticed, since the beginning of the bill, I've asked the Minister a question: does your government, short, medium or long-term government have any opinions, opinions about the privatisation of TPAO?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0354par0451	No.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0353par0452	Yes, we will privatise the Minister's very manic and embezzled response. I say again, to pass along the note: we can submit the PTPAO to the public, or TPAO can continue its next activities inland and abroad through private companies. This bill, as I underlined, is a design for the privatisation of TPAO (TPAO) in the next step. Good luck to you, but it won't be good for the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, in this bill, we've always tried to help in the search of good intentions, if we could reduce the dangers, but we've found that a very persistent attitude, Mr. Ministry and the Government, has failed to add to your criticism and our proposals. It seems the Minister is in a difficult position. The former Minister, Hilmi Guler, has taken the Law 5574. I believe, and I regret to inform you, Mr. Secretary, that this law will carry. Mr. Secretary, after this law is enforced and enforced, he won't be able to sit in that chair as comfortable as he is today. Because in 2003, the net profit per barrel was $8.78 at $26 per barrel of oil prices. The net profit rose to $55.25 at the price of today's net profit when you averaged $110 at the price of that day. If TPAO had remained a national company, if he had managed his next activities this way, the money would have been a net profit in the Turkish Republic's state's vault, but from now on, foreign companies would have a net profit. I took this promise specifically to share it with you. In the spirit of not being ashamed of it, in the name of tomorrow, as your final decision, please, please, please, at least reconsider these warnings in good faith. Dear lawmakers, this bill, I repeat, is a bill to be wiped out of history by Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. From now on, the Minister won't be able to speak of this matter again. Despite all our insistences, despite our proposals, this bill is only asked about the auction of Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. Read well, there's no law anywhere but that. There's gotta be some point in getting this bill passed through the Commission and brought here right away before the Act of Turkish Oil Anonymous is passed. That means, please make the most of it. This bill, I repeat, is not a bill the beloved Turkish nation wants. In light of the incidents in the region... and what a member of the BDP has said today, please take the minutes and read them. An MP has made this stand the threat to you that the bill will not be run if the government's commitments to the PKK are not fulfilled by November. I do.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0355par0458	We made no promises.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0353par0459	I do. Read the transcripts, and I'd like you to reconsider why this was removed. At this time of night, I pay our respects again, reminding you that you are responsible for reevaluating the bill at least at the last moment, on your shoulders and fingers. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0356par0463	You're in charge.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0357par0464	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, to show the color of the game according to the Civil Code Article 86, Smyrna MP Musa Çam is about to be against it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0358par0471	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. Yesterday, it was 01 a.m. We've finished at 00, we've found the same hours today, and today you're going to destroy a fifty-nine-year-old historical institution with your votes, but here, again, we're going to do our historical duty, and we're going to make a note of history. Dear friends, as this law passed today, I remembered one thing: In 2001, when Kemal Dervis was Minister, there was a series of laws called fifteen laws in fifteen days. Now, in this Parliament over the last month, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you've hit the final point... where city hospitals, the liberalisation of State Railways, the privatisation and development of Yassiada and Ustida, and the privatisation and privatisation of PTT. Its plague and responsibility are great and very heavy. But I would like to remind our valued deputies once again. Congressmans, do you know that by this law, the decision of the Council of Ministers, which is wanted for foreign state companies to operate in oil activities, has been lifted and has opened the way for the control of foreign states of search and production activities? The right to seek and obtain a business license for the state belongs to Turkey's Petroleums Anonymous Partnership. The ruling is lifted from the law. You're removing the law that stipulates that the expired oil production fields, as in the world, will be given to Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership to continue production on behalf of the state. Members of parliament, the requirement for technical competence and experience is lifted in applications for this law and the oil-seeking license. You're in the way of giving licenses to non-attentive companies. You're clearing the way for oil exploration and production, including national parks, where the forest is considered.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0359par0476	We took it off, didn't you see it?
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0360par0477	It's been removed.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0358par0478	Congressmans, you're creating a risk that a single company will have land and sea spaces in order to form a state while giving up state revenues due to increases in tax rates. Dear lawmakers, in order to search for a strategic raw substance and increase local employment and experience in its production -- as in all world examples -- you refuse to employ two Turkish citizens of the same trade group for each foreign staff that oil companies employ. Dear lawmakers, with this bill you will accept, Adıyaman, Batman, Lüleburgaz regional directors, you are eliminating investment, employment, across the country, on a significant scale. Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline is 6.53 percent of South Caucasian Natural Gas Pipeline, 9 per cent partner, and has shares in oil and natural gas to transport through pipelines, and you're destroying it. Dear lawmakers, by saying yes to this law, you end the national oil company's Anonymous Partnership of Turkey by saying yes to this law, by not looking out for our national interests in the bill designed to encourage oil exploration in our country, by not allowing our underground resources to be evaluated in accordance with the public interest. Now, I'd like to present you two paragraphs from past reports. The year 2001, a member of parliament says on the stand: "My dear fellow lawmakers, I want to express my regret. Our congressman friends in Parliament are not voting officers to accept or reject every bill that comes in. This bill will keep certain capitals in Turkey for the next 20 years and will take out the source, which represents about billions of dollars. On such delicate matters, I believe it is wrong for our fellow lawmakers -- once again, these proceedings will surely bear witness to history -- at least our friends who have not read the bill -- to vote for this law. On behalf of the Favourate Party Group in 2001, Konya MP Veysel Candan says so. Again, I'm reading a paragraph from a memo that says, "Dear MPs, we need to pay close attention to the laws you're going to make. Each law must be prepared and accepted after sufficient thought, examination, research, negotiations. Turkey's Grand National Assembly can't work like a law factory. As long as we've made laws, it's not a trick. If a law comes back to the General Assembly for tasting after a month, it turns out we're not paying enough attention to the lawmaking technique. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For example, on 20/2/2001, the Power Market Law was adopted as Law 4628. Now, it's accepted by this law that there's no chance of getting our jobs done in a hurry, enough negotiation, thought, research. And it's said that again on behalf of the Ponzi Remzi Cetin Party Group.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0361par0487	Thank you very much, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0358par0488	Now, I've said these two paragraphs, valuable MPs, to explain. Virtue lawmakers speak in Parliament in 2001 and warn lawmakers. Once again, I stress what your fingers will cost this country, and I salute you.
tbmm-2013-05-29sit11spe0361par0490	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Pine. The negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. As long as you know their proxy business, I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The 450th Bill of Law is open to vote: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 236 [[x]] Yes, the bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, under the Law on Change in the Law of the Institutions of Higher Education. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Nature and Biological Variety Law, which is ranked in the 5th place, and with the Environmental Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the Commission will no longer be found, it is Thursday (May 30th 2013) at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken, to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night.
