tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sevim Savarer, who asked for the official opening of Darülaceze. Here you go, Mr. Fighter.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised off the agenda for the official anniversary of Darulaceze's opening. I hereby salute your high council. It's a narrow Persian word for the needy, the door of the weak. People in need of care are protected and cared for. Dear lawmakers have become the great state in which the Ottoman State maintains its traditional understanding of all things and values, and from the time it has lost its property, the process of collapse has begun. The process of the Darulacezene goes back to the Ottoman-Russian war. Between 1877 and 1879, nearly 400,000 immigrants came to Istanbul after the Ottoman-Russian war, and the number of homeless, sick, homeless children and beggars increased in the streets. In order to gather the beggars in Istanbul, the orphaned children in the streets, the orphans in the mosque courtyard, and to reform them, to make them art owners, the king of the time. Abdulhamit Han Darülaceze issued a decree to establish his establishment. As a result of the examination of the edict, the construction of Darulaceze would cost 72,000 taels of gold, and it was decided that it would be appropriate to be built in Okmeydan. Padişah II. Abdulhamit gave away his personal property worth 70,000 taels of gold to pay for the establishment of Darulaceze, and also 10 thousand gold liras in cash. Other than that, 50,000 gold liras have been collected in lottery arrangements. So with the construction money provided on 6 October 1892, the Darulaceze institution was completed on 19 August 1895, and was officially inaugurated on 31 January 1896. The municipality of Darülaceze is located about 30 acres. In the institution, not only Muslims, but Christians and Jews remain. The mosque, the church, and the synagogue, are together in the garden of Darülaceze, which is not found in any land of the world, and is one of the places of worship of great religions. A total of 79,000 people, including 29,000 children, have been served by the Darulacezedeh, religion, language, race, class and gender, and elderly, disabled, abandoned children, regardless of the difference. The company's bed capacity for children is a total of 695 (s) for adults, 50 (s) and 645 (such as 645). As of today, there are 29 children's homes, 174 women's residents, 343 men's residents, and 546. All clothing, housing, food, health care and care needs are provided by the institution for residents who serve under the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and the service continues for 24 hours straight. Residents are treated with protective health care and treatments at the institution, in situations that require further examination and treatment, and in hospitals all kinds of medical treatments. With rehabilitation services provided at the institution, people are tried to adapt to social life and motivate them. The institution is based on the Darulaceze Order. Its budget is an institution with a private budget and a corporate personality. The institution's income is made up of donations by charitable citizens, the rent income of Darulaceze property, the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality and other municipalities' entertainment tax revenues, 10 per cent and other revenues. Dear President, the esteemed lawmakers, who have been forgotten by the union of the mission of respect for the creation of the Darulacezen, and the symbol of solidarity that they carry, will continue to be the life insurance of poor people, and I salute you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Fighter. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Bingol MP İdris Baluken, who asked for a comment on the problems of Bingol. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I have made a commitment today to inform the General Assembly on a final application in our province and to create a new basis for discussion about it. We know that in the last month, there have been some studies carried out in Bingol Governor's office regarding the removal of 800 temporary village rangers under a plan that the Gendarme Command would like to implement. As if that wasn't enough, we know that 299 rangers were sent again in Young Town, that a total of over a thousand rangers wanted to be reinstated, that they wanted to be armed. This practice itself has grown to an increasing extent -- especially with regard to debates, negotiations and dialogue in the last month, a policy that is going to peace -- aside from the expectations that exist. According to reports again, there are also plans in Dersim. That 600 village rangers have been sent and that the villagers are being tried to become rangers. Now, here, the government -- the AKP government -- has to decide that you've started a debate about negotiation and dialogue. You're implementing some policies to be determined from Prime Minister to government officials. On the other hand, you're taking this ranger system to re-arm thousands of people and forcing it on the villagers. Now, this isn't fasting or sauerkraut. If the next process is negotiating, you have to explain to us what this re-arming move means. The problem we face is a problem created by 90 years of denial, destruction and assimilation. There are numerous riots about this problem, and countless massacres that have been lost to tens of thousands of people. In particular, in the last 30 years of conflict, from the villages that were burned down, from the villages that were evacuated to the unsolved murders, to the burning of the forests, you need to know what sufferings that geography has experienced. So you need to make a decision about the one foot of this, the ranger system. If the new process is to be the negotiation process, the dialogue process, we expect you to be the project for the removal of this ranger system, the re-inclusion of the rangers to social and social life, to be put down their weapons. You have created an army of 80 to 85,000 rangers from 85 to this day. You've seen there's nothing to be done with this ranger army. From the massacre of the wise village to the smuggling of weapons, the Parliamentary General Assembly is aware of many of the complications brought by this ranger system. Again, this year in my constituency, especially in Karliova, in Bingol headquarters, you all know about the attacks on our people's workplaces, their homes, the Bingol County Organization, but you're still taking a thousand-man guard crew to the projects of restoring the armed elements to social life instead of bringing them to jobs. This will do nothing but increase the suffering, the trauma that exists. We are never hostile towards the rangers. When we get to the area, we know that 90 percent of the rangers with guns want a solution, a peace process to develop, and in exchange for giving up their weapons, they want a guarantee of livelihood, employment security, re-enactment of social life. So, what your government has to do is -- there are research proposals that we've given -- I want to say that the conservation system is now being removed, and that the solution is to meet a concrete step forward for this dialogue-negotiation phase. Of course, I would like to point out that the issue, in general, is not only about protection, but also about the establishment of a commission for research and justice to examine all the details of the 30-year conflicting process in the past. At Bingöl, unemployment is now 20 per cent, migration is 100 per cent. If you do a survey, you'll see that the peace demand is 100 percent. So, give up these dangerous games... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If it's not implemented as government policy, by the initiative of the local executives, without your government's knowledge, without any knowledge, there's some planning going on, I'm saying you should conduct investigations into these local administrators. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, who asked about the electricity problem in Şanlıurfa, and the non-payment bonuses for farmers. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0006par0043	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, why did I take my word about the problems of Urbana? As much as I am an Istanbul MP who was born in Şanlıurfa, who received his life's water in Urbana, (Applause from CHP rows), it is our duty to address the problems of Şanlıurfa, because we are legislators of the entire country under the Constitution. We also look forward to the days when we will solve all of the problems of Şanlıurfa, in the rule of the Republican People's Party, and create an unprovoked province of Şanliurfa. What is the problem with Şanluurfa? When we immediately count them under the headlines, half the Turkish community earns a living by farming. However, most of the factories' raw materials are also derived from agriculture. However, our Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel, uses the most expensive fertilizer, uses the most expensive agricultural medicine. In particular, our former Minister of Health Akdağ is here today. The government is always complaining about the low population growth in Turkey. Yes, Şanlıurfa is at the top of the cities where population growth is the densest in Turkey, but Sannlıurfa, who contributes to population growth, is being punished by the AKP government. In children's hospitals, three or four children sleep in the same bed in each bed. In that sense, you will tell both citizens to have children. You will tell them to put four or five children in the same bunk bed together in the same bed. Even the child who came in healthy, with a contagious disease... you make children miserable, you leave them to die. This must first be increased because the number of children's hospitals in Şanlıurfa is inadequate. Secondly, you are also victimizing our women in Şanlıurfa because of the birth at the birth hospital, along with child profiling. Why? Because in Şanliurfa, the highest birth rate, the maternity hospital is inadequate, and the capacity must be increased. In Şanliurfa, all cotton support bonuses and other grain support bonuses have been reduced by 30 per cent. For example, in the past, the grain support premium was given to 1 ton of corn, and now you've dropped it from a ton to 675 kilograms. You dropped the wheat from 600 kilograms to 450 kilograms. You dropped the cotton from 550 kilograms to 490 kilograms. What's the point of that? Finishing the Turkish peasant aims to deliver the village to imperialist, capitalist countries. So you don't produce anything, you consume it, you take everything from the outside. You're pulling the citizen out of the production chain and on your way to the consumption chain. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We haven't seen camels since the last 30 years -- because I'm from Urbania -- but when you go to the animal market, the camels are mostly for sale. Where did these camels come from? He came from Syria by illegal means, and because of the illegal arrival of animal prices, our Urban citizen and animal manufacturer are victims of this. It's about illegal electricity; electricity goes out in the summer, electricity goes out in the winter. Is it the fate of the lucky one to face constant blackouts? In fact, the other day in the countryside, in a four-day area where the power was out, the Ministry didn't take it seriously... I'm reading a letter from one of our chiefs: I am Şanlıurfa Province, Suruç Province, Upper Yaylatepe and Upper Attacks, Sultanköy neighborhood chief. In our village, sir, we don't have drinking water, we're draining well water. We only have 50 or 60 people in our school in the same class. The constant roads of our villages are muddy, and the problem of teaching, the problem of education, the students are taught by 50 or 60 people in every class in Urbana. The teacher's staff is missing, the doctor's staff is missing. At the same time, TOKI does not invest there, TOKI sells empty land, does not produce cheap housing for citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In a country that is a social state, it is also against the law of the TOKI (TİKI) to sell land while the TOKI (TİKI) should produce cheap dwellings. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. On behalf of the government, Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0008par0059	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Off-the-book talks have expressed some opinions, suggestions, regarding Bingal and Şanlıurfa, one of our provinces in the east and the southeast. I'd like to make a brief assessment of them. In the past, of course, with long years of neglect, in fact, these areas are unfortunately below the Turkish average. Many factors, of course, have affected development, development in these areas, from geographical conditions to the situation where Turkey is facing trade zones. However, during the AK PARTY rule, the east and southeast were given a really big deal. Especially in public investments, these areas have come across more serious investments than ever in the history of the Republic. In a sense, the capital of our glorious GAP province, where we make a lot of investments -- if our deputy goes, he'll see for himself.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0009par0062	I was just there last week, Minister, let's go together.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0008par0063	...I strongly suggest you go to Suraç. We are now building a tunnel 17 kilometers [17 km] in Suruç. The main channels will be a project that will hopefully bring life to Suruç Plain with different investments.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0009par0064	I'll give you the letter from the local head of staff, Minister.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0008par0065	On the other hand, our 50,000 hectares in the Plains of Harran, due to false irrigation in the past, are sadly in danger of being salted. And in that area, we're trying to collect with agricultural reform, we're fixing this old mistake, we're bringing 50,000 hectares back into the economy, hopefully. And in our new projects, we don't allow what we call "violent irrigation" in any way. We're running our projects in the field with pressurized systems that won't cause that salting. Again, we are building the main channel below which we call the Main Canal. We've watered 50,000 hectares at the Ceylanpınar facilities with only underground facilities. Our agricultural activities continue intensively in Şanlıurfa, and our Ministry of Agriculture has given significant support to this region. In 2002, we only supported our $110 million farmer in Şanliurfa, while in 2012, this went up to 693 million Turkish lira. There's been an increase in agricultural support more than six floors. In 2003-2013, four billion, 174 million dollars of agricultural support was offered to our farmers, and that's an important number. Again, for the first time in this period, our Ministry of Agriculture has provided support for projects that contribute value to rural development support. In this case, 183 agricultural industrial facilities have been completed, which have been given $41m in grants. We also gave $35.3 million in grants to purchase 5,004 machine equipment. Again, we make serious investments in our University of Harran; we value infrastructure, education because there is a rapidly developing population in Şanliurfa. Every year we see the population growing rapidly. In fact, we give special importance to our Ünlıurfa province in our education grants. Of course, they may not come back in a year. We'll get a lot more in the midterm. Our town of Şanlıurfa also holds very important values in terms of tourism, cultural tourism. At this point, we conduct what we call the Ministry of Development, a program called the Caspian Centre. And here we destroy new structures to reveal historical tissue, to reveal traditional tissue. We conduct these studies both around the castle and around Halil İbrahim Ders. Again, important mosaics have been detected from the Roman era, called the Halepli Garden. A study of an open-air museum to evaluate them is conducted through our Ministry of Culture Tourism channel. So we continue to work in a multi-directional way for the development, development, development of the Sanliurfa. We're doing the same in Bingol, and we're doing a lot of public investments to increase jobs and speed up the development process. It's practically a construction site right now, Bingol. In 2002, there were only two miles [5 km] of double road, and today we have a double mile [30 km] in Bingol. We're rebuilding our hospitals. Our state hospital is now under construction. Our oral dental center is under construction. Our 50-bed hospitals in our districts have been built in Karliova, in the youth, in Solhan, in both of them -- almost finished in one -- in Adıkak. We're conducting these studies in our different counties again. We're making serious investments in our university. We've turned our college from almost zero into a campus air today with about 6,700 students and a serious academic staff. In a few years, I hope that a student population over 10,000 will have won the title of a university city in Bingol. Again, we're building an airport. Since Bingol is in a relatively remote region, we also make this investment to provide fast transportation to large centers, to encourage investment, and also to ensure that many of our fellow citizens who live outside Bingol will have easier access to Bingol. Hopefully, he'll start serving within the year. Like we did in Iğdır, in Hakkari, like we did in Şırnak, we're doing investments that have never been thought of in the past. We also brought call centers in the IT sector in Bingol, which is also subject to employment. We have two call centers in Bingol right now. A job, including our young girls, is built only by this call center channel. Animalism is important to our Bingley. In this framework, our Meat and Fish Association had a worn-out, worn-out structure for years, and we're renovating it. In a few months, our work will be done, and we think it will be a significant contribution to the livestock industry in particular. We're also working here to brand and present the Bingol roast to society.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0010par0075	Get an opening on Ranger employment.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0008par0076	And the irrigations are important. We had a dam called Gulbar, a dam that had been paid for years. We've reanimated him in recent years, and hopefully we'll be done in a little while. In addition, we have completed the tender for a pond in our area of Karliova, called the Kale Pond, which will soon begin. We do similar studies for our other regions, for our locals. Natural gas, of course, is important to Eastern Anatolia. In this regard, we have made a tender for the line that covers the provinces of Bitlis, Mush, Bingol, and will go to Tunceli. Engineering studies are over, production tenders are over, and that's another important project to be carried out next semester. We have a lot of other projects, but I don't want to extend them for the duration of our House's work. Our only goal is to increase employment in peace, security in these areas, speed up the development process, and provide the best services that our citizens deserve. And we're doing everything we can to do that.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0011par0080	Mr. Secretary, you haven't said anything about these rangers.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0008par0081	I hereby salute your High Council.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0012par0083	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0013par0084	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0012par0085	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0013par0086	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, under Article 69 of the Civil Code, he has proposed to me an opinion that I have not proposed. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0014par0088	What did he suggest? What opinion?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0015par0089	Did he say something you didn't?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0013par0090	Yeah. It's about Glory, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0015par0091	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0013par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Dear Minister, the cleaning, environmental arrangement, maintenance, restoration, information directional plates, regularly, all of these flaws remain, still unresolved. In terms of tourism, there's no drinking water in any of the tourist areas in Şanliurfa, there's no toilets, there's no cleaning, and there's not even a sign on the roads about those tourist areas. Our former Minister of Culture and Tourism is here. He said, "Yes, we will make amends when I talk to him about these matters. " It's still missing. In the area where the university is located, our students at the university are experiencing a great deal of difficulty with transportation. We have 15,000 students there, but because the school is far from the city, because of the lack of transportation, students are either unable to go to class late or there is a great deal of trouble. We urge you to do so to Şanlıurfa, just as you do to Ankara, Istanbul, the subway, the tram. The number of deputies you received in Şanlıurfa is higher than Istanbul, Ankara, when you compared the population. So you see the glory in your pocket? But the Şanliurfa are also aware of it. Really, you get the vote, you don't serve. Why don't you make a cable car from Fort Şanlıurfa to Balıklöl? I mean, why don't you want to turn it into a tourist town? Indeed, you ignore them in terms of both belief tourism and the contributions that the cable car, tourism can bring to Urbana, and you do not provide the services that Urbana deserves. He's not worthy of bad government. Indeed, there is a misfortune in the case of Urbania.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0016par0099	You'll be the mayor, Mr. Mahmoud. You'll do the service there.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0013par0100	In the same way, about clean water, he's still drinking water from the well waters of Sanliurfa. So which of our 81 provinces is drinking from wells right now? I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0017par0103	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0018par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0017par0105	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0018par0106	Mr. Minister has made some statements regarding Bingöl. For the information of the General Assembly, I'd like a brief word on a few matters.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0017par0107	Here you go, Mr. Bauken, and fix it.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0018par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we've brought up a very original topic here today with the General Assembly. Regarding the rangers' staffs in Bingol, a more than a thousand rangers are again being forced by the AKP's government to join the Bingol villagers. What does that mean? So on the one hand, you're talking to them, you're talking to them, you're talking to them, you're talking to them, you're talking to them, you're talking to them. You're telling the villagers that we're going to form a task force from within them. What does that mean? We asked him. Here, unfortunately, Mr. Secretary didn't answer those questions we asked. However, the people of Bingol are waiting for the answer to that question, and they believe that the answer to that question will be decisive for the future process. Otherwise, we keep informing the General Assembly of investment, employment, general services by your government. We'll come back here and do some more briefings on that, but Mr. Secretary here said something about the Gülbahar Dam, about the airport, that's not true. The Gülbahar Dam has been under way for 17 years and is still unfinished. It takes ten years of your administration and the last few years of your term as Minister. The airport was started 17 years ago, and in nearly 17 years, Turkey was left with almost no airports, but it is still at an unfinished stage in Bingol. The things you've said about agriculture -- so let's go to the villages of Bingley today -- I was there last week -- from the price of hay to the road being closed, the Minister can come here and make clear the problems that the farmer, the Bingol peasant, has experienced. A city that imports trucks in livestock, especially before the 90s, is now almost at the latest in livestock. So we bring them here in detail, that's not a problem, but today we've specifically expressed what these rangers mean and whether your government has a policy for the future process. We didn't get any answers about that either. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0019par0116	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment's promise to our lawmakers who have entered the system according to the Civil Code 60. Mr. Corporate, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0020par0120	Dear President, dear lawmakers, let's not forget the job killings. Not from memory, but from workplaces, from working life. Yesterday's explosion in Antwerp shows that everything is in place in this area, that the employer, capital and government front is not moving their fingers. Today is the anniversary of the explosion at the firecracker workshop in Davutpaşa in 2008. There's still no justice after this explosion that killed 21 people. The latest court report shows responsibility for the mayors, the Ministry of Labor, the BEDAS. Let's see if the real criminals get a trial. It is also the anniversary of the explosion that took place on February 3, 2011 in Ostim. Similar blindness, kindness, and injustice also occur here. We don't want explosions from workshops, furnaces, factories, jobs killings. Let's raise our voices as citizens and deputies to stop business killings, natural gas disasters, January dents, all kinds of explosions that killed our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0021par0125	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0022par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. The Turkish nation has so many sons that when the nation falls, their struggle, their inflexibility, their fearlessness is the flag on the path for generations to walk. One of these faithful individuals is Baku-born Mehmet Emin Raszade, a great son of the Turkish nation. Mehmet Emin Raszade was born in Baku, 19 years ago. He is the founder and first president of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan. Mehmet Emin Raszade, who dedicated his life to the independence of the Turkish nation, also led the imprisoned nations by acting with freedom and sovereignty of the nations. Mehmet Emin Razzade's life of fighting for freedom, rights, Azerbaijan and the Turkish nation ended in Ankara in 1955. Once the flag rises, it will never land again. After its death, Azerbaijan became a reality when his flag rose again. May his soul rest in peace, his place in heaven, and his cause be divided.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0023par0132	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0024par0135	Mr. President, I've mentioned the problems of temporary workers working on the State Railroad here before. Sometimes workers work for a month, sometimes three months, trying to bring bread home, and when they get sick, they can't even afford to go to the hospital. State Railways 5. 847 employees from the District Department are temporarily employed. In the past years, these workers were gradually recruited to begin with with the most day-to-day workers. Now, there's a study by the State Railway General Directorate. The General Manager is preparing to recruit high school graduates from temp workers. So, he's not the longest employee, but he's prepared to set a benchmark for his education status. Two thousand days of work, an elementary school graduate, a temporary worker is not allowed to take part in the staff, while 200 days of labor are available. The elementary school and junior high graduates oppose this unfair application. I demand that the State Railways' General Directorate give up this reactive practice, and all temporary workers struggling to survive with great hardship will be put on staff. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0025par0139	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0026par0142	Mr. President, thank you very much. The government now investigates novels, which are the common heritage of the human treasure, through municipal education, by means of the district national educational departments, by means of the so-called petitions to the parents, which have removed education from modern norms with 4+4/4. Not long ago, Vasconcelosun's novel "Sugar Orange" was found obscenely investigated. Last week, a so-called investigation was launched on the complaint of a parent regarding the novel "Semerkant" by the famous writer Amin Maalofu. Of course, the Prime Minister takes the laptop in his hand and raises left-wing students, ODTÜ people... we grow new generations with computers. He repeats his lie very often. There's no need to petition parents, if you want to move Turkey back a thousand years, make it clear, but if you read Amin Maalof, you'll really be aware of some humanity, human values. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0027par0147	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0028par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. For a clean world, for clean water, for a clean environment, the Ataturk Dam has not been established in all districts and districts bordering the borders of the Ataturk Dam. Mr. Ministry, when will the treatment facility be established in municipalities and districts bordering this Ataturk Dam? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0029par0153	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0030par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Under a regulation published on July 31, 2012, the regulation on the Control of Great Industrial Accidents was postponed from 18 July 2012 to 1 January 2014. The regulation defines the sanctions and restrictions required in companies with dangerous substances to prevent major industrial accidents and in the event of possible accidents. However, why did the government feel the need to postpone the regulation if it is sincere to repeat the promise that necessary measures will be taken each time regarding business accidents and that legal arrangements will be carried out immediately? What does it mean to the government that 25 of our soldiers were killed by the explosion of ammunition in Afyon, the explosion in Davutpaşa, the death of 11 workers after the explosion at the HES construction in Gökdere, the fire at the AKSA facilities in Yalova, which led to a major environmental disaster, and, finally, eight people lost their lives in the explosion in Antwerp? Are these deaths just going to be a statistical number?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0031par0161	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0032par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ahmetçeli Bridge, the only transit point linking the villages of Çanakkale Province, Bayramic, to the district of Çanakkale Province, has been severely damaged and irreparable due to the rains that rained in early December 2012. The bridge over Karamenderes Tea, which separates the district from the seven villages, has become unusable, and our villages have suffered a great deal of damage. A period of about three months passed, but the unused bridge has not been repaired yet, and the new one has not been started. For this, in health, education, the prevention of all needs and victims, and in the winter conditions... what is the fault of all these people, of our seven villages? And immediately, this 15km, when the bridge in Bayramic district was built...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0031par0167	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0033par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Two days ago in Adana, 70 - year - old farmer Hasan Şahin committed suicide by killing his disabled daughter and wife and by jumping off the balcony. First, my condolences. These cases are rapidly increasing in our region because our farmers are miserable, unemployment is a record level, unpaid checks, bonds have reached the limit, credit cards are increasing rapidly. In the ten-year period of power, it is evident that the AKP had brought Adana. While the Ministers of Economics and Development are here, I wish that these practices to Adana be immediately abandoned and increased investments. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0034par0173	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0035par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Generally, the Serhat provinces continue with violence, with negative winter conditions in the province of Mush. Given the GDP of the districts, it's almost heartbreaking to see the pain with all its nudity, given the fact that agriculture and animalism have reached its point of end. It is known that there is no food and no hay, and even if it is found, it is expensive. We're going through the days when white hay weighs over $1. However, the local people suffer from the fact that the trade of animals stops, and when you want to sell it, it's almost free. This brings the attention of the General Assembly, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0034par0178	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0036par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as it is known, 25 of our children were killed by the explosion of military armory in Afyonkarahisar. Since September 5th, families of martyrs and public opinion are still curious as to the cause of the explosion, and if so, they expect to be announced the procedures and expert reports on their responsible ones. It's our government's duty and our government's duty to make this situation clear as quickly as possible and to comfort our fallen families in some way. Honor Fikret Dülger, the father of Dülger, who is also a martyr in our province, and Dülger and his family of other martyrs expect this matter to be cleared up as soon as possible, and it is our duty to try to shed light on that matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0037par0185	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0038par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there has been a new regulation on the adoption of KEY payments, housing grants, extradition to the rightful owners by regulation of Article 662. Under this arrangement, all shortcomings must be completed by 31/12/2012 and the list of rightful owners must be determined. However, because of their transfer to the Ministry of Health in 1997, the servants of Butler Health Care High School were unable to make these lists because their financial files were lost, and they were unable to receive what they were owed. About them, here, I'm making a request to the government's authorities. We think they should be provided with the help needed to obtain housing benefits for the servants' health and professional high school because they're all officers and they're obviously working there. About the housing aid...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0037par0191	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0039par0194	On 29 January 2013, Manisa CHP MP, Salihli district, expressed the flood and distress of the villages of Yeşilova and Beylikli. The bridge between the village of Yeşilova and Beylikli was destroyed in the flood due to heavy snowfall on 27 January 2013. This bridge was built in 1997 by Beylikli and Yeşilova villagers of their own means, without projects, in the form of vents, so it couldn't stand the rains. Now that the water level is too high, the bridge will be repaired in a while. Instead of such bridges without projects, such places, such as Alaşehir Tea, with much openness, must be built on concrete bridges on the basis of stakes. Authorities are interested. A temporary suspension bridge is being built to ensure the passage of animals. In addition, the prime minister's office has been transferred from AFAD to the province of AFAD. The permanent bridge will be built as soon as possible. The village of Yeşilova, which was passed over the collapsed bridge, was damaged by this flood. The Isale line, which provides the drinking water of the village of Yeşilova, has been repaired one day after the flood of the flood, with its special administration and co-operation. To provide additional drinking water for the village of Greenova...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0040par0199	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0041par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. On Sunday evening, we lost seven citizens in a field of grass, when the wall fell as a result of a landslide. May God have mercy on us. There were wounded, we wish for healing. Indeed, in the city of the landslide, not just the field, but the public hospital, the university, the TOKI buildings, and many official institutions have faced the same danger, I'm afraid. We thank those who strive to save and help, here and thank all those who have not left our people alone. I invite the government to be more concerned with a common sensitivity. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0042par0207	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0043par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. For a long time, the subject of paying our Manisa villagers for their subterranean waters with a pre-paid meter was very disturbing, especially because they were very uncomfortable with the closure of their drilling, their artizian wells, those who didn't wear this amount of $2,500 by February. I offered you a law on that. This morning, my law proposal at the Agricultural Commission was combined with the law proposals of lawmakers from the ruling party. Despite all our motions, we would like the DSI to pay these meter prices, editing and insurance fees. While the Republican People's Party tried to comfort the farmer, the AKP simply tried to avoid the election. I'd like to present this to the attention of all our farmers.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0044par0214	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0045par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations to the government for starting a new practice. The summer airport is now in Turkish literature, meaning the winter airport. The Iğdır Airport is part of the summer airport class because it's been open since it entered the winter months, although it's a new airport, unfortunately it's stayed in the summer airport class and the planes can't land because it doesn't have a smoke machine. We expect a statement from the government on this matter. When we told the Minister about the budget earlier, he said something very cheap, we'd buy it right away. But the people of Iğdır are still victims. Will the minister bring a statement to the concept of this summer airport? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0046par0221	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Unuvar...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0047par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the flag that rises today will never come down again. It is the 129th anniversary of the birth of Mehmet Emin Lezade, who lays the throne in the hearts as he called it. Mehmet Emin Lezade is the founding president of Azerbaijan, but he is a statesman who has cost the entire Turkish world. However, the value of Turkey and Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) means the same to one another. As head of the Turkish-Azerbaijan Friendship Group, I wish him God's mercy, celebrating the birth anniversary of Mehmet Emin Lezade, an unforgettable figure for the Turkish world. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0048par0228	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0049par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Turkish-Syrian border has been completely turned around. It's become a borderline for any kind of smuggling. Therefore, there is a serious security and security problem at the border and in the region. In the region, our citizens have become concerned with the safety of lives and property. As a matter of fact, in different parts of Turkey, nearly 200 ▪ vehicles were stolen or taken under the name of rentals and smuggled to Syria. How did these vehicles get across the border? When our citizens want access to these vehicles, Syrian dissidents demand money in return. Some of these vehicles are used in smuggling and war by tearing down doors. We're wondering how the government, which is tasked with protecting the citizens' property security, intends to deal with the damage our citizens have suffered. In particular, our citizens demand that the government take precautions on this matter.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0050par0235	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0051par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, remember Azerbaijan and the great poet and writer of the Turkish world Mehmet Emin Eposzade on the anniversary of his birth. I give him our thanks and thanks, and I ask God's mercy. In addition, farmers and animal manufacturers in Tokat are in a very difficult situation right now. Especially our farm brothers, animal manufacturers, are in the position to give up production altogether. Animal manufacturers take their animals out of their hands and can hardly buy them hay, which is why the government is urgently expected to support them in this way. Farmers also experience a very difficult time in terms of the high price of diesels, pharmaceuticals and fertilizer prices, and some do not even have diesel in their tractors, which is expected to reduce diesel prices and reset VAT and ETV, which farmers use. I wanted to express it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0052par0243	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Topcu...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0053par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you today specifically about the problems of non-assigned teachers. We want these problems solved. There are over 200,000 unassigned teachers, all of whom are waiting to be appointed, but they are now victimized, because their test period, the validity of their scores, has only been reduced to one year, which has revealed a victim situation. These exams used to be valid for two years, but now it's a year. We want these taken into account. At the same time, we also wish that technical teachers would be compensated for their suffering and become a respectable profession, a particularly respectable profession of teaching, where teachers are entitled to their rightful position and dignity. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0054par0249	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. Mr. Cherry...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0055par0252	Mr. President, Israeli planes bombed Syria without any provocation. In this case, the politics of our government and the politics of Israel seem to be parallel. We want to know if the government condemns this attack, or if Israel thinks it's in the same parallel as Israel, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0054par0253	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are motions to resign from the commissions, I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the Board of Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs. With all due respect, I do. 30.1.2013 It has been presented to your knowledge. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from membership in the Plan and Budget Commission. I'll give you what you need. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As for the bodies found in excavations around the former prison district of Diyarbakır Sur district, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the 98th, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Institution be opened on the basis of Article 104, and Article 105. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Restoration of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is under way in Diyarbakır Sur district. Excavations carried out in this frame have thus far found 19 bodies of bones and skulls around the former prison walls of Diyarbakır. The excavations in the relevant area are still being carried out and as the excavations continue, the number of bodies are increasing. The bodies found were found in any religious belief (Christian, Muslim, Yazidi et al.) Not according to him, he was found randomly and buried over and over. There are intense rumors and claims among the public that many people who disappeared after being taken into custody in the 1990s were killed and buried in the area where they were never heard from. The Diyarbakır Public Prosecutor's Office and other officials on the matter have so far not given satisfactory information to the public. In light of the issue, investigations and investigations must be carried out seriously. The facts that will be revealed in this matter will be the enlightenment of thousands of unsolved murders and the punishment of those responsible. With the belief that Turkey will contribute greatly to its democratisation, I propose and propose the need to investigate the issue by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like the Constitution to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code to determine the routes of the Şanlıurfa-Habur highway. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] As it is known, it is necessary for a country to develop and develop proper transportation master plans. It is vital that the country's sea and airports, national railway and land-road routes are designed to respond to needs. Turkey must follow the best routes of the fast train and highway projects, both domestic market integration and imports and exports with Syria, Iraq and Iran, which will connect Alexander with the ports of Mersin and Tripoli. However, there are serious concerns about the routes of high-speed trains and highway projects for the Southeast Anatolian region. Especially in the Şanlıurfa-Habur Highway Project, the General Directorate of Highways, NGOs, industrial businessmen in the region, political parties and local governments do not take their opinions and demands seriously. There is a consensus that a second route parallel to the Redtepe-Nusaybin-Cizre Silk Road will be a waste of resources and will not meet the need of Batman and the Siirt provinces. The correct highway route for the entire region is the Şanlıurfa-Karakechi-Imirci-Cınar-Savar-Midat-Idil-Cizre. I would like to request a parliamentary investigation into Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır, Mardin, Siirt, Şırnak MPs who will be actively employed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliament research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, which are 20km away from Iğdır Province, the risks carried by the Metsamor 1 and 2 nuclear plants and the consequences of a possible explosion and the negative effects of the plant on its living life and its environment. The Metsamor 1 and 2 nuclear plants, 20km from the Iğdır province and located on Armenian territory, ranked second to second in security among 146 nuclear plants around the world according to International Atomic Energy Agency standards. Founded by the Russian group in 1978, the Metsamor Nuclear Plant was wrongly assessed while it was still under construction, and only the result of the Spika earthquake in 1988. Nuclear plants should be at least 90 kilometers from the settlements, while the Metsamor Nuclear Plant is 20 kilometers from Iğdır, 50 kilometers from Erivan. The meteor nuclear power plant is standing right next to us and is about to explode at any moment. According to scientists' data, the entire east of Turkey will be affected by a possible explosion at the Metsamor Nuclear Plant, which will take place within just a few hours. The impact of the explosion will change depending on the wind's effect, but within two days the impact of the explosion will reach the entire west of Turkey, even Europe, and within 12 hours all eastern provinces, particularly Pain and Erzurum, will be affected by half the country in 48 hours. As a result, the GAP will be useless for years. The plant found on the Pain Mountain fault line will cause a complete disaster even if an earthquake of 5.5 magnitude occurs. As a matter of fact, even at this moment, the power plant's harmful effects are seriously worrying the public. The water used to cool the plant is returned to the land from the Arpachay and Aras rivers. Many radioactive leaks from the plant threaten human health. According to Iğdır County Agriculture Directorate's data, in recent years, animal births have been increasing, and again, there has been a major increase in cancer diseases and birth rates resulting in low birth rates in the region. In the fruits and vegetables that they grow, the public expressly sees the effects of the radioactive leak. When the wind blows from the east, our citizens who live in nearby villages can't even go out on the street because of the stench spreading to the environment. The Metsamor plant was not installed in accordance with Western standards, nor was steel armor at least two metres thick enough to cover the plant's core. For all these reasons, it is important to investigate its negative effects on Iğdır and its life around it, along with the risks that the Metsamor Nuclear Plant is carrying and the disasters that it can cause. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal for the 19th Amendment. I'll read it and process it, and then I'll put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 31/01/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 24/01/2013 by Balıkesir MP Ahmet Silver and 21 MPs, Turkey's Parliamentary Research Motion (664 rows) was issued to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly on 24/01/2013 to assess "the advantages and disadvantages created by Turkey's global position in new conditions." lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Thursday 31/01/2013. In favour of the proposal, Balıkesir MP Haluk Ahmet Silver. Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0056par0411	Mr. President, under this motion of investigation, we have intended to look at the new conditions of our world and region, to assess these conditions under our humanitarian and national responsibility and point to solutions and exits for our country and our world. Our world is in such a great spiral of change that in ten minutes we won't be able to reflect them in enough size. However, short assessments will address problems, dangers, and solutions. The initial assessment: OECD (OECD) report in early November 2012 predicted that the average global growth of 50 years would be 3 per cent, while the actual growth would occur in Asia, which means that today's developed countries have an estimated growth of less than 2 per cent. In short, for developed countries in the next 50 years, a period of very long recession, even poverty, is expected to be left behind or relative to its current state in the world scale. All indicators of this detected situation are available today. Actuary figures of the West provide just the beginning of such a development. In other words, the developed countries of the West are about to lose the sustainability of their economies and prosperity levels. The United States and Europe have completed the year with low growth rates, unemployment rates are high, and the situation is at risk of resection and crisis at any moment. Asia has the highest growth rate in the region. Southeast Asia is able to compete with the countries of the world because of its unique population, the production and consumption capacity that has never been seen before. With this geography, the scale economy, the world's 1st R&D investments, cheap labor and great markets, it continues to attract world capital and with the power of competition, its almost devastating effects. For three years now, the world's world champion in the markets is Southeast Asia. No world company would prefer a country of 50-60 million to a country of 1.5 billion when investing. Thus, these conditions constantly lead to greater growth in Southeast Asia than in other geography of the world. This process has led to the growth of a single region of the world in an alternate environment at an indiscriminate rate, and it continues. When the current conditions and expectations are clearly described, the question arises: Will Western civilization and its hegemony give up its advantages over hundreds of years, its high terms of comfort and prosperity, its sense of superiority? In other words, how will the West react to the prospect of a negative future that he personally identified and reported, when he had weapons and interference tens of years ahead of his new rivals? The world has changed rapidly in the last six years. The words of the monopolar world are about to run out. The national government is over. We don't hear it anymore. We don't hear it anymore. The liberal economy is the only option. They don't say that. State intervention in the economy has also become widespread in developed countries. ▪ Michromyllism must be supported. Its rhetoric has begun to be removed from the words that need to be chosen. Praise for globalization has lost its speed. Ideas have become common since the monopolar world balance has ended and is being replaced by multipolar world order. This is the truth under the resistance of the government in Syria, which is called the Arab Spring. In Syria, the new poles faced the one polar world of the past. The United States is preparing to shift its military power from the Middle East to Southeast Asia. As the United States and India began to build against China, Vietnam, Cambodia and the Philippines began to adapt their foreign policy with concern that they could be protected from Chinese oppression. India and Japan are increasing their arms spending. Japan began to discuss a possible war with China through the Senkaku Islands and Taiwan, and its constitution is changing. The contrast in Southeast Asia is that the countries of this geography are economically integrated around China, while they are increasing their cooperation with the United States in security and defence. In fact, it would be logical to look for the preparation of a regional integration project that will stabilize the rising Southeast Asia, behind the transformation movement in the Mediterranean, called the Arab Spring. The same fiction is behind increasing unrest in Africa and the beginning of the deployment of the strategic partners of the West into these geographys -- like us. What we need to emphasize is that China, where we can now equalize the economic size of the United States, maintains economic growth at 7 to 8 percent, even in crisis environments, for themselves. That's why regional tensions are increasing, the arms are accelerating, the race for influence towards the source zones of distant continents is heating up. This process is a result that is accelerated and fed by globalization. The economic growth and extraordinary growth of one geography, according to other geography, and the tendency and practices of the West to abandon the real sector have resulted in today's global balance. So that the current situation involves all kinds of risks for all parties. For myself, the process that I've watched and analyzed for years is very important for itself and for reasons, for the future of our world and for the environment of peace. We believe that the solution to this process for all parties in peace is the emergence of new regional integration fields of several countries, which could be alternatives and rivals to this economically elevated region in the world. The world needs new regional economic areas, my friends. This is called regionalization. The regionalisation solution, which we looked at and discovered years ago, is now being discussed on the agenda of the developed countries. To us, to endure the rise of new regional integration fields around the world would be a compromise for today's hegemon countries. It seems only in this way that the advanced can maintain their development in peace, though. In these circumstances, we think that regionalization should be considered as the creations that industrialised developing countries can participate in and perform. The underdeveloped will be able to benefit from such things as increased sales of raw materials, costing and improving the advantages of buying. In regionalization, the regions will serve the world's balances as they provide homogenesis within themselves. For Turkey, regionalisation and integration should be done with relatively stable countries instead of unstable countries. Regionalisation and integration can only be done with stable countries. Economic integration is an open market. However, political crises and instability may also be the subject of this trade. The phenomenon of instability is also contagious. Thus, seeking integration in the south of our country would no longer be suitable for the needs of Turkey's Western world or the needs of the East. The subject of regional integration alternatives is well available and potentially high in our nearby geography. It does not mean to evaluate the potential, to give up the deal and the cooperation. Hence, a new regional integration environment should not necessarily be seen as giving up the European Union or opposing relations with the EU, co-operation. Thank you all, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0057par0428	Thank you, Mr. Silver. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel against him. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0058par0431	Thank you. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've been promised a parliamentary survey of CHP Group's new regional integration projects. As you know, in this important issue of foreign policy, the Prime Minister said that once the policies of the European Union went bankrupt, we would build a Damascusn. But then he talked about the Damascus expeditions, and now he's talking about Shanghai. The prime minister, of course, often calls the day, and brings us such projects because he says so. Imperialist alliances, active, disseminating foreign policies have never brought good to our country, to our people, and will not bring any further. But I think such a parliamentary investigation will help to see the AKP government's mistakes. I, in particular, would like to talk about this -- in particular -- to ensure that our country's facts are seen, except for the Prime Minister's agendas. The concepts of justice are the most important agenda of our lives. As you know, within the past week, the director and member of the CHD has once again drawn attention to the arrests and arrests of lawyers, lawyers, and the law enforcement of our country. Again, in the Prime Minister's group speech yesterday, lawyers can't be interfered with! Get out of here! If he is abetted by terrorism, he will be like honey. The usual despotic style has shown that problems will continue in this area. But it's not only that, it's not just what the international law says, it's what we say it will be. His speech in the form of rights, law, freedoms, his practices point to a future with no safety at the end of the Prime Minister's two lips. The people of our country are literally dying with the practice of a full police state. The principles of the law are interpreted and applied as they please, with basic rights and freedoms such as demonstrations, communications, media, organisation, and they can be eliminated as they please. Unfair and arbitrary detentions, gathering illegal evidence, even creating evidence, secret hearings, the appearance of police proceedings as indictments, the threat of prosecutors and even defence attorneys in the courtrooms of the past years, even years, the removal of lawyers, the long arrests, the definitions under the name of ▪catalog crimes, the wide interpretation of the concept of terrorism, when we look at it all, what is the name of all of this? The right to a fair trial. Here's a special view of the law that is unique to you, Turkey, and AKP: the latest public-speaking Pınar Selek conviction is the product of such a freak. Fifteen years of trial, three counts of acquittal, the absence of a court president for lack of evidence, the removal of a restraining order from another judge, and, ultimately, a new violation of a verdict, a life sentence, three life sentences. Another example of Turkey's legal history is a full-blown, unseen legal scandal. Here's a privatized, private AKP judiciary and implementation. The common feature of all detentions, arrests and trials is to intimidate opposing intellectuals. And once again, the Prime Minister, in his speech yesterday, made an effort to adjust journalists to the media by declaring them terrorists, and to maintain this threat. What's going on in the Society of Modern Lawmakers, dear lawmakers? We need to understand that. The Association of Modern Lawyers has been asked to be put in an illegal position with these arrests as a result of the same policy. In fact, it was said to the leaders and members of the ChHD: "What is it to do more than you, such as expose Turkish state operations in Syria?" You know, the president of the CHD came from Syria. If you say, "What is he doing there?" we learn that he is in the process of reaching out for documents and records of such relationships. This operation has been a way to put a bat to the C.H.D. executives and stop them. Lawyers arrested have an identity, legal activity, which is to be a follower of police and state institutions who commit crimes, to be a lawyer for the victims, to be shot in the street, to kill for torture. But what they've been told, the questions asked and the interrogation process, is exactly the indicators of this unlawfulness and conspiracy. Look, what's been asked of those lawyers, why are you making their clients exercise their right to remain silent, as you know a constitutional, legal right to remain silent? Why are you making a press statement for Engin Çeber and informing the public that Engin Çeber is a man who was publicly, brutally beaten to death by the officers of the prison guard? Again, the attitude of these lawyers who rejected the offer of security has been reflected as organizational activity as an organisational stance. As you know, these lawyers have been subjected to extremely informal treatments. And let them refuse the gift they're offered. For these lawyers, the law enforcement agency, which is a vendetta, is an example of a hostile and hostile attitude when it is not necessary for a person to take blood, spit at his consent, take out the prosecutor, give manipulation information to the public, and not be informed of what he is accused of these investigations, while they are not informed of what he is charged with, while violating the principle of secrecy is completely hostile and hostile. While lawyers are not aware that they have been illegally sought and confiscated without a prosecutor or a bar official, they are falsely informed of what they're charged with, and they are even exposed to an unexplainable charge, such as an agent. Of course, the Prime Minister shouldn't be expected to understand these things because they, these lawyers, have already earned them as the criminals of the terrorist organization. In his eyes, he deserves more than such lawyers. Such a period in our lives has never been before, when justice, law, fair judgment, fundamental rights and freedoms were suppressed by the concept of fucking terror. What our country needs is an emergency democracy, an immediate evacuation of prisons, an immediate adoption of a constitution that determines the democratic fundamentals and the common life of our peoples based on peace, if not the Prime Minister. By March, you either take it out or I do what I know. It's obvious that it won't be with the kind of threats he says it will be, and that's why it's a dream to wait for the AKP government to do so, as if they're looking for tears in the dead eye. Once again, I say to our citizens who watch the House, to fight together to win the democratic foundations, the rights and freedoms that our people need urgently, equality, peace, brotherhood, a country of life, I offer you love and respect. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0059par0447	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. On the other hand, Iğdır MP Sinan Okan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0060par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the parliamentary research motion to assess the benefits and disadvantages of Turkey's global position in the new conditions given by the Republican People's Party. I salute your high council. Dear friends, before I begin my words, I'd like to make a point. In Turkey, sometimes you can talk for hours, or you can talk about something for days, but you can use a public expression, a proverb, a public expression, a phrase, one sentence, the whole issue is understood. From that point on, I condemn those who willingly insult Turkish police who give their lives for Turkish country these days, and I say, "You may have read it, you may have become a deputy, reading only takes ignorance, and donkeyhood remains! Remember that. Dear friends, Turkey must first determine its current situation, its current conditions, its global location. What position is Turkey today, and what is Turkey's current situation? That's one thing to know. However, I can see that the Justice and Development Party would not be too keen on this proposal by the Republican People's Party and would reject it from the present, present view of the Assembly, but I think our Parliament should consider the potential that Turkey is in, and I think our Parliament should look into it. Why does he need to investigate? When you came to the government ten years ago, Turkey actually had a relationship with its neighbours, it had the potential to do some integration in Turkey's region. However, at the end of the decade, you are left with only one left to go to integration, which is the municipality of Barzani, where you are proud of it. You held a joint Council of Ministers meeting with Syria, and as a result today, Syria and Turkey became enemies. You are developing trade with Israel, but you are seen to be enemies with Israel today. In Iraq, territorial integrity was our basic principle, and Kerkuk was our essential, but all you had left was Barzani. We can already see that tomorrow's turn will come to Iran, and this neighbor, whose trade is high, is close to hostility. The events in Georgia show that since you have returned to that geography, Russia is already preparing the infrastructure for a change in governance in Georgia. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is a foster son to you because right next to us, the Greek Cypriots are looking for oil and natural gas; what you can do is, unfortunately, our Piri Reis ship -- our ship -- is being sent there. Although Bulgaria, Greece, is in an economic crisis, it is still able to point fingers at you from there, valued lawmakers. Now, while this is the view with our neighbors, with many different formations in our region, did you enter the European Union in 2004, 2005, day-to-day shooting fireworks in the middle of Kızılay, and now your Minister of the European Union has given up hope of everything that I might be running for Mayor of the Metropolitan Mayor of Istanbul? Well, can we have a say in Arab geography? Yes, in Arab geography, we could have had a say because it's an Ottoman land. While the Turkish mission is still there, it's impossible to say that we have a lot of friends there because you are eager to become the subcontractor of the U.S.A. That's right, the world's rising power is China. But without seeing China's hegemony in East Turkistan, its invasion there, it is not possible to say yes to a fair rise in the region without having taken care of our descendants. First, we need to see and accept the truth of East Turkistan, East Turkistan. Well, it's going to be the 21st century Turkish century. Where's the promise? So, where is the Turkish world from Albania to the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China? That's a long way back. Why? Because you already have a serious allergy to the word Turkish. It was expected that a government who wanted to remove the word Turkish from the Constitution, of course, had no knowledge of the Turkish world, had already pushed the Turkish world back into the background. Dear friends, Turkey has high potential. The region's rising power is Eurasia, and it is a Turkish union that will be formed in that region. However, in order to form this Turkish union, first, there must be a power in power that has the Turkish national privilege and is owned by it, which unfortunately is not possible to talk about that kind of power today. Of course, the rise of China, the rise of South Asia, must be carefully followed. But this pursuit, as Mr. Prime Minister put it, is not going to happen by waiting in line to become a member of the Shanghai Co-operation Organization and opening a mouth to Putin, China, and others. You, first of all, must exist in the region. In order for you to exist in the region, you must first take the word "Turkish Union" into your mouth in order to carry out any integration project in the region. Of course, a government that does not pursue the ideal of the Turkish Union, which is uncomfortable with the Turkish people, cannot be expected to do so. But, whether you agree or not, there is a Turkish truth in the world, there is a Turkish world rising in our region, and despite you, this Turkish world will eventually form a Turkish union. Hopefully, this will be the power of the National Movement Party. So let's put these things on the table here in the House. The parliament will be no more than a place of insult to the Turkish people, precious MPs. This bench has reached a moving point, especially in the last few days. Unfortunately, by people like the Assembly branch of the Kandil....that you have co-operated with....the bench has come to a place where insults have been poured out on Turk....to everything that Turk knows is worthy of. Let's talk about Turkish unity, let's talk about the Turkish world. Let's talk about Turkey's survival, Turkey's rise, the Turkish world, its unity with the Turkish world, its integration with the Turkish world. Today is the 129th anniversary of Mehmet Emin Lezade. I hereby remember him here with mercy because he was a worthy figure who worked for the Turkish Union, an important figure in the establishment of Azerbaijan. In the language of the great Turkish thinker, Ismail Gasparalı, come here on the matter of co-operation in the thought, let us first carry out the matter of co-operation in the parliament. It is not possible to build valuable friends in a Turkish world where Turkey looks so closely to Turkey, where Turkey looks so far away from Turkey. Turkey needs to clear its view of the Turkish world here, first of all, the Turkish union will surely be formed one day, and the Turkish world will surely become a united one day. But for that to happen, Turkey would have to be a pioneer in order for that to happen immediately. Turkey must prioritize its foreign policy alternatives to this point. But today, unfortunately, Turkey's first priority in foreign policy is to become co-chair of the Great Middle East Project. The goal of the Great Middle East Project is not to raise Turkey, but to make Israel a safe port in the region, making it a safe port. There is certainly no way that a government that cannot say "I am Turkish" or "The State of the Union" can do this, but whether you like it or not, the Turkish Union will surely be realized, the idea of the Turkish world that Ataturk believes in will surely come true. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This won't take long, and hopefully, in 2015, it'll come true with the power of the nationalist movement. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0061par0476	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Against him, Ankara MP Seyit Sertjelik. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0062par0480	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the parliamentary research motion on the regional alternative search of the CHP. I salute your high council. In Turkish foreign policy, regional alternative search for the EC PARTY has been concentrated by the government's coming to power. Political relations with different regions and countries internationally have provided opportunities for new economic and commercial opportunities. In this framework, Turkey's activity in running regional business units, which have shown an active presence in unreachable areas, has raised its reputation in the Western world. As such, Turkey has gained the capacity to take on the inter-economic media function. Regionalism until recently expressed part of the reaction to the global economy in a narrower frame, but economic regionalism, which has expanded in recent years, is perceived as deep integration, as expressed in economic circles. Now, regionalism is, in a simple sense, not the liberalisation of trade, but a broader approach, the integration of economic policy, internal law and institutions. Deep integration has gone beyond lifting customs taxes, increasing trade, goods, services and capital. Such integration focused on removing investment barriers and developing regional production systems. Turkey has made significant improvements in its EU integration efforts over the past decade in joining regional troops, and has had serious experiences. Our country is already working on alternative regional formations. For this reason, the heavy and destructive effects of the world's economic crises in other countries have not been felt in our country. In Europe, where we are inextricably part of the economic crisis, however, the political and social effects have been increasingly felt, as well as our EU accession process is another issue that we closely follow in terms of the future of Europe. However, the ever-expanding foreign policy horizons of Turkish foreign policy over the past ten years have forced Turkey to monitor all developments on the global scale and contribute to increasing possibilities. With that respect, Turkey's foreign policy agenda in 2012 included a much wider spectrum beyond the developments in our nearby region. In this framework, Turkey developed its relations in a broad geography from Africa to Asia-Pacific region, from Latin America to Oceania, has shown increasing activity on all regional and international multilateral platforms and has led to global initiatives in many ways. The most fundamental basis of Turkey's active and dynamic position in the international area is the primitive and visionary character of our foreign policy. In this framework, Turkish foreign policy has a realistic and systematic quality that sees international co-operation as an effective, multilateral, priority goal, which can integrate its values with its interests, develop integrity and pre-responsive approaches from a narrow and reactive approach to issues. Naturally, the strong state structure of our country is one of the main factors that make it possible for us to successfully implement such a foreign policy, which is increasingly solidified and more important in the global conjunctive. As a matter of fact, Turkey today is viewed as a success story and an inspiration throughout the world, especially in our region, and this positive perception is significantly increasing the softness of our country. In other words, Turkey has now reached a position where every small, large country wants to cooperate and cares about its views. At this point, perhaps most importantly, we will continue to act in a sense of foreign policy that one of the main objectives of our foreign policy is to open the way for our people inside and out, especially in a way that deals one-on-one with the problems of our people, especially with our citizens and relatives who live abroad and our business world. As a matter of fact, the removal of visa applications with many countries, the implementation of regulations that facilitate bilateral trade and investment, the quality of consulate services to our citizens abroad, and many new steps have been examples of foreign policy practices that have affected our lives in a positive way in recent years. Our government will continue its primitive foreign policy, active and visionary stance with the same decisive will, and Turkey will continue to play constructive, effective and decisive roles in all aspects of international relations as a trusted and respected member of the nation's family. Turkey, which followed an active foreign policy after the end of the Cold War, has had a difficult process due to economic and political crises in the 1990s, has been a country that has increased its economic performance in the past decade and has attracted attention to its high progress in foreign policy. Turkey's new foreign policy is carefully and greatly monitored in the centers that define world politics. Turkey's ability to conduct an ambitious foreign policy within its own agenda has recently been a subject of numerous scientific studies in a region with crises at all times. Dear lawmakers, there is a point to remember: Turkey, which was set on its agenda about ten years ago, has now become a country that shines its star and sets the agenda of the world. When we look between the world's standards of development, perhaps there is another point to consider: Ten years ago, the number of countries that we could enter without visas was as low as the fingers of one hand, and today more than 60 are able to enter foreign countries without visas. Turkey has indeed become a shining star of the world, with its emerging economy and its foreign policy in recent years. During our official visits, we can say that we can feel at ease the frustrations of foreign diplomats during talks with Turkish statesmen. I would say that some of our ambassadors were disturbed by the look of foreign diplomats -- Turkish diplomats -- at meetings abroad ten to fifteen years ago -- but these days, the situation is completely reversed, they are disturbed by our country's developing position, and it is easily felt at the desk. In this context, Turkey has gained great importance in its foreign policy, and its economy has brought its debt to the IMF, and we can even say, for the first time in the last 150 years, we have achieved our financial independence with the AK PARTI governments. In this context, I say that I am against the research motion given by CHP, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit01spe0063par0491	Thank you, Mr. Toughness. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Adana MP Necdet has been nominated as a candidate for the 1 membership of the Justice and Development Party group, which is empty in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked 1st in the Turkish Parliament's Charter. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked third in the 3rd place, under the Law of the Organization for Higher Education. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 329 rows. On the whole bill, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0064par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party, and I salute you all. On this occasion, we wish the new cabinet members the best of their mission. In the ten-year period, the AKP's ruling 4 National Education Minister has aged, and today we are in the presence of the Grand Assembly with Mr. Avcı, the 5th Minister of National Education, and we will take the new process together.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0065par0023	You must have forgotten the two-month ministers!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0064par0024	Every Minister of National Education of the AKP's power has tried to implement independent educational policies. Not every minister who sits in his seat has dropped the terms in his mouth, such as quality in his education, or PlSA, or OECD countries. In practice, policies that don't correspond to these phrases have shot themselves like boomerang because their policies have no sustainable quality thought or vision that they've developed. We've made some of these wrong policies on this bench over and over, but we think it's good to be reminded again: The attitudes and situations that have offended school administrators and teachers have been displayed, and the general body of institutions, executives and educational community has been worn out. Without the necessary planning, the school's registration age and weekly hours increased and the time of our young ones at school increased and became victims. This has caused reactions in some families. The facts have been ignored by their explanations, ignoring warnings about actions. The system did not establish positive communication environments by looking for criminals; teachers, administrators, parents, unions were declared guilty. In the field of education, violence against both the student and the teacher has not been able to maintain the employees of the Ministry of National Education. Apart from solving the appointment of teachers as partners, the issue has been made inextricable, and has been unable to manage this process, which has led to the disintegration of families. (x) 329 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. After the warped transformation, confidence in the Ministry was shaken by false policies, such as the birth of more class teachers, denominating executives into extras, implementing wrong solutions, such as field change. An enormous structure, such as national education, was tried to be governed by a narrow framework, ignoring the opinions, suggestions, warnings of the representatives of this structure, ignoring the corporate knowledge and experience. These mistakes have left behind broken hearts and broken morale. However, wrongs are not limited to these. There's an Alo 147 Teacher and Executive Complaint Line, founded by the Ministry of National Education, which annoys teachers and directors. While all decisions were being tried to be student-based, the teacher was almost ignored. Hello, 147 phone lines, thousands of teachers and administrators have been humiliated by unwarranted accusations and reports, and investigations have followed one another. I'd like to give you an example: a parent who called the 147 line complained that the principal had taken the school supplies in a truck. The parent who filed this complaint and slander was asked for evidence and video without asking for it. You've been driving things from school every day at night; please write back. The principal of the school is calling 147. He asks for the owner of the slander, but this information is not shared with him. Please put yourself in the position of this school principal, whose pride and pride are being played. Another example is from the teacher: A parent complains that the teacher is abusive and insulting his child over the Alo 147 line. The principal of the school is starting an operation on the complaining teacher, which student has been insulted, let's investigate it. But the Alo 147 line says we can't give names, it's confidential. What's the principal gonna say? Hello, 147 does not serve the purpose. Now, even the students threaten the teacher with a 147 complaint line in the classroom. As for the appointments, the Ministry of National Education does not comply with any plans or programmes in the work. The speed of changes made by this Ministry has not been kept up. Aren't there any rules? When teachers are appointed, whether they have periods, how many are assigned, what are assigned from the majors, what are the needs of the system, when they're appointed partners and they're appointed to apologize, no one knows anything. Yesterday, there was definitely no appointment this year, and the next day, the appointment was made. Do politics change every day? Let's reminisce about the 4+4+4 process and the changing policies: The Law was adopted at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on March 30th. It was approved by the President on 10 April, published in the Official Gazette on 11 April and entered into force. As a result, mandatory education has increased from eight to twelve years. Education institutions have been redefined as elementary school, secondary school, high school. The age of starting school has been moved forward. A special freedom has been granted to purchases for the FATH Project. A grade from the school used at the university was decided to use secondary school success points instead of a weighted secondary school success score. The coefficients used in college have been evened out. A new kind of middle school has been identified as the Imam-seeking secondary schools. In secondary schools and upper secondary schools, there were lessons about the life of the Qur'an and the Prophet. Concerning institutions for application details have started regulations, regulations, generalities, curriculums and so on. Although over a year has passed, the educational system is still facing a serious chaos and uncontrollably complex situation with all its elements. Our Minister, Mr. Avcı, in his first statement to the press in Eskişehir about free clothes, I know that relatively well, we will review it again with the National Bureau of Education. He said I could make a more comfortable decision after I learned the decisions on the grounds of the opposition. In the early days when this regulation was issued, a survey was conducted on the dress code, covering Turkey as the National Movement Party, and the results were shared with the public. The results of this study have pointed out to you earlier the critical situation that we have come to today. If our views were taken into account and examined in detail, you'd be more comfortable to understand where this fire-smuggling regulation was accepted and where it was being criticised in public. Mr. Directors of the Ministry of National Education, if you had gone to schools and looked at the places where the practice was being conducted, you would have seen that this regulation has caused serious problems. During our school visits, when we shared problems with our dear educators, we found that one of the most important problems was the Law on Clothing. In my meetings with my fellow teachers, we came across some very interesting paintings. They think about how unhappy they have become, how this job is no longer a respectable profession, and how they have been humiliated in the eyes of society. Tragical anecdotes about disguises are also described. In particular, it also comes to the attention that our female students are now coming to schools in tights, or even calling them "Zebra-sized tights" in their own expression. And especially for our boys, it's known that they shape their hair up to the color of their suits. And when we talked to school administrators and teachers about it, they could call the Alo 147 line to investigate us in our questions as to why they are not taking precautions. Dear friends, the results are really bad because we've intimidated and intimidated our educators so much that now they're afraid to take initiative even against problems. Education reform is always started by teachers. Such is the practice of all over the world, but in our country, there have been inhuman practices in the appointment and replacements of teachers, executives. There have been sharp and harsh transitions, including more on the appointment of teachers, such as relocations due to the apology situation. The administration of the Ministry of National Education has hurt and hurt executives and teachers, and they have insisted on wrongful practices. In this period, violence by students and parents has also increased against teachers who have lost face with false rhetoric and false practices. We need to raise the teachers that we're referring to the mission of raising future leaders so that our children can reach a national, spiritual, and academic level of target. Today, however, the situation is not bright at all. In the 2012 YGS, 50,805 candidates scored zero. According to the 2012 LYS results, 189,410 candidates scored zero points from at least one point. According to this result, one tenth of the high school students were zeroed out. For those reasons, another is that the schools have been evacuated. Schools have become sign schools. You're trying to raise a scientist who can't follow literature by removing the prep classes of science high schools. You've turned the science high schools, which have raised 5,000 of Turkey's most intelligent students, into high schools that only prepare for college. Straight upper secondary schools are high schools in every neighborhood where the Ministry of National Education flips over to get rid of them. Every year, 50% of their students fail, while only 5% can win a license program. The situation of vocational upper secondary schools is completely pathetic. They've become schools for students who have fallen out of the education system. As for the Anadolu teacher's upper secondary schools, they are also known to be emptied. Turkey's number of teacher high schools was 40 at the most, reaching 245. The number of teachers' upper secondary schools is an interesting contradiction in lowering the quotas of education schools and the removal of second schools. Turning all schools into Anatolian upper secondary schools is one of the biggest betrayals of this educational system just to be able to handle the entrance exams. In addition, many successful students have made transitions from high schools of science to private colleges and open high schools because you changed the school score system in the entry system. Many private schools have pledged a 5.00 GPA to students who are transitioning to private schools. When we look through another window, the results of the college placement show that many universities, especially newly opened universities, are left empty. Physics, chemistry, biology, even the mathematics departments in science schools remained empty. The number of people who prefer the departments of universities in the country is not more than 2, 3. Scores have dropped by about 30 or 40 points. Students who have settled in these schools have only done 15% of the questions. So, when we give you the quotas and the numbers that are settled in some universities, there are some really remarkable numbers: Afyon Kobytepe University's Biology Department quota is 47 students; 1 student established; chemistry department quota 47; zero students established; math department quota 186; 43 students established. The University of Bingol has a degree in mathematics at 114, three students who have settled in. Bitlis Eren University math major 47 is a student who has settled in. Kars Kafkas University biology department quota 77, established 1 student; Physics department quota 57, established zero; chemistry department quota 47, established zero; mathematics department convention 154; established 2nd This has got to be arranged. What does the Higher Education Board do when planning is also a part of the Higher Education Board? The institute of higher education has become a cumbersome institution that has collapsed with applications and proposals for solutions. In the eyes of society, especially in the academic community, it has no credibility. The opinion and decisions of academics were not taken into account in the appointment of presidents and deans. In the past decade, universities have been especially degraded and discredited in society. The essence of academics and university employees has been worsened by the day. The SEC law is still unprepared and has not been brought to Parliament's agenda. While state and foundation universities are opening up everywhere without the necessary planning in our country, we believe that the institutions and departments that will be opened at these universities should show remarkable precision for the country's unity and integrity. We would like to announce again from this parliamentary platform that research units and departments, especially in the language area of our universities, must consider our national sensitivities. We, the National Movement Party, state that language is not only a technical, standard compromise and dialogue but also an interpreter of the mind, knowledge, heart and mentality. The formation of nation's existence, the connection between generations, of course, is life and body with language. The use and ownership of the language contribute to a joint identity construction and defence that will not be substituted. Turkish is the only source of the nation's unity and integrity, as it has security, collateral and basis for its Turkish identity. Recently, local languages have continued their efforts to be placed next to Turkish, persistently and stubbornly. Continuous access to position of primary language education demands indicates that a dangerous, divisive, and exclusive period is rapidly approaching. Let's not forget that a language-based dissolution and division will infect the nation's presence and make it impossible to live together. The absence of Turkish from becoming a major cultural attraction, where the members of the nation meet, agree, share their feelings, will lead to dire consequences and irreparable opposition and confusion. The compulsion of separatist ambitions in education in the main language and the leniency of those in political responsibilities will lead the Turkish nation back to the threshold of ethnic crackdown. To reverse this dark process, it must be acknowledged and admitted that Turkish is one of the most obvious ways to live together and be on the same line forever. Any attempt to weaken our beautiful and rich language, any intent to second-guess it, and any purpose that may attempt to associate it with it, will not be able to escape from crashing into the fortresses of faith of the national hearts. I thank you and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0066par0057	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0067par0061	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group following the bill for the establishment of Saladin Eyubi University in Diyarbakır province. Before we express our views on the law, Mr. Nabi Avcı is celebrating again for his appointment to the Ministry of National Education, and I wish him success in his work. Dear lawmakers, the new Minister of National Education has a tough job. The legacy left by a minister who is not well-known by both the teachers in office and the unappointed teachers is a disaster for the new Minister and our country. There are three problems -- according to us -- that the new Minister needs to be on the agenda immediately. The first is the removal of the negative results caused by the application of free clothes. One of our students called out to the former Minister of National Education: "Mr. Minister, we don't know who enters and goes out of our school with the application of free clothes. " The answer that Minister Bey had given was interesting: Don't let them confuse you. Although, even us, don't send children to school at a young age, it's scientifically impossible. He accused us of being terrorists when we said that he was a terrorist. The minister clearly has no knowledge of the country's economy. If he knew, he would break even among the children, expose the gap between the rich and the poor -- he wouldn't try to hit the school clothes industry across the country -- for millions of dollars -- he wouldn't start free clothes. I hope he's awake from his sleep. The other problem before the new Minister, the esteemed MPs, was that there were no appointment of apology for the spouse condition that caused the family integrity to deteriorate. We've been informed by the Prime Minister's statement at the group meeting that the appointments will be held in February. We are happy for our teachers and their families who are waiting for this news because they have made the right decision and turned back from the wrong. Once a year, the former Minister's insistence to keep the spouses away from each other, to make teachers -- without thinking about the consequences -- to change the field, to take a step back, but to take a step back, to give the problem a different dimension. Dear lawmakers, the third and biggest problem the Minister has to deal with is the condition of non-assigned teachers. It is the expectation of teachers who can't be appointed and who can hear their cries, to end this persecution, to end the torture as soon as possible, to all the candidates for teachers and their families who have mobilized all their resources for them. I'd like to remind a Prime Minister who says, "Don't let the mothers cry." Mr. Hunter, I would like to inform Mr. Hunter that we will do everything in our power as Republican People's Party to resolve this problem. The Minister's job is very difficult and difficult. It will take time to correct the damage caused by the previous Minister's sole interest in national education, but anyone affected by the circumstances I've said is waiting for a solution. Dear lawmakers, education is important, and national education is the lifeblood of our country; decisions that have been made must be considered very carefully and analysed well. Just as one of the foundations of the building is missing, the reason the building is destroyed is the result of a wrong or incomplete decision in national education. As Mr. Hunter put it, education investments are regulations that occur ten to twelve years later. Mr. Hunter, I suggest that during the AKP administrations reconsider the decisions made by national education and the systems they changed. As he put it, ten or twelve years, the decisions that have been made don't last even a month. Mr. President, you must have experienced your youth in order to manage the NGO and National Education. If you can't live up to your age, you'll be drawn to negative directions in future decisions, future steps. If you don't appreciate the young people's opinions, you don't understand what they're saying, you think they're against you, and you see every word you're told as a bullet and you react more. Dear lawmakers, do such rulers exist? Let's look at our Minister of Transport. The Minister of Transport says: "I first visited Boğaziçi University. Next thing I know, it's a different world; different buildings, walled space. And then, in his garden, the young people are sitting with boys and girls, and I was very surprised, and I said, "I'm going out of the way here." I said, "Because the Minister has such a thought, there's no way he can understand the youth's enthusiasm, its purity, its cleanness, and its endless energy. Mr. Prime Minister sees youth, especially university youth, as a group that only swears to applaud him constantly, by responding fairly strongly even to reasonable demands. We can clearly see it in its reaction to the events of ODTÜ (ODTÜ) prior to the launch ceremony of the celestial satellite. In fact, his hatred and hatred are so great that despite the ODTÜ 1st place in the Project Contest of Radio Television Verist in Çamlıca, he has given the project away as third in the competition. Dear MPs, the commission has not been given sufficient information on Saladdin Eyubi University, which is expected to be established in our Diyarbakır province. Who is the foundation to build this university? What educational activities has he had to deal with? What are the financial resources of this foundation? It's obvious that these are not explained enough and that they need explanations. The research causes the poor assessment of the study process, the lack of well-prepared infrastructure, the expected benefit from universities to be damaged, the waste of the country's resources. We, the Republican People's Party, express our support for the establishment of new universities every time we speak. The universities contribute in economic and social ways to the cities and areas where they are founded. Our opposition as a party is that there is not enough funding for universities as a result of lack of planning, not new universities. In recent years, the foundation universities have been established by a commercial mentality, not by an understanding that aims to make money, but by making money in its name. It's obvious that our newly established state universities don't have enough resources. These concerns need to be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to give you a few examples. Founded in 2008, Ardahan University was widely located in the media as a one-bedroom university, where the university's chancellor and assistants worked in one room. In fact, an interesting incident had occurred; its slogan was to blend into the light. The Ardahan University Rector, who said, "If necessary, I will set up a university in the tent." He applied to the Ardahan branch of Kızılay, but it turned out that there was not a single Kızılay tent in the province. Mardin Artuklu University had a 5m Turkish lira budget in 2008. Five million Turkish liras only went to stationery and cleaning costs. The fact that our universities are now better off day by day, their education and budgets have increased according to the institutional stage, does not destroy the resource and time loss in the institutional stage. Therefore, it is vital to the institutional stage that universities are established by leaving sufficient resources. In addition, newly established universities suffer from a serious shortage of faculty. In order to address this, our proposal is to increase the amount of staff under the Teacher's Education Programme, to start a higher education campaign, to be given a staff for all of our young people who are applying for a master's degree and a doctorate. This could be a solution to the problem with the professor we're experiencing. Dear lawmakers, now I would like to give you an example of the drafting and implementation of the budget by the AKP: the question I've submitted regarding the stationery set that the OSYM passed during the examinations, according to an answer given by the former Minister, the cost of the test set is 1.14 Turkish lira per person. A total test fee from 1,904, 101 candidates applying for the exam is 46 million, 193, 365 Turkish liras, including the VAT. The stationery set costs $2,70,675.14, and this is taken from candidates who took the exam, not by the SNS. It is not only the stationery set, but the preparation of tests, suppression of question booklets, packaging, transport, examination applications, all kinds of organizations, examination staff fees, evaluation of test results, announcements to candidates and current expenditures on overall management costs and investment spending are also taken from candidates who are taking the test. It's a good thing our country is a social state. We're such a social state that we take money from our young people who struggle for bread and life and pay them all the expenses, but when they ask us a question about the test, we show the coldest face of the state. Thank you to the Justice and Development Party, after the idea of advanced democracy, here's an advanced form of social state for you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are either the worst or the worst in most of the basic indicators of education compared to Turkey, OECD and EU countries. According to the OECD Review Education 2012 Report, Turkey is third to third in terms of the population of people who have reached university education as of 2010. 67% of the population in Korea, 59 per cent in Japan and Canada, and 20 per cent of our young people in Turkey have gone to college despite the number of universities that we have kept up for the last 20 years. According to the same report, 39 per cent of young people are expected to complete four years of university education in the future when the OECD countries are averaged. In Turkey, it is 25 per cent. The OECD average is 31 per cent compared to the population of higher education, while Turkey is below the average by 13 per cent. Increased university numbers can be written in the House of Success, but the real success can be caught by increasing quality while increasing the number. Over 80 new universities have opened in Turkey in the last ten years. The real problem is the capacity of power, which says it's focused on its 2023 target. It is unlikely that you will be able to do so with this budget that you have set aside for higher education. In higher education, horizontal growth is dazzling. Fifty more universities can be opened at this rate, but there are serious weaknesses in the depth and research function of universities. Instead of being thematic when universities are established, the easiest is to be preferred, which is that there is an institute of higher education in every province, but there is no actual university. If we were to list our general assessments of the current status of universities, the budget system of universities is changing, but the bureaucratic administration continues. Their funding is limited, but there is talk of financial autonomy. For 20 years, colleges have spent their most important resource on staff. 60 per cent of university budgets are staff expenses. However, 20 per cent go to investment, building, machinery and plumbing. Most of these are classrooms and office expenses, so it's only a scrap of money to look into college budgets. AR-GE, the university's own RD project, scientific research projects, its source is linked to rotating capital, and if the return capital increases, the BAP projects will increase. Ninety-three percent of university revenues, except for last year's returnable capital, are treasury benefits. He only had 7% income from student fees. Now the fees have been removed, and his income has been limited in that sense. The removal of the allowances is a very right decision, but it is wrong to make the university dependent on non-infinity, only resources from the treasury. A master's degree, a master's degree, a doctorate can transfer treasure to universities per student count, a separate budget, which can only be used for universities' RD activities. Financial regulations don't even provide enough revenue to give colleges maneuverability. Financial autonomy has been completely destroyed. Let's buy universities, dairy, yogurt, fucking beef, let's see, let's sell it in sacrifice, let's make a profit. The higher education budget has been at 3.5 per cent of the central budget for the past ten years, but its share in national income has been reduced by less than one per cent. There are $500 billion exports in your 2023 targets. Is that possible? It's not possible with that head. At what level of information, at what level of research are you going to do what you're saying? You only know how to paint. In 2023, you have to take advantage of the power of universities to raise $1 trillion in revenues to $1 trillion, and you have to see that goal as an export production of $1.5 trillion. If we don't have the level of information to produce it, we'll import it, we'll import it. And that means open, poor, being the market of other countries, being colonized. The number of universities is increasing, but the budget for higher education and universities is dwindling in national income. The number we're talking about isn't even 1%. When you look at the rate of the RD numbers in the countries we're competing for, you can see about 3%. How are we going to compete with 0.97 percent of the budget and not even 1%, dear friends? On average, 60 per cent of university budgets are staff costs. The total budget size of higher education is 15 billion. About 10 billion Turkish liras are staff costs; 3 billion, purchases of goods and services, social expenditures or so on, and the rest is RD. Your share to RD is a scrap in the university budget, dear friends. Colleges have become institutions that are only teaching and seeking to meet the growing demand for higher education, trying to respond to intense student fatigue. RD is one of the main functions of the law. Thus, with AKP's policies, our country will continue to produce and consume as Westerners. A poorened growth, loans, debt and imports -- steeply supported -- and the appetite for consumption remains. People want to consume, that's normal, but still a significant part of loans are individual loans for consumption. 1 kilogram of exports in Turkey is worth 1.5 dollars. In Germany, this is $4. Ours isn't a job, it's a real mover. If this continues, RD, we will continue to move as long as the university budgets are so stingy, unless they have high-end products, high-tech, funded production. When we look at the percentage of the budget to higher education and national income in Turkey, it is 0.94 per cent in 2003; 0.97 per cent in 2013. As you can see, I raised AKP's higher education budget like this, so I increased it. It's a huge balloon. The national income rate of the university budget has only risen from 0.94 per cent to 0.97 per cent. Without RD and innovation, you can't make quality, production and exports high-tech in college; you can't do RD and innovation without increasing the university's share of the budget. And for RD and innovation -- and I'm underlineing it -- you need a young man who's qualified to study art and culture, who has imagination, who questions life. So what is it? There's no way you're going to get far enough in RD and innovation with a committed youth. Little by little, when you face some facts, you will understand Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and what he has done. I'd like to thank you for listening and pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0068par0097	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0069par0101	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the establishment of the University of Saladdin Eyubi, which is planned to be established in Diyarbakır. Dear friends, let's start with what we're going to say at the very end. The establishment of a foundation university in our city as a Diyarbakır MP is, of course, a matter that we will subpoena and support, but if we don't underline our support, the shortcomings, the mistakes, the things that need to be done, we still feel that our support will be incomplete. Dear friends, I'd like to begin with the university ceremony in Diyarbakır. Without further ado, I'd like to explain to you a few very striking figures. In 1969, Diyarbakır Dicle University first started studying in Ankara, where the medical school had not yet been provided enough resources and space. In 1974, its official establishment was completed, and the medical school again began studying in Diyarbakır, and from that date, about 39 years and 40 years passed. Many universities were established in Turkey long after Dicle University was founded, and now there are universities in 81 districts of Turkey. Until just three years ago, the number of students at the University of Dicle was 12,700. This year, despite all efforts, debates, speeches, and criticisms, it was only up to 24,000. So, what does that mean? So, if you ask if the number is less than 24,000, yes, dear friends, there are 90 thousand students of the University of Conium Selçuk, 100,000 students of the universities in Eskişehir, 90 thousand and 100,000! Again, if we compare it to Diyarbakır, you will find that from Erzurum Ataturk University to Isparta Süleyman Demirel University, Diyarbakır Dicle University has been neglected and has been deliberately and consciously blocked beyond neglect. Again, those who have traveled to Diyarbakır and have seen the campus of Dicle University know very well that today the campus area of Diyarbakır Dicle University is one of Turkey's greatest campuses. It is built on 26,000 acres, under which is the Tigris River, the Tigris River border. The entire eastern part of the Tigris River, as I mentioned earlier, is a vast 26 thousand acres of the University of Dicle. Despite such vast possibilities, despite its exquisite geographical status, unfortunately this university has been left behind by a state policy, a state policy that has been deliberately designed, and has been constantly under the supervision and control of these most profound elements, from countererilla to Ergenekon, from JITEM to other intelligence agencies. If there are those who claim otherwise, if there are those who say that this is not so, we have the opportunity to speak with these friends in front of the House with evidence and documents, and we are ready to do so at any moment. Dear friends, the location of Dicle University today has not changed. Now why did we go to Dicle to speak at the University of Salahaddin Eyyubi and start at Dicle? What is the state's view of Diyarbakır? What is the state of education and education in Diyarbakır? What is the perspective of higher education in Diyarbakır? I present this to you. After that, after these findings, I'll come back to my evaluations on the University of Saladin Ayyubi. Because the University of Saladdin Eyubi has no future other than the stories of events that have happened so far. Dear friends, as of today's nature, the Diyarbakır Dicle University is almost angry with the city. What do I mean today by the expression "responsive to the city"? I mean, today, the region has a lot of political, social, cultural, technical, agricultural problems, and colleges don't just care about science or part of the technique. Today at Dicle University, there are chapters from the Faculty of Theology to the Faculty of Pharmaceuticals, from the Faculty of Architecture to the Faculty of Medicine, from the Faculty of Agriculture to the Faculty of Veterinary Art. So the University of Dicle is fully interested in these matters. So, what's he actually doing? First, the city has no serious work on its social and political nature. I'm not just saying that in the context of the Kurdish issue. So let them go out and explain what they've done as a study of the sociological field of culture, ethno-cultural, religious, religious, religious, religious lifestyle of that region. He resents the city; he is closed to the city's political orientation, dynamics; there is no serious publication on this subject. If he had already had a serious publication, today, he would have received an award in the world, received a degree, entered a class, and dealt with the universities of the world who had done serious work on this subject, and could have been collaborative. Sir, let's put politics aside. There may be some friends who say: Let's leave it in quotes, let's get to technical issues, agricultural issues. Today, Diyarbakır has 8.5 million acres, and 4.5 million acres will be irrigable within the next five to ten years. So, does the University have any preparation for this region's agricultural structure -- for example, Israel, France, America, for example, from the world's most advanced gene technology, from its knowledge to its production of seeds -- is the University of Dicle prepared for this region's agricultural structure? If so, where is he? So beyond three or five brochures, is there a study of Israel, France, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, and a future perspective on the region, again, the most advanced countries in the world that I've just named? The urban transformation is being held today in Diyarbakır, between TOKI and Metropolitan Municipality, there are agreements between the province, big projects are being prepared. Does the University of Architecture of Diyarbakır have any work on the matter? In the same way, the Tigris Valley today is the hundreds of years of Diyarbakır's dream, and has entered the Government Programme, but there has been no serious work done so far, is there any project? Let's go a little further. Is there a design and project in terms of scientific preparation, about the spread of drug use in Diyarbakir, the children of the streets, the young people without education -- we're done working again? We can make it even bigger, dear friends. And again, it has the same enormous agricultural potential, animal potential. Does he have any agricultural industry preparations, predictions, perspectives on this? Well, well, a university doesn't care about seeds, doesn't care about the gene, doesn't care about the land, doesn't care about urban transformation, doesn't care about drugs, doesn't care about the Tigris Valley, doesn't care about the Kurdish problem, doesn't care about anything like it's the University of Patagonia, doesn't work on religious issues... today, Ben-i Israel was born of Hazret Jacob's 12 sons. One of the most important centers of Judaism is the region in which Christianity first became a state, a region in which Islam came at the time of Hazret Omar. If he doesn't do some serious work on these things -- religion, religion, faith, opinion, from theology faculty to sociology -- then what does he do, what does he do? It is necessary to ask these questions on the basis of everyone in their right mind, a few more times as a member of the United States MP. This is what I call the dynamics of the city. Likewise, dear friends, the university, which is today being run as a coalition of congregations, is out of the question of all the upside downs in the region, of all the redevelopment and redevelopment. So the deep mind in the state and Ankara, whoever they are, has transferred some issues to the University of Bingol, some to the University of Tunceli. In particular, they made something up at work: the Institute of Living Languages. I say it would be better if they said, "We shot 100 times, we wanted to kill it, it's not over, it's not dead." He bypassed them to Bingöl, and to Tunceli. All the positive work that Mardin Artuklu University wants to do is being cut off, but the center of all these events is not moving leaves in Diyarbakır, so they are persistently prevented from discussing them there. Again, in Diyarbakir, the state sees a university population as a danger to its own politics, as it did in the province of Eskişehir, which is 90,100,000 people. Think of a 100,000-year-old Diyarbakır Dicle University. This will be the center of science and culture of the Middle East in all respects. Maybe he'll get students from Syria, Iraq, and he'll have to. All developments related to the next Middle East - political, cultural, economic, political, sociological, historical, philosophical - must be the centre of all developments. Now, such a Diyarbakır University is founded, and Saladdin Eyyubi, of course, is the most beloved sultan of Shark, with the description of Mehmet Akif, the author of our Islam march. The song has lines that start as "Dearest Sultın Salahadadın", Mehmet Akif Ersoyın, but Mr. Prime Minister has been studying the literature of brotherhood for many years. The names of 103 public universities, 65 foundation universities, 17 university of applied sciences and 13 other higher education institutions found on the website of the YKK are not known until now, nor are any of them brothers or sisters. From Osman Gazi, Osman Gazi's father Ertugrul Gazi, Yıldırım Akıt, Fatih Sultan Mehmet, from the University of Selçuklu to Alpaslan, all the names were given, but the name of Salahaddin Eyubi was given to a university, which also occurred to a Diyarbakırn foundation. Dear friends, I'd like to give you my opinion on this foundation study in Diyarbakır. The foundation of this foundation goes back a long way, so it's a foundation that was founded about 20 years ago. This foundation has had several attempts before in Diyarbakır. Now, no hard feelings, no hard feelings, but if we don't talk about this, clearly and clearly, we're not gonna get anywhere again. These are friends of Diyarbakır Municipality, a land of 11,000 square metres, located near the Dedeman Hotel in Diyarbakır, then we will build a hospital here and serve the public as a foundation, not as a means of profit, but as a service door. They received a very symbolic price. Now, what do I mean by symbolic price? Think about it, the building license was worth 13 billion, at which time the purchase price was 11 billion, at a price less than the registration price, the purchase price of that land today is around 15 million dollars, that's the price today. And this plot has been bought for years, not after it's been bought, but after it's been sort of assigned, at a very symbolic price -- these prices and these values are all recorded in the archives, it's obvious how many times it's earned over the years. Before that hospital was built, it was sold to a business centre today, and there are three large plazas on the site mentioned today. It's not finished yet, it's almost finished, it's under construction. It's not a crime, it's not a crime, they've paid, they've taken. But what's the story with that? This is left in parentheses. I'd like to bring this to your attention. I just want to say, yes, we support everything positive. We're servants of a nail hammerer in our country. We also support the establishment of Saladdin Eyubi University, and we will vote hard, but we have to put all the mistakes, shortcomings, abuses in front of you here. That land hasn't been accounted for until now. The land is in Diyarbakir, the plaza is in Diyarbakir, the purchase date is fixed, the purchase price is fixed, and today's sales value, how it is sold and sold to whom. If we lack anything in this matter, if we have a surplus -- and the ministers are here -- please ask Diyarbakır to place all these documents in front of them on the file. Dear friends, another problem was that a lot of polymics were made about the Local Language Institute. For once, as Kurds living in the region, as Kurds living in Turkey, we see this as an insult, an insult to ourselves. What do you mean, local language? So is it a tribal language, is it a tribal language, is it a dialect? And that, unfortunately, is the determination of the level of democracy that Turkey has come to, so it still can't express many issues to itself properly, so, you know, break them down, say local languages, say living languages, say unkillable languages, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. At a point where the concept can't even be named properly, Turkey, well, the level of democracy is in front of all of you. Dear friends, in the region, as I said, it is imperative that both in terms of scientific contribution to the resolution of Turkey's problems and in terms of understanding and understanding all these new developments in the Middle East. For him, there is a obligation to do serious work on Christianity, Judaism, persecution, Islam, and Islamic medicines of a thousand or so years of Shafii, both of which are the centers of Islamic medres, and of the universities which will be established in Diyarbakır. Because the genetic codes of today's Middle East and present-day Turkey are in that region. So as faith, ethnically, sociologically, even as the economic capacity of Upper Mesopotamia, there is such a centrality as the fertility and civilization of the land watered by the Tigris and Fırat. The work of new universities in this sensitivity will contribute greatly to the accurate understanding of all these issues. Sadly, many of the works that Mardin Artuklu University has conducted today have been undermined as well as possible. The University of Bingöl is treated as a stepchild of the official ideology, where many things are given in the name of science, without scientific root or value, while Mardin Artuklu University is not acting according to the lists set in front of it. Why does it not enter the alliance of congregations, and why does it not go according to official ideology? It is our greatest wish that both the University of Diyarbakir Dicle and the University of Saladin Eyubi, who will be formed, meet with a proper assessment and solve their problems. With these wishes and wishes, we wish the new University of Saladin Eyyubi, with all kinds of applications in parentheses, good luck, and good luck. We follow what is right and what is wrong and what is wrong. My respects.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0070par0125	Thank you, Mr. Tan. On behalf of her person, Diyarbakır MP Friday is sincere. Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0071par0129	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the 329th Amendment bill. There are some who are blessed, and some who are remembered for good, and some who are remembered for good, and some who are called heroes. There are some people, who remain only heroes in history; some heroes, who unite races and nations; they are the chief places in history. Here is one of them, the great Islamic commander Saladdin Ayyubi. Salahaddin Eyyubi, a figure of Islamic geography, Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Indian, who is known, known, and loved by everyone. I would like to remind you that by carrying out the conquest of Jerusalem, the great commander, the great leader of Jerusalem, we will take possession of the trust he bequeathed to all the Muslims of the world as descendants of Jerusalem. We owned Jerusalem yesterday, and we own it today. The commander of the Islamic armies who taught peace, love, and brotherhood to the people of the world after the conquest, as in our religion, brought freedom to all religions, languages, and all colors, and brought them to this day, for centuries, where differences expressed themselves. Jerusalem is humbled today and needs a conquest again. Jerusalem is bowing down and waiting for the Saladin Jobs again. Now the conquests are not made with weapons, but with science, science, art and intelligence. Now, once again, it's time to look at world geography like Saladin Ayyubi. Now, once again, the world awaits the Saladdins. The Saladins who will come out of this geography will conquer and bring freedom, peace, and peace. These Saladins will come out of these lands, from these universities, and from their grandfather's heritage, they will make peace all over the world, and we need it very, very much. Saladdin Eyyubi, the respect and love of the whole world, has a different meaning for our Diyarbakir, and wherever you go in the city, you will find a neighborhood name for that precious person. Therefore, in the name of the great commander of Diyarbakır, a university is opening up at the University of Saladdin Eyubi. Everyone knows that development means growing in many areas, such as economics, science, art, technology and democracy, to increase the welfare of society. Development is not just material growth, it is education among many factors that start and accelerate development. There's training at the beginning of every job. One of the main factors that develops a city is a well - functioning, well - trained university. Colleges contribute in many ways to the development of cities. For example, assuming that a college student from out of town spends at least a thousand liras, each one of the 60,000 students spend a thousand liras a month, that's a 60 million-dollar contribution to the city. If we add not only the students, but the professors from the outside to this, imagine that the economy will change in an instant. Yesterday, we promised our constituents that we would make Diyarbekir a training base for the city of the prophets and the territory. Today, we experience once again the joy of fulfilling that promise, as in every field. After our first university, the University of Dicle, we open the University of Saladdin Eyubi. Next up is the TOBB ETU university, and we've allocated three schools to open in Diyarbakır, so everything's ready. We've also started booking for another private university. Hopefully, our Diyarbakir will have its fourth university, and again, hopefully, our Assembly will provide its support. A rough calculation is that in the next three years, 60,000 students will come to our province when you're proportional to the population. We, the AK PARTY government, produce jobs, not words. We, the AK PARTY, are building a new civilization. And since we know how important education is, we're training the biggest investment. This university will further strengthen our unity, our unity. Saladdin Eyubi University is the first university to be opened in Diyarbakır after Dicle University. In the first place, our students will start studying in 2014, in our school home, where there will be economic and administrative sciences, architectural faculty, theology and health sciences faculty, 1 university of applied sciences and 4 institutes. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have, unfortunately, had a terror problem in our region for 30 years. Our province is one of the rare cities with a population of 1,570,000 young people. Education nests are important for our young ones to become qualified individuals in society. While someone is ignorant of college, if someone believes that they should not study in universities for years because they do not see Kurds as equal, let them not be equal, let them not read, let them not be businessmen, let them not be doctors, let them not be lawyers. For years, even if they have developed the policies of apostatization, the Kurds see themselves as having the rights, the original citizen of this country, the owner and the equal rights, and they answer by reading against those who have crossed themselves in the struggle for freedom, by opening universities. Again, in 1926, someone did not see Kurds as the sons of this country. What he did in 1937, they said, "The Kurds are not equal to us." That was the case in the 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, and 90s. Until what? All the way to AK PARTY power. We have served this country without race, language, or religion, and we will continue to do so. No one is superior to anyone. Look at Çanakkale. Look at Dumlupınar. Look at Yemen. Look at Cyprus. Although some so - called deputies may view themselves as professors, it is not acceptable for Saladin Ayyubi to speak ill of their descendants or insult them. Everyone will know their place; everyone who lives in this universe will know that everyone is equal. That's why there's an AK PARTY. In our ten years of power, we've always done our reforms from education to health, without bringing them to law, with the enlightening, guiding light of science. We've always struggled with the evil thoughts of our young people, the brainwashers. Today, in every part of our country, in front of young people, there are far greater possibilities than the past. While we're doing this, what are Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor Osman Baydemir, BDP mayors, councilmen, members of the BDP county general Assembly doing? Let's tell them what they're doing: they're against schools and universities. Don't look at what he's defending here. They change development plans, convert school spaces into housing areas and commercial areas; they make decisions in the municipal and municipal assembly that block development plans, our investments. In order to prevent the University of Saladdin Eyubi from being built, they did so by triggering both local dynamics and directing members of the municipal and municipal legislature, and they continue to do so. Here, in front of everyone, I report them to the people of Diyarbakir. But we, despite all the obstacles, are opening this university, thank God. The Southeast Anatolian Region and Diyarbakır are the most densely populated areas of our country. However, the opportunities for education and employment offered cannot be said to be sufficient in quality and quantity. This inadequacy in the region is becoming more evident, especially given the possibility of higher education. The University of Saladdin Eyubi aims not only to be an attraction for young people in the region, but to the youth of Turkey and nearby geography. For this reason, Saladin Eyyubi wishes our university, our province, and our country, to be blessed with my regards and greetings.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0072par0144	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0073par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0072par0146	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0073par0147	Mr. orator, they have made a incriminating statement concerning the establishment of a university, against our Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor and our party, against schools and universities when there is no need for it. I want to answer that.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0074par0148	Mr. President, he may have a press conference with the mayor, but here, everyone...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0072par0149	The people of the BDP said, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0074par0150	Well, if he said it, fine, if he said it, but defending the mayor...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0072par0151	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0075par0154	Mr. Elitaş, we know what we're going to do, and we know the Civil Code as well as you do, so we're on the common commission. But here, we support the foundation of a university. As our friend explained this here, Mr. Friday as the Diyarbakır MP, you had a very, very unfortunate conversation, which was inappropriate. Look, Dicle University, you are the first to strike the scythe in violation of the freedom of science at the University of Dicle, where we are most, most dynamically, at our party. You brought in a woman who's running for deputy president of Dicle University. Then, all the academics, professors, important people, who are not in your opinion and opinions, you've eliminated them all. With this record of yours, they oppose schools and universities. Which school and university did we oppose as a party? We said yes to every university that came here, every university that was founded, every school that was opened in Turkey. There is no need for you to go out and vomit on a part of yourselves, when there is a good deed to be done. You should kiss Osman Baydemir's hand. Osman Baydemir is one of the most successful mayors in the city today. He is a city mayor who sets up the best animal shelter in Turkey and sets an example for Turkey, and sets an example for the world, let alone schools, universities. I'm sorry, you can't handle people, you're not doing anything right, you're criticizing someone who can't come in here and answer. That's not fair; we won't let you; you go out, you go out, you tell me in Diyarbakır, if you can. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0076par0159	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0076par0161	Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0162	Mr. President, I'd like word on 69. He claims that we appointed the president of Dicle University, and he made it clear. The MPs don't have the authority to appoint a chancellor. I want to answer.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0076par0163	I don't think he meant your person.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0164	No, he said us.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0078par0165	Mr. President, the AK PARTI MP has been named out of three candidates, even though he received few votes. After they were appointed, all the departments at the university, the faculty, all of them, the opposing parties, they threw them out, they spent them, they drove them away. Oh, if he's lying, then all of Diyarbakır's MPs are here.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0166	Mr. President, the MP can't appoint a chancellor, but he accused lawmakers of appointing a chancellor.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0079par0167	Well, of course he can't. I don't think he meant you because you appointed him, but... Here you go, whatever you have to say...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0170	Mr. Kaplan, I'm so sorry. I'm sorry if it's dry. Osman Baydemir can only build a beautiful animal shelter, and he can't do anything outside the animal shelter, and most of all, he cleans snow, he cleans for an hour, he publishes it in the press.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0080par0172	By God, your tongue...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0173	Diyarbakir is a mess today, and there's a mess going on in front of the Lord Süleyman Mosque. First, you're gonna clean up the streets, you're not gonna change the construction arrangements, you're not gonna fix the plans.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0080par0174	For the past two semesters, the mayor has been in the embrace of the people of Diyarbakir, giving the largest city service.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0175	We're here to document who's doing the planning, who's in the green spaces, so you're the ones who aren't getting schooled. We, the ministry, are sending funds, and your city council members do not allow these grants to be paid. The school is being renovated, replaced, you don't allow it. I'm sorry, but three times this university has been rejected by your city council members. How dare you argue that? That's not true! Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0081par0178	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0082par0179	Mr. President, I just want to say that a city municipality, a metropolis, every civilization in this city with more than a million inhabitants, all religions, all religions, all sects, have lived from the mosque to the churches.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0180	Except mosques, except mosques.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0082par0181	Even mosques, mosques... Your governors didn't approve our budget, the budget of the county council two years in a row, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0183	You can't show $1 million to a mosque.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0083par0184	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0082par0185	For two years, central power has appointed a governor, and your appointees have stepped in front of the service. In fact, we understand very well from the discipline of animals and from the discipline of humans. You will speak carefully for him.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0077par0186	Go, you do the church.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0083par0187	Congressmans, please do not turn the General Assembly into an area of discussion. Then you can go and negotiate. You're very welcome...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0084par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0085par0189	Mr. President, there's a talk going on about the establishment of a university, and they've put everything into politics. I mean, we're building a college here. Now, politics like this: I mean, a university was founded, from the name of the university to how universities were managed, completely out of control, put into a different position. No, Saladdin Ayyubi is Kurd. I don't know. No matter what. There's a name there.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0086par0191	Well, okay. Congressman...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0085par0192	However, if you look at the names of the brothers of Salahaddin Ayyubî, Böri, Tuğtekin, Turanşah. Let them name it, then, and let all those who call it the Kurdt.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0086par0193	Mr. Halaçoglu, please... please, I'd like you to express your views later on when you're on the stand.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0087par0194	Make sense of our teacher's rebellion.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0088par0195	Let the Prime Minister run for mayor and serve well in Diabakir. That's our offer. He's a former city official. Let the candidate win.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0086par0196	Mr. Original, I'll grant your request at the same time. Your position, please. [[Continue]] On behalf of his person, Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu... Here you are, Mr. Ensarioğlu.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0089par0205	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to change the Law on Higher Education Institutions, 329 rows. I salute your high council. As it is known in our country, there are 103 public universities, 65 foundation universities, 7 foundation universities of applied sciences, 13 other institutes of higher education. There are only two foundation universities in the southeast; Summit in Gaziantep, and Hasan Kalyoncu universities. Many universities are needed to participate in international competition and make up for lost years in the past. Therefore, promoting foundations and private universities is a late requirement. Universitys contribute seriously to their cities in information, education, human resources, work and social services. The universities directly contribute to the economic and social development of the city and the region. Universitys are institutions of scientific and technological research that produce distinguished staffs for higher education and education, and serve social and economic development by presenting the results of research in the public interest. It is based on the fact that universities become educational institutions that grow the manpower our country needs, produce science and technology by doing research, lead social development, solve matters through scientific methods, and compete with world universities. Diyarbakır with Dicle University and the planned to be established at the University of Saladdin Eyubi, Diyarbakır will now travel a significant distance towards becoming a university city with the faculty the TOBB ETÜ is planning to open to Diyarbakır this year. The University of Saladdin Eyyubi is founded by the Centre for Precaution, Education, Culture and Health. We thank Diyarbakır for their efforts to open new universities and to become Diyarbakır's university city, and to set an example for the future universities that will be established. The University of Saladdin Eyubi will primarily play an important role in the development of qualified workers in social structure and industry that will provide useful services for our region, contribute to modern education. Now, in Diyarbakir, there is a need for large investments with greater production capacity. Only people with technical knowledge and expertise can develop the Diyarbakır industry. It will increase the capacity of the Diyarbakır industry to do business, at the point where it will be able to compete with the world with its research and breakthroughs. In our increasingly globalized world, human activity is inevitable and in fact desirable. With one foot in his country and the other leg all over the world, qualified young people will contribute greatly to his country and to mankind. If a human resource created by young people can be qualified, it creates the most important source of strategic, economic and social power for the country, otherwise the greatest source of unemployment and social problems. Also, if the fact that unemployment today or unemployment, in other words, poses the most important economic and social threat to society, young people who are trained can be considered to be an effective and valuable human capital. The Southeast Anatolian Region and Diyarbakır are the most densely populated areas of our country. However, the training and employment opportunities presented are not sufficient for quality and quantity. Dear friends, as it is known, Diyarbakır is among Turkey's top 10 largest cities in the population of 1,590,000 people. The city's population is 850,000 and is the second largest city in Southeast Turkey, and the rate of population growth is twice as high as Turkey's population growth. So Turkey's population growth rate is 1.3 per cent and Diyarbakir's population growth rate is 2.7. 53 percent of the population is under 20 years of age. In a city with such a young population, college is very important. Dear friends, after 500 years of Istanbul, Edirne and Bursa, the 4th largest province in economic terms, Diyarbakır today, along with the republic, is sadly in a position where it does not deserve to be followed by policies, lags, and policies followed by the republic's governments. Again, in the early years when the republic was founded in socioeconomic development, Diyarbakır was ranked third in the third place, and it was ranked third in Istanbul and Bursa, while in the 2000s it was ranked ranked ranked 66. But today, in 2002, with the AK PARTY coming to power, this neglect, abandonment, lag is no longer the fate of Diyarbakir. Today, as we all know, the GAP Action Plan is both very important to Turkey... the GAP project is Turkey's largest integrated project, and is the most important project to address the development of the region's problems. By 2007, the energy foot of the Gap had been finished by 97 per cent, while the watering foot, which would concern the main region's economy, was at 12 per cent. The GAP Action Plan, which was implemented in 2007, has traveled a very important distance in five years today, and three years later, the GAP Action Plan will be finished, and only 37 percent of Diyarbakır's total land will be watered in Diyarbakır. Again, 33 per cent of the GAP's irrigation project is in Diyarbakır alone, and more than 1 million hectares in Diyarbakir will water and employ 500,000 people. Diyarbakir is the most important textile centre in the region and Turkey, and even the Middle East, and is a candidate for industrial centre based on food centers, agriculture and agriculture. Again, in Diyarbakir, our government has very important efforts to build roads of transportation, trade routes. Diyarbakır freeway, 13 subgates in Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır-Batman, Diyarbakır-Mardin, Diyarbakır-Silvan, Diyarbakır-Bingöl, Diyarbakır-Elazig and Diyarbakır-Sivrek roads were all double roads, and last year they were all tendered for a warm mix. The total number of services, such as the Landways, is 1 quadrillion years old -- a very high number. Again, Turkey's largest and most important terminal building is held in Diyarbakır, after İstanbul and Ankara. Again, a very large health campus is being built on the construction of Diyarbakir (Diyarbakir) as a health centre. The research hospital is finished, the dental hospital is almost finished, and seven other hospitals are built on this campus. Again, with the urban transformation of Diyarbakir, huge funds for the preservation, restoration of the historical and cultural values of Surichi (Surichi) are being spent and these historical values are being lifted up. With all this work being done, universities and educational institutions are desperately needed. To that end, we put a great deal of emphasis on this university that this foundation has built. In the past, from the Ottoman era to this day, Diyarbakir -- a major educational, economic, scientific and cultural centre -- will enjoy its old days. Again, Dicle University, as mentioned earlier, has very little student capacity from similar universities, while 2005 has increased from 12,000 to 24,000 today, its capacity has been increased by 100 per cent. The name of the University of Saladdin Eyubi is again, but if we don't accept it, if we don't accept it, if we don't, no one can name it, and no one can open this university. The foundation, which was founded 20 years ago, that's not the foundation, that's what Altan Bey was just talking about. This is a foundation founded three years ago. He's talking about another foundation, I think he's confused. This foundation was founded three years ago, it didn't do any work, it doesn't have any land... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...only for the purpose of starting a university. I'd like to pay everyone's respects to the good luck of the university.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0090par0228	Thank you, Mr. Ensarioğlu. Congressmans, Mr. Özgündüz has a request to correct according to the Civil Charter 58, and I will give you my word on the location. Here you are, sir. You may speak at your place.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0091par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in my speech yesterday, on page 82 of the report, sir, you support a group, support the freedom-fighting Taliban, Al-Qaeda, by supporting the selefi elements. My sentence is wrong. I'm saying here that by supporting a group, the Taliban, Al-Qaeda, the selefi elements....... I demand that they be corrected in this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0092par0236	Thank you, Mr. Original. (x) The statement on this statement was found on page 1172 (1172) of the 59th Union Charter, dated 30/01/2013. [[Continue]] Congressmans, I'm going to the QA section. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0093par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Antalian manufacturers are miserable. First the war policy hit, then the natural disasters hit. We found Fiike, Demre, Gazipaşa, Manavgat, Serik, and Serik. The manufacturer is waiting for backup. The agricultural bank's loans must be effective immediately. In particular, business loans used by the manufacturer must be issued as soon as possible for the business and investment loans used by seed companies. Because it is stated that the manufacturers and businesses need to be able to get loans again if they close their current debts so that they can continue their business lives. The producers and businesses who closed their existing debts last year have suffered serious difficulties in accessing the funds they need due to a period of three to five months due to the spread of the support period. I want to know if the government is considering a solution to this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0094par0248	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0095par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish Mr. Secretary the best of luck with his new assignment. Mr. Secretary, you know, in the process of being President of the Commission, 4+4+4 passed, it took effect in April. According to a press report last day, the books on the 1st grade were tendered in May, and according to the old curriculum, the books of the 1st graders were published by that tender and a payment of 12 million,531 000 lira was made, but when these books were distributed in September... because they were brought down from 4+4+4. Since the new curriculum has been declared unfit, these books have been collected and retrialed. You've just arrived at the Ministry, but perhaps our bureaucrat friends know about this -- what about the old books? What about the old books that were paid $12.5 million? Are you going to answer for this 12.5 million? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0096par0254	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0097par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as the Republican People's Party, we have proposed a law. In this proposal, we had a request to establish a university of fine arts in Tekirdağ Province. You know, the province of Tekirdağ, which is a bridge between Turkey and the continent of Europe, is a province with a population of millions, social infrastructure, and the identity of many cultures, particularly the university of fine arts within it, which can carry it very well and well. Our proposal for this law is still in the Commission. As Minister of National Education, how do you feel about our proposal for the law and the opening of the University of Fine Arts to Tekirdağ?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0096par0258	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0098par0260	Thank you, Mr. President. The Prime Minister and the former Minister of National Education said that the average number of students studying in the classrooms in Turkey was 36 and 38. Students who are educated in schools in Şanlıurfa are 55-60, while 130 people attend a class at the Dültrık village Elementary School in the District of Siverek, Şanlıurfa. When are you going to take care of these glorious victims? Question 2: Media reports that the established foundation universities can be transferred to private companies. At the same time, is there a foundation college that's currently sold to private companies -- an American company? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0099par0264	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0100par0266	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you about your friend, a member of the BDP Group, his claims against the University of Dicle: Is these allegations real? That's what I want to know first. Also, it is said that only the disabled, the apologists, and the spouses will be assigned to the appointment of February. He's telling you, he's telling us. We're getting a list of 35, 40,000 people for you and us for February. Do you vow not to back down on this from the previous Minister's decision? That's what I wanted to ask you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0099par0268	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0101par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I wish you the best of luck in your new assignment. I'd like to share with you a message from my computer: I am a student at the University of Manas in Kyrgyztan-Turkey, and we want our problems moved to Parliament, brought to the agenda. We've been through a lot this week, a lot of negative and unfortunate things, and now someone's got to say, "Stop," and take care of their kids, but we see that everyone's on their own. We'd appreciate it if you'd help us as the nation's deputy. We have an emergency problem right now. Four of our Turkish friends have been imprisoned and beaten. Let Turkey claim its children, guilty or not guilty, and be judged by the laws of the Republic of Turkey, and punished. If they're proven guilty, we'll settle for it. But get our brothers out of this situation and stop the insensitivity, the irresponsibleness of this university. We, the Turks, call it enough. If you read this and are interested, I will inform you of our problems. I have your friend's name, I'll deliver it to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0102par0277	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0103par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, good luck. The disabled, who are an important part of our society, also have problems with university education. Of course, many need someone else's help, or they need their homes to be their homes. In Turkey, however, unfortunately, infrastructure is not suitable in this regard. Will you be able to study at the university so that the disabled can study in their homeland? On the other hand, we have this non-assigned teacher problem. Given that we know that there are around 350-400,000, and that the government needs over 100,000, considering that they expect to be appointed in February, and that these children, like us, are depressed because they can't finish college and have the desire to have bread, are you going to have a study based on the record that there are around 35 people who commit suicide and end their lives? Do you plan to make these children a breadwinner, a food-owner, and a public servant? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0104par0284	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0105par0286	Thank you, Mr. President. How are you going to produce science in university environments that have been removed from thinking and questioning by creating only one form of our young ones? How will you create a free environment to defend their rights? Will you provide representation at universities for young people you want to be lawmakers at the age of 18? What do you think of the coup d'état? What do you intend to do to remove the scientific environment from political will and custody? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0106par0292	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0107par0294	Mr. Minister, the tender of the President of the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's EGOGAZ, which was founded in these days after the break-up of natural gas, was held last Friday, and the market value should be $7 billion, while the highest bid was bided at $1 billion 162 million. The main reason for the privatisation of this place was the transfer of Meleh Gökçek to the city of Ankara's debt to BOTAŞ, and funding for the construction of the subway. Since all of these reasons have been eliminated, would you at least consider putting Ankara Metropolitan Municipality under the radar? In the coming days, Ankarans will face heavy bills.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0106par0295	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0108par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. Good luck with your new assignment, Mr. Secretary. It is the duty of the TÜBITAK (TBITAK) established in 1963 for guidance and national science policy to promote science and technology. However, it turns out that the published and sold books of TÜBITAK, which had previously been described as a scandal, were stopped in the book's sales archive and explained the theory of evolution, were removed from the list. Remember, in 2009, Darwin's last article of Science and Technique, and 15 pages in it, were censored by the upper management, the cover changed, and Darwin was out of print on the magazine. The editor-in-chief, who made the magazine's pages for Darwin, signed under the cover, was also dismissed. How will TÜBİTAK, which officially entered the government's chain of command in August 2011, have been hiding within the Government's Executive Decision on the Department of Food, Agriculture and Animal Affairs? IS there any way that TUBITAK will lead science and research in this way? Will you try to fix it again? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0109par0301	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0110par0303	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I would like to thank all our friends who have expressed their congratulations and their best wishes for my deployment. With the support of our friends, yours, their evaluations, their suggestions, their criticisms, I hope we can do good in our ministry. I'd like to thank you all separately. Now, since I've just begun the mission, I can't say that I'm responsible for some of the questions asked, even some of the people involved in the Ministry of National Education, but I'll try to explain as much as I can, based on the information my friends have given me, and in my own knowledge. If some answers are lacking, I'd appreciate it if this could be forgiven for our lack of knowledge at present. I'll try to make it up later, in writing, for unsatisfactory friends. The question that Mr. Acar. Asked about the problems of the manufacturers in Antalya: Of course, the relevant ministers in the government, I know that their work on this issue is due to similar events in Eskişehir, which they are doing, but I am in no position to know what kind of concrete steps they are taking, what kind of measures they're taking, what kind of measures they're doing. If you agree, I'll pass this on to Mr. Secretary of State to be answered in writing. What happened to the books that were returned to these classes, which were not in line with the new curriculum? Now, the training tool for the 1st class has been prepared under the name "Preparation and Harmony Study." All books published in the 2012-2013 school year are used for the 1st graders, and there is no return of any books. In addition to the first-grade textbooks, the training tools produced under the name "Preparation and Harmony Study" are intended to facilitate the integration of our students in their schools. So as far as we can tell, it's not a waste, it's not a waste. There are many similar proposals in the Commission on the establishment of a university of fine arts in Tekirdağ, but these are sometimes submitted to the Commission's discretion to be assessed in a certain order -- so I'm saying the process as former Commission President -- and in the future, our Commission and Commission President will take it into account, respectively. Not only Tekirdağ, but Turkey's a university of fine arts, An architect Sinan. A fine university of arts would surely be useful, I say in general, but in particular, I think we'll also evaluate what there is for such infrastructure in Tekirdağ. Regarding Mr. Tanal's question about the situation at Şanlıurfa and the number of students per classroom, my friends have informed me that the number of students per class at Şanlıurfa is 48 in elementary school and 38 in secondary school.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0111par0309	Well, there's 130 of us in the Ditch village.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0110par0310	He's under the jurisdiction of the primary school-made county government. The elementary school for the village is also required to be put into the private administration's investment programme; I don't know if it's taken at the moment, but I'll look into it, Mr. Tanal. The number of teachers related to Şanlıurfa is as follows: The first appointment in 2012 was 4,867, and a total of 5,508. 1,845 people who left due to the apology, 2,520 people who left in total, so...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0111par0312	How many open teachers, Mr. Secretary, the number of open teachers?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0110par0313	...different 2.988. Right now, the current number of paid teachers -- so you can interpret this as an open number -- 867. Mr. Turkkan has a question. Is it considered to be an open posting in February -- except for the appointment of an apology -- other than the appointment of a spouse? I mean, I'd love to be able to say yes to that question, as much as you would, but unfortunately, in February, I can't promise to appoint any of our young teachers who are waiting, because in the beginning...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0112par0315	We can't hear, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0110par0316	I'm glad it's not coming, 'cause it's not the nicest thing I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0113par0317	Well, sir, tell the truth, we want the truth.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0110par0318	True, but it's not pleasant, yes. No postings in February. In order to remain faithful to the August program that was announced earlier, there will be a series of tests this year, which will also include field information, as you know. Thus, each appointment in February will be deducted from the quota of our young ones who have taken exams, including questions that later take place. This may also be an unfair practice in itself, as it has been announced from the beginning, unfortunately there will be no open posting in February. Could there be discrimination against the University of Dicle? Mr. Tan has already said some very positive things about the infrastructure there, but he stressed that the infrastructure is as necessary and that it cannot be used in an efficient way with the environment, with the region. It's a weakness that can be said for all our universities in general. Of course, we have universities that do this very well, we have universities that have very productive relationships with their environment, but some of our universities or departments are still working in the air of some sort of ivory tower. I've asked for information on how much of the departments at Dicle University have done and how much they have not done with the environment, but we have not yet received the information, but there is no doubt that the particular neglect of Dicle University or any of our universities, the intentional inability to do business there, so even the infrastructure investments there themselves are proof of the importance given here and what is expected here. Hopefully, our universities, especially the University of Dicle, use these opportunities more efficiently, and are we particularly neglected? I thank you for the opportunity to make these statements to both you and Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0114par0321	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0115par0322	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0114par0323	Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0115par0324	Mr. Galip Ensarioglu, MP of the State, has said something about my statement, and I'd like to make a brief statement, and I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0114par0325	What did he say?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0115par0326	He said that the foundation in Diyarbakır had nothing to do with the land, that it was false information. I'd like to fill you in on that.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0114par0327	Yes, please.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0115par0330	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in my speech earlier, I gave some detailed information about the foundation work in Diyarbakır. The foundation was established about 20 years ago. In my speech, I mentioned a foundation, a medical foundation, and I told you how you got a land. The foundation, which is now founded by the newly established Saladdin Eyubi University, has no organic connection to the other Foundation, but it is the President of the Trust and some members of the new Foundation's Trustary Committee today. I'm giving this to you in detail. I pointed out to individuals or individuals who haven't been able to account for these practices in the past, who haven't been able to account clearly, transparently, and who are also involved in the new trustee. My respects.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0116par0333	Thank you, Mr. Tan. [[Continue]] The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF HIGH SCHOOL PRODUCTIONS TO CHANGE THE LAW Article 1-28/3/1983 and Article 2809 of Higher Education Institutions are added to the following article. EK MADDE 148- A foundation of Salahaddin Eyubi University, which has a public corporate personality, has been established by the Education, Culture and Health Foundation in Diyarbakır, in accordance with the provisions of Higher Education Act 2547 on the foundation's higher education institutions. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, B) From the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, C) From the seminary, From the Faculty of Health Sciences, d) From the university of applied sciences, e) From the Institute of Social Sciences, F) From the Institute of Sciences, G) From the Institute of Health Sciences, đ) From the Institute of Local Languages, It's happening." On the 1st article, Sakarya MP Engin Özkoç on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0117par0360	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I wish you all the best in your mission. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to make a statement at the beginning of my two important issues. First of all, thousands of our citizens who now know the talks on the National Education Commission in Turkey's National Assembly -- they've informed each other of each other -- are watching on the Internet, on TV, and on the telephones, saying: Thousands of our tradesmen are very victimised because of the free clothes that come out of schools that are immediately put into practice. These tradesmen have left school clothes in their hands, and they expect Mr. Secretary to give them a good, good news today, as to the fact that this national fortune is not wasted on them, that this business is being supported by our new ministry -- which has reached bankruptcy. That's the first one. Second: In my speech, our assistant teachers, suffering from 50/d, are now looking forward to today's talks and decisions for tomorrow. Let me put that in perspective at the beginning of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've been meaning to open my speech on the bill we discussed with you with these headlines. In Turkey, universities have become institutions that operate with an understanding of education. Colleges have become companies that hand out diplomas like buying groceries. Universitys have also been transformed into an institution of academic titles, such as buying goods from the market. There are academics in Turkey who are professors in one day. There are rectors who own a $400,000 power tool for colleges' money. He received the title of professor at a university he had never been to and worked at a private hospital in Istanbul, and at the cost of that, there are those who pay the rector 30,000 lira each month. There are doctors who work as a health department bureaucrat, but who have never been to a university where they have been taken as professors, who have never been to a university where they have been taught, who have been seen on academic staff, who have received a professor's salary, who have taken a percentage of the hospital's return capital, who have taken the title of professor at nursing institutes. Ankara Medical Chamber has already announced 31 of the 32 staff assigned to Yıldırım Akıt University Medical School prior to the appointment. The Medical Office took these appointments to court and won the case. Yet, the names mentioned remain in place. The University's Rector, Dean of the Medical School, and the President of the Turkish Public Health Association are among those names. In highlighting these, I was determined to answer the question: What is the response to the government's generous distribution of academic titles? At Middle East Technical University, statements by some university rectors have made the government's purpose clear after the incident of Mr. Prime Minister going to a university where Turkey should be considered to be proud, followed by thousands of police. He became a professor of the University of Cırkıt without teaching for an hour. He explained that the freedom we have does not exist in Oxford. If you don't want the president of another university, don't take his salary. He can say. Because he condemned Middle East Technical University, the president of a university that we know exists has previously been mayor of the AKP. During the mayoral term, a building collapsed in the district where he was president and 92 of our citizens were killed. The city has lost all compensation cases. The government, which occupied opposition party municipalities at the time, unfortunately didn't even give permission to investigate the mayor mentioned at the time. The fact that the coroner's report, which found the municipality guilty at the time, was written by ODTU, has also increased the chancellor's anger. A chancellor who can't even write his own resume in English has made a statement that we don't approve of some sort of treatment for our prime minister. Dear friends, after all this, I have a very urgent matter to address. As you know, assistants who work under Article 50 of the Higher Education Law (D) have been laid off or threatened with dismissal. Several assistants have been laid off at İstanbul Technical University. In this cold weather, our young friends are waiting in front of the KÖK building in Ankara. All young academics want is academic freedom and job security. Now I'm going to start reading their exact words:.50/d researchers are once again ahead of the NGO in four years. We are here to protest the executive board's decision, which left the 50/dd research workers unemployed in 2009, as they finished their doctorates. As a result of our decisive struggle at the time, we won the case against the State, and we made sure that the relevant decision was annulled. The prosecution's rational decision is very clear. There can be no different job guarantees for 50/D researchers with the same description of the same work as the 33/a/a research workers. At the point where we arrived four years later, hundreds of 50/d researchers were laid off without finishing their master's and doctorates. The rest of the thousands of 50/Ds wait for the day when they will lose a job in a great uncertainty. The job security will be completely eliminated, and the law, especially the researchers, must be immediately waived, which will turn academics into contracting employees without social rights. Assistants who have been laid off illegally must be taken back. The maximum time application with no legal and scientific basis must be removed. İstanbul Technical University's assessment of the departments' wills in transition to the 33/a staff must be lifted. Dear Minister, my dear fellow congressmen, we don't see anything as biased. The Republican People's Party is looking at each minister with good intentions, in the belief that the Republic of Turkey can do good things, make good decisions. However, if tens of our young assistants are being laid off in front of the SEC right now, even though the State Department has decided that they are being legally laid off, they are trying to make their voices heard there. I'm speaking as their voice to the Minister here: please, listen to the voices of these young people and you be Minister of those who can't make a sound in Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, some students wear one-type clothes in high school. How? They wear one type of black dress, one rose on their collars. They're trying to make it look like those students are gangbangers and belong to a group. Now that we've reached this stage, not to allow our students to sit in classrooms by distinction... but to be their minister. So Turkey can embrace you, so the opposition party can congratulate you. We'll be with those who passed that law in every law that clears Turkey's path. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0118par0378	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0119par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace Democratic Party on the Law Proposal 329. I salute you all. By the way, I wish the Minister the best of his duties, although he has left, Mr. Secretary, but... Dear friends, of course, we're discussing the opening of a new university. Our friend, Altan Tan, who just spoke on behalf of our group, expressed that we would support this, but we just want to say once again that it's not just a question of opening a university, but that we need to discuss our education problems together. Because it's not about opening new universities, it's about who these universities really serve, what they serve. There are also 65 foundation universities in Turkey today. With the new SEC bill, here it is, opening conditions for private universities are being developed. So, in fact, the universities are now becoming a business institution, and the approach today by both professors and students at the Higher Education Board states that they are opposed to this approach, which has been converted into a business institution, by which they are taking action, by which they are opposed to the new SEC bill. From the beginning, the government, at its own point of view, in its own political approach, makes laws based on its ideological, philosophical approach, builds universities according to it, and will be a victim or has never had a dialogue with those directly concerned. That's the way it is with college, and that's the way it is with the SEC bill. And so it causes more reaction, and there's no area for very serious scientific work on it. I'm afraid academic autonomy, scientific research and development approaches can't go beyond a lie. I'd like to rephrase that, dear MPs. Really, it's important that a university is founded today in Diyarbakır, but it's also a question of how this foundation will serve... we, the Peace and Democracy Party, have expressed the lack of education every time. The ECHR must be removed, without money education, without money health, but these universities, private universities and foundations, unfortunately, make education affordable. So the more money you have, the more you can read or benefit from education. This inequality is also a case of inequality in the field of education. And not just like that. Here's the MP from the CHP Group who just told me. At the same time, academic professors at universities face serious problems. For example, a law has been passed here, you know. This law makes it look like teachers have the right to organize, as if they have the right to work there, to work there, to work there, to work at the university, to be organized by Job Law 4857, as if there's nothing wrong with that. But when the professors start organizing, he wants to be a unionist, this time he gets fired by school administrations. I mean, even this is an indication of how it's being approached. Again, in the last term's bag of legislation, along with Law 6111, the work of professors, especially those who serve as assistants at the university has been terminated, so job security has been eliminated. Many university officials are now in action for this. So we have to discuss all these problems together. It's not just about opening up college. Yes, there are nearly 10,000 people employed today at around 65. If it's being looked at from this front, yes, there's a field of employment, but there's a lot of serious problems for these people to do a really scientific, academic production, where students to participate in a democratic system, to earn their future. Another important thing about colleges is students. This place looks like a customer to the students. So instead of doing scientific, academic education, raising students to the future, universities look here as a customer, how much profit it's going to bring. Which is what foundation universities are called, in fact, non-profit universities. In a little while, maybe you'll answer me like this. But it's not like that. But it's more like a business. There are no opportunities for students to conduct democratic debate, to express themselves culturally, to conduct social debates. Notice that the most Kurdish students in universities face attack. Does anyone ever ask you that? I mean, why? Or the Alevis are facing an attack. Over the past year, dozens of colleges have had fights, rows of fights. The reason for all of this is actually ethnic discrimination, let's say it's the result of racial approaches, because social problems, the smallest problem, is a political outcome, and because of these discussions, students have to leave their schools. Not just in universities, but in areas where they live, such as in Kütahya, but in Çorum, Istanbul. Because of their political views at universities, unfortunately, students are stuck in the middle of major debates, fights, and many of them are leaving their university. Again, there is a law called the Anti-Terror Law. Everyone gets into this law, this bag is inside the law. In universities, investigations are being launched against students who act on social problems, march, for example condemning the Roboski massacre, students who are expelled from school or face disciplinary investigations. These are serious problems. We're opening up a university here before we talk about all this. That's a good thing. We can't talk about it. We'll have to talk about this together. If we're going to talk about something in the field of education, we're going to have to discuss the possibilities of solving all of this together. Yes, let new universities be opened, but let these new universities be democratic and scientific, teach students, young people without money. Let democratic debates be created here. Let the professors here provide a job guarantee, so when will I be out of work? Let him not enter into an argument called. Congressmans, in this law, perhaps a innovation will be established, you know, the Institute of Living Languages, which is part of this university. It's really interesting, too, living languages... what language lives, what language doesn't live, or how do we express it from here? We've even found such an interesting cover for education in the native language, one of the demands for a solution to the Kurdish problem, which is still a very fundamental problem in this country. So let's say, let's say there's a debate about meeting the demand for education in the main language, to make the education system in Turkey, to make it completely two-lingual, or other languages in Turkey, for example, Arabs, Circiks, other peoples, to open schools that teach in the native language, to change the curriculum accordingly, to make it a social peace project, to start this in the national education, but let's say that the institution of languages living languages will be taught in what language, which language will be taught in this institute, which language will be taught in this living language. Is it going to be Kurdish, is it going to be Arabic, is it going to be Turkish, or is it based on what we call these languages living? We think it's a problem itself, and it's still, in fact, a situation in this country that shows where we are on solving the Kurdish problem. So on the one hand, let's take this problem from the basis of war, let's discuss it in a democratic environment. But on the other hand, there's no way to accept the existence of Kurdish people, accept that Kurdish rights and freedom demands may exist, and let's just say that there's no way to make all the arrangements that we can make. So we want to say once again that this is something that has problems of its own. So instead of the institute of living languages, let's say it's the Kurdish institute, or Kurdish education, but in Arabic, if it's Arabic. Let's say it's like this if it's given in Armenian, but it's a problem if you leave something so vague and say it's the language that lives here. Aside from meeting the demand for education in the native language of 20 million people still living within Turkey's borders in the 21st century, there is a serious problem. All of this needs to be evaluated. Dear MPs, as a result, we would like to state that, yes, there are serious problems in education in Turkey. You have to take this whole thing. It's not just for students, it's not just for professors, it's for a whole, it's for the society of Turkey. This system itself is not responding to needs, it must be rearranged. We have to reassess from a democratic, ecological, sexist liberal perspective, free from sexist elements, deal with it in an egalitarian, democratic approach. Otherwise, we'll just be turning into a business, opening up new businesses, which the AKP is very expert at, we know; it's a profit-loss account in everything, even in universities. In the future, the SEC bill will be passed, something that will legitimize it. From here, once again, I think it's important to review this SEC bill, to be evaluated with the education workers, and to really evolve a democratic process before this bill comes, to a point where the students will meet the needs of both the professors and the community, and I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0120par0400	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0121par0403	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is giving life together in a very good work today. A foundation university is founded in Diyarbakır, called Salahaddin Eyyubi (Seladdin Eyubi). As the National Movement Party Group, I have made a commitment to express our satisfaction with the establishment of this university and to wish our country, our nation, well-being. Dear friends, it's important to build a university. There have been many statements expressed here as a result of the establishment of this university. Of course, it is our wish that our universities serve the unity of our country, serve its development, serve the future of our country. There may be many mistakes, flaws, but let's not be too hard on ourselves, our country today has a lot of work to do. The establishment of such a university under the name Salahaddin Eyubi puts our satisfaction in Diyarbakir. I wish you good luck, and I thank you to all who have done so. But on this occasion, I would like to remind you of something. Dear friends, there are very important values that move nations from today to the future. It's our responsibility to keep those values alive, our obligation to ourselves. Saladin Ayyubi, don't forget that name. It's a very important name in the history of our nation. You've heard of the Battle of Hihtin. The battle of Hihttin, 1187; the battle of Hihttin, which brought Jerusalem from the Crusaders and Latins to Islam. The commander of this war is Saladin Ayyubi. The Battle of Hittin, which is very valuable to us, really, for our religion, for all religions, is entrusted to the hands of the city of Jerusalem, Islam, Muslims. I don't mean to say that he was rescued, not rescued, but the people who lived in Jerusalem and Jerusalem until 1917 lived in peace in the righteous, compassionate hands of the Turkish government, the Ottomans, but the Battle of Hiltttin, the Europeans, the Christians, the generations of the Crusaders today have never forgotten. The Great Middle East Project, which is being implemented in our region today, if you look under social psychology, will suffer from the Hajttin War syndrome. It is never acceptable to Christians that Jerusalem, which is very important to Christianity, is in the hands of Muslims. After a 40 - day siege of Jerusalem, British General Edmund Allenby came to Jerusalem in December 11 of 1917 and received Jerusalem from the Turks, his statement sheds light on our present day. A brief reminder of the importance of our work is useful. When British General Edmund Allenby, as commander of the Egyptian expedition, handed over Jerusalem after a forty-day siege -- I mean the governor, the mayor, the Turkish governor, left the city and left them -- he said today that it was important for us, that historians wrote: "Get up, Salahadin, get up! See who has Jerusalem now. There has been a process today that has many painful stories. What is more painful, dear friends, is the general general general of the Ottomans of that day, German General von Sanders. The Ottoman State lost its precious city to the British it fought, but the Chief of Staff of the Ottomans, Port von Sanders, sends a telegram to General Edmund Allenby: I congratulate you, you did a very important Christian job, you saved Jerusalem from Muslims and Turks, he says. General Allenby's answer is an answer to our point of view in history, saying: "This war will not end here, this war will continue until the Turks return to the darkness of Central Asia. " Dear friends, this promise is not the spoiled words of a victorious general. After Lauzan, Lord Curzon spoke to Ismet Pasha. When the time comes, we will bring the conditions of this Sevr, which you have torn up, to you one by one. Thus, the origin of all the policies that our Turkish nation deals with today is Hhttin's syndrome and the words of General Edmund Allenby in 1917. So today -- even though it's too late -- the government of the Republic of Turkey, the state, the Parliament, the Saladin Eyubi -- has not forgotten the name, but in a way, about a hundred years later, we respond to this British General's arrogance that defies the Turkish nation. Hopefully, the same university will be established in Jerusalem.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0122par0411	I hope so.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0121par0412	Hopefully, we'll give you the answer there. Today, the persecution of the people of Jerusalem, the Christians, the Jews, the Muslims, the persecution, the persecution, the persecution, the persecution of Jerusalem. Therefore, in the sense of keeping our values, in a name like this, the establishment of a university called Saladaddin Eyubi. As the National Movement Party Group, he finds it very special, meaningful, wishing well, thanking those who have done the work.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0123par0416	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. On behalf of him, Diyarbakır MP Oya Eronat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0124par0420	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 1st Amendment to the Law on Higher Education Institutions Act 329. I salute your high council. Congressmans, when a country has problems with quality of life, income distribution, poverty, crime and terrorism, it also has problems with education. Higher education and education in the world are rapidly spreading with students and faculty to all levels of the public every day. Turkey has also tried and succeeded in participating in this world's development at great speed over the past ten years. Now, in 21st-century Turkey, the establishment of universities that are facing research and development, RD projects, is of great importance because in the coming years, countries will be competing in science, science and technology. Catching the technology and innovation of the rapidly changing world will be possible in developing and growing Turkey, with its added value in domestic and efficient universities. In 2003, some 2 million students are studying at about 2 million universities, including 53 of them state universities, 24 of them foundation universities, while in the period of the EC PARTI administrations, these numbers have risen to 103, as a state university, to 65, as a foundation university, to around 4.4 million students in the total of 168 universities. Again, in our Diyarbakır, which has hosted 27 civilizations in my constituency, with its 10,000-year-old history and 5,000-year-old magnificent walls, is the third-largest town of the Middle East. In 1974, the University of Dicle, founded with two schools, including medical and science schools, and began studying with around a thousand students, teaches today with 13 universities, 4 institutes, 9 universities, 22 vocational institutes and 22 students. However, because of the lack of the current Dicle University, which is based on 1.5 million people in all respects, Saladin Eyubi University, which is thought to be established, will provide more education for our young people. Our goal is to meet the demand for higher education and to raise young people who can compete with the world through universities where knowledge and technology are produced and shared. Saladin Ayyubi ruled in Cairo from 1174-1993 and studied religious lessons, art and knowledge. Al-Wahrani, who wrote the biography of Saladdin Eyubi, states that he is an expert on Euclid geometry, astronomy, mathematics and arithmetic. Honorable MPs are the first private investment in higher education for Diyarbakır's University of Saladdin Eyyubi, which will be named after such an important figure, an effective and meaningful output of the region's people, an example and a pioneer action. The University of Saladdin Eyubi aims not only to be an attraction for young people in the region, but also to young people in Turkey and nearby geography. By the way, a question was asked. Until this day, why was the name of a university not given to a university? During the AK PARTY administrations, it became a tradition for our precious elders to be given their precious names to universities. We are also proud that the name of Salahaddin Eyyubi (Seladdin Eyubi) has been named today, as well as that of the AK PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On this occasion, I wish you all the best of luck to our city, to our country, to open the foundation university.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0125par0429	Thank you, Mr. Eronat. Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White on his behalf. Here you go, Mr. White.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0126par0433	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm very excited and very happy as a Diyarbekirli, while the esteemed MPs are present today as the AK PARTY Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0127par0435	It's both Diyarbekri and Amedli.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0126par0436	Today, we began talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to establish the second university of Diyarbakır. Good luck for Diyarbakir, for our young people, for our children, for our country, for our country. Dicle University, which has completed its education in 1966 and has completed its establishment in 1974, offers modern and modern education opportunities for 13 universities, 5 institutes of higher education, 8 universities of applied sciences, 4 institutes and 18 research centres. After 45 years of training, Culture and Health Foundation decided to establish a foundation university called the University of Salahaddin Eyubi in Diyarbakır, and submitted their application file to the chairman of the Board of Higher Education in 2011. I'd like to open a parentheses here, especially the Prudent Foundation, which is willing to do this good job. A foundation founded three years ago, not 20 years ago. They, of course, give our deputy the answers as a foundation, but I don't want the people in the foundation to get hurt, and I don't want them to get hurt, either. And I want to make that very clear in this sense -- I want to thank everyone who's worked so hard to begin negotiations in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today as a Diyarbekir. In Turkey, the 2011-2012 education year, except for the open education and other higher education institutions of universities, has taught at the universities of nine per cent of the 2 million 359,655,484. As a result of this law, the foundation university will contribute to Turkey's demand for the young population. In 2002, when there were 23 foundation universities, there were 65 foundation universities and 8 foundation universities. Saladdin Eyubi University is the first private investment in higher education in the history of the republic for Diyarbakır and its nearby community. Like Shark's beloved sultan, the great Islamic commander, the conqueror of Jerusalem, Saladdin Ayyubi, he will be a welcoming, unifying and exemplary university for our children and for our young ones. Here I am, with all my heart, agreeing to the request of Mr. Shandır....to build a Saladdin Ayyubi University in Jerusalem. Let's hope we all do this together.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0128par0445	I hope so.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0126par0446	The heart of Mesopotamia is Diyarbakir, an ancient city home to thousands of years of civilizations, which has raised many scientists and scholars. Mesudiye Medresesi was founded in Diyarbakir, the oldest and first university in Anatolia, with the identity of a teaching city from east to west. The construction of the Mesudiye Medesesi, which is north of Diyarbakır's Great Mosque and adjacent to the mosque, was completed in 1198, and was completed in 1223. In this madrasa, they taught courses such as astronomy, medicine, physics, mathematics, biology, chemistry, theology, literature, and philosophy. Restoration is currently under way by the General Directorate of the Foundations. Today, Ebûl Iz Al-Cizirî, considered taking the first steps of cybernetics and computers and making the first robot work, lived in Cizre, then in Diyarbekir, and lived in Diyarbekir. On behalf of our scientist Al-Cizirî, who is in a very important place in the history of the world, I hope that one day we will all start a university together in Diyarbakir. As I salute all of you, I thank you with his opposition to his power, saying that we are Turkey together, I pray that the University of Selahattin Eyyubi will be good for our country, for our country, for our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0129par0452	Thank you, Mr. White. Moving on to QA. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0130par0455	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, may your new assignment be blessed and blessed. Recently, our country's training grounds have been indecisive in the classrooms. Whether it's going to close or not, there's been a lot of fighting lately. Since you're the new minister, is there any way you can be clear about these classrooms? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0131par0459	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Agha? No. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0132par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I wish you the best of luck in your new mission, and I hope the past mistakes don't happen again. Mr. Secretary, there was an explosion that occurred yesterday in a factory operating in the Gaziantep organised industrial region and was said to depend on gas compression. Seven workers were killed in this explosion. Many workers have been injured, including 2 of them seriously injured. Two of those who lost their lives are Syrians, they have no work permits. One of them is a student at the university. Currently, one third of the population of the church is Syrian. In Gaziantep, 30 or 40,000 people outside the camps came from Syria, and they settled in Gaziantep, one way or another. There's no telling what they're doing, how they're staying, who they're contacting, why they're coming. Mr. Prime Minister, during his visit to Gaziantep...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0133par0467	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0134par0469	Mr. Secretary, the drum is on Mr. Kılıç's neck on loans and dorms, and the mallet is on his neck. You give a college permit, but if you don't at least impose on the foundation universities that have been established for years to build a dorm for their students, the drum of Suat Kılıç will explode. From this angle...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0133par0470	Stay away from the microphone for a second.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0134par0471	...to start with the old foundation colleges, we can't get out of this if you don't have to build a dorm for your students at a certain rate each year. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0133par0473	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0135par0475	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, a teacher was attacked at Mush Anadolu Teacher's High School the other day. Petty Officer Sergeant who carried out the attack, because he gave his son a low score. What did you do about it, what do you intend to do about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0136par0478	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0137par0480	Mr. Secretary, I wish you all the best on your new mission. Public employees, whose title is the head of the agency, and those whose pensions have been paid for their duties, have been made legal, but are not given the same right to those in our universities who are the head of the agency. Do you intend to make an attempt to eliminate this discrimination application with the heads of offices serving at our universities and to pay their pensions as well? We've got a call from our friends who've been head of the department on this one. Do you think we should consider that call? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0138par0483	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0139par0485	Sir, we're working to get to a certain point, sir, because our Congressman's voice is very echoing back there, but we can make a clear statement about what's being done about the classrooms, about what's being done about the classrooms, about what's being done, about what's being done, about what's being done, about the integrity of the Turkish education system, and we're trying to make an arrangement on that subject, but at this point, we also think that it's more comfortable that we're going to be able to do this with a different understanding of the different issues that can arise in different departments, after we've reviewed them in order today, but we think that in the long term that they're not going to be subject, that a large part of them can be transformed into private schools and special schools, but that we've been able to make changes in order to make them into special schools, but we've been more comfortable studies, but we've been able to share these studies. Mr. Serindağ... yes, I pray for God's mercy to our brothers who died in Gaziantep, and to heal the wounded quickly. I think the information on this matter will be forwarded to you by Mr. Home Secretary, but he's a bit of a novice, just like me, but I'm going to give it to the Home Secretary in writing to answer. Mr. Aslanoglu's incentive for the construction of the foundation universities and the question of Mr. Ağbaba (Mr. Ağbaba) can be discussed within the new and collective arrangement of the YKK. I think it's a particularly important suggestion about this dorm, and I'm going to share it with the study group during those studies.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0140par0488	Mr. Minister, if you'll allow it, you'll have to say "Friend, build 10 per cent of the dorms." These are all our children on the street.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0139par0489	Yes, various formulas...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0140par0490	Starting with the old foundation colleges, including the new one, 10%...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0139par0491	The foundation can be tried in various ways to encourage national production of universities.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0140par0492	Let him take it, let him rent it out to the Mortgage Homes.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0139par0493	Yeah. Mr. Sakık, about the incident in Mush, I felt like I was starting to warm up when you said that because I called our head of Müsh National Education as soon as it happened. I think it was Mr. Suphi...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0141par0495	Suphan Fire.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0139par0496	Yes, Mr. Sobhan, the teacher who was subjected to this plague is my brother. To provide the necessary legal support for him... except that there's nothing very serious about him, but...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0141par0497	There's something for three days, but there's an attack, there's a beating.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0139par0498	Of course, there's been an ugly attack, and the identity of the attackers has been disturbing to us. So I asked our national education director to take care of our teacher, to provide him with all kinds of legal support and medical support -- not just for our teacher, but for his son, because something happened together. We're on it.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0141par0500	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0139par0501	Yes, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0142par0502	Mr. President, we have more time to question and answer...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0143par0503	Mr. Sakek, you've entered the system. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0144par0505	Thank you. I have my answer. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0143par0506	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0145par0507	Sir, we have a deadline, so if you'd like me to get into the system, my question is incomplete.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0143par0508	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0145par0509	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thank you, you've been kind, you said you weren't in charge, but the Minister of Family and Social Policy doesn't say the same thing. It says that people from Syria will be given jobs, that employment problems will be resolved. However, schools and employment may interest you more. I'm interrupted. Currently, one third of the church's population is Syrian. There are 30 to 40,000 Syrians in Gaziantep. Even the emergency room of the state hospital is full of Syrians, where it is made a dormitory. The government also encourages this issue. As a member of the government, Mr. Minister, there must be a solution to this problem, a solution to Gaziantep and its environment, border provinces, to be saved from it. More and more issues of security will come to light. I wanted to bring this to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0146par0513	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0147par0515	I don't know what dimension the Home Office and the Ministry of the Family are working on your concerns right now, but I'm guessing it's big enough to satisfy your concerns. As I said, besides our Home Secretary, I'm guessing that our minister in charge of the family will give you a written answer that will satisfy you more. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0146par0517	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 329th Amendment to the 329th Amendment to the Law of the National Institute of Higher Education Institutions. In accordance with Article 149, which is added to the Law on Higher Education Institutions, we demand and demand the addition of the bedding below and the detection of the dams accordingly. Tolga Çangar Ali Haydar Öner Malik Ecder Özdemir Gürkut Acar Metin Lütfi Baydar From the School of Fine Arts, Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0148par0529	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0146par0530	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Chandar, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0149par0533	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the proposal that I have made to discuss a faculty of fine arts within the university, which will be established by adding a clause to the amendment to the Constitution of the Institutions of Higher Education Act. I salute you all. What happens in people's heads today, I don't know what comes into people's minds when they say "Diyarbakir" but when I say "Diyarbakir," I think of a modern city. In my years when I went to Diyarbakir, I saw one of Turkey's most distinguished cities, one of which had a full - time view of a full - time city with people's responses. We're talking about a law on opening an additional university in a city like this. So, as someone with an art background, an artist's background, I made a motion like this because I thought a high school of arts would suit me. Diyarbakir raised very valuable artists. For example, my very close friend, the late Veysel Precogniser, his older brother, Vasif Precogniser, how to get rid of Asiye Let me tell my master, Cait Sıtký Tarancı, one of the most important names of Diyarbakir, known to all of us, is our poet. Esma January, also very dear friend, deceased. Bedri Ayseli... What I can think of are the names that I've just noted and the names of Celal Bellases, whose name is placed by the Supreme Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, these are the cultural faces of Diyarbakir. Artists are the ones who provide the relationship between cultures. Artists also promote peace between cultures. Science and art... opening a faculty of fine arts at a university like this will be crucial for the cultural development of the region and its contribution to peace. In the end, because I think we're going to meet this usual painting, it's interesting that with this fine arts faculty that's going to be established at this university, it will cause the culture of this region, which is watered by the blood of young Anatolian children, to flourish, to contribute to the creation of contemporary Turkish culture and art, to the creation of modern Anatolia culture and art, to the creation of such a university. By the way, by the way, we wish Mr. Nabi Avcı, the President of our Commission, the success of his new post during the Commission. I hope it's been long enough for you to realize what a heavy task you're taking. I get a lot of calls from my district, a lot of demands, but we can't get into the ministries. Republican People's Party MPs, we can't get to the ministers, we can't get to the ministries, the undersecretaries won't come to our phone. I hope the Ministry of National Education doesn't put us through this in your time. Friends in our region said: "There have been two roads from Diyarbakir to towns. " I congratulate you very much, and that's the way it should be. The balance between the regions, of course, is very important, but let them come and see the ways of Mughla. I mean, you're lucky, so I don't know if the ruling MPs are working better than we are, but come, look at the roads of Mugla, which we call the traditional paradise. The roads between Milas-Izmir are three years old and you haven't paid for them yet. It's been six months, and I'm a civil engineer who's broken down in a rain -- see the roads that have collapsed. If you've made your way to Diyarbakir, and you're going down that road like a lion, I'd say you're very lucky, appreciate it. The colleges are watching us right now. The students of the open school just did... Why are you removing the integration exams? He asks -- indeed -- students of open school. Why is this not being observed, even though there is a decision to the contrary? Why aren't our earned rights returned? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will have a solution. Well, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0150par0548	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Commission has a request to amend the matter before the vote. Here you go. Mr. President, Article 2 of Law No. 2809 has been added to Article 2848. We believe it would be appropriate for the law not to be included in the multi-matter arrangement and to be corrected in terms of the law-making technique, sir, to vote in the form of 149. Yes, I submit to your votes on this amendment request: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2 ▪ This goes into effect in the history of the publication of the law. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2, Edirne MP Recep Gürkan... Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0151par0559	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Law on the Amendment to the Law on Higher Education Institutions, 329 rows. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, before I speak, I'd like to point out that the first, for our late January nation, the week period of our very dear people, our citizens, whose light, his pen, his science, his heart, is sadly slaughtered, is on different dates. First, last week, we remembered the precious Ugur Mumcu, who was murdered outside his house on January 24, 1993. Once again, we remember him with all due respect and mercy and gratitude. Again, on January 31, 1990, the 23rd anniversary of the death of Muammar Aksoy, one of our country's most valued lawyers, in front of his home. We also remember Muammar Aksoy with mercy, gratitude, and respect. Since there is no General Assembly tomorrow, I would like to make it clear that on February 1, 1979, the anniversary of the death of the precious Abdi Silker, who was brutally shot and killed in his vehicle. And We remember him with mercy and kindness. Our esteemed Commissioner, Mr. Nabi Avcı, has been appointed Minister of National Education under the recent Council of Ministers, and we wish him the best. Turkey's most difficult, largest and most troubled ministry is the Ministry of National Education. That's the way it was in the past, but Nabi Hodja is a bit of a lucky person. Why a lucky person? Before my speech, I received a letter from a teacher, and I'm going to read a passage from him, very short. Friends, the teacher says that teachers were lazy, they weren't working, they were late for class, they were absent, they were on vacation for three months, they were lying down? Remember when the teachers waiting for the appointment looked like pigeons waiting to be fed, and they couldn't be transferred from the apology group, from the spouse's condition, from the health condition? I knew everything. I was just saying that I didn't know anything. If I'd known, I wouldn't have defended the 60 - month - old children going to school. You were a business manager, and our job was education. We wanted to tell you, you wouldn't listen. We wonder, is there a teacher in Turkey who loves you? These words are part of a letter written to former Minister Omar Dinçer by educators. Mr. Secretary, we hope that while you're in charge, the educators will not write a letter like this. Dear MPs, the bill we are discussing is set up by a foundation university called Saladdin Ayyubi in Diyarbakır province. Of course, as an educator, we are in no position to oppose the opening of an educational institution. We say, "Good luck, good luck." However, it also needs to be discussed with a slightly wider perspective. In our country, it is possible to view the 1973-75 period, 1982-92 period, and the last 2006-08 period as a turning point in this regard. When we look at the government's programme, it is clear that the development of objective criteria for the establishment of new universities, including the possibilities, and the integration of universities in specific areas, including potentials in their regions. So, what's the situation? The situation, unfortunately, is the opposite. The developments confirm that the government programme has failed to carry out that goal. An important indicator of this is the developments in the creation of 15 new universities in 2006. 15 new universities adopted are in the process of drafting, while the SEC is asked for advice. In his view, the SEC recommends that the establishment of 15 universities, including the Army, Tekirdağ, Uçek and Düzce universities, should be appropriate, while others should be released later, but, of course, we have politicians, ministers, MPs who know more about the universities than the CEC. With no consideration for the SEC opinion, the entire list will be moved to parliament and signalled the establishment of 10 other universities. Noting the demand for new universities from lawmakers in the General Assembly talks, National Education Minister Huseyin Çelik states that 25 universities are scheduled in total, but that they can open the first 15 chapters for the time being due to budget opportunities, which will open 17 universities. Then another 10 colleges open. At this point, the total number of public universities has risen to 103, and the number of foundations has increased to 65. Now, we have a draft prepared by the YOK. I'm not saying that because he hasn't left the Ministry of National Education yet. In this country for years since the coup of September 12, 1980, the existing Higher Education Board Act 2547, which was a product of that coup, was criticised by everyone, and criticised by all political parties, but no matter what, all the political powers that have taken over that ruling authority, all the powers that have taken over the universities, all of the powers that have taken over the academics, they have not hesitated to use it as a pressure on them as a sword. Colleges are being taken back more and more. In this new bill, called the Turkey Higher Education Board, we see that we are almost at a point where we are going to say, oh, please, let's not touch 2547. This is a disaster for education, for universities, for academic autonomy. Mr. Secretary, I hope you can help me with this. You make scientists the Ministry of National Education, which, unfortunately, in the past ministry, almost became the backyard of a single educational union, where all unions, training unions, all educational circles, all scientific environments, are being taken away, and those scientific truths will be compiled into new drafts. We really expect that from you, and we sincerely expect that from you. When we look at the new bill -- my friends just told me -- there's a research worker's nightmare. This already exists. Imagine, you have two children. You're telling someone: "Get a doctorate, both of you. One of you is finishing his doctorate, he can't get a staff for various reasons, but because he's been appointed from 33/a/a to the general staff, his contract is renewed every three years, approved, extended, and he gets his salary, but he can't get the salary of that position because he can't be assigned. On the other hand, that 50/d, which we call the institutional staff, is assigned to the 50/d, according to the famous 50/d, because he's a doctorate in the same science field, but he can't pull strings from the 33/a staff, because he can't afford it. So, what's going on? When we get to the doctor, they say, "Ya, we don't have a staff. Why don't you take a ride? If you sell bagels or waiters or tea or whatever you do, then we'll let you know when the staff opens. And when there are 103 of our country's universities in the state, 65 of the foundation, there are tens of hundreds of staff deficits, we have to direct the bright, shiny sons of our country to other professions outside. Mr. Secretary, in your initial statement, you said that this freesuit application would be reconsidered. We welcome that. I hope you can fix this. You avoid the inequality of poor family children, poor family children, in schools as well. On the other hand, I want to make it clear to you that Mr. Dinçer has appointed a partner status based on a major change. It's called a partner situation, but it's actually a major change, officially. Teachers were told: "Sister, you will choose your wife or you will choose your job. For God's sake, in what democratic country of the world, in what modern country can people be forced to choose like this? Is that a thing? Let's think about this being done to our own children, to our own children, whether or not you'll rebel, whether or not you'll be angry, whether you'll curse or not you'll scream or not. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, you're saying we're going to correct the appointment of partners in February. Please stop these people from being victimized. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0152par0575	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mud MP Iron Steel. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0153par0579	Mr. President, my highly respected fellow lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of myself and my party. I have made a promise on the higher education law in 329 rows. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, universities remain the most important institutions of our time. Throughout its history, universities have been filled with important tasks and responsibilities at the point of society's transformation, from medicine to law, from science to art, from culture to philosophy to all kinds of democratic areas and places for which all kinds of social needs have been met. Today, however, when we are in the process of deciding whether to name the name Selahaddin Eyubija as a second university in Diyarbakır, our universities are still in a position that needs to be governed by the constitution and laws of 1983's anti-democratic, fascist dictatorship, under the guardianship of an authoritarian mind called YÖKYUBI, let alone be free. If the university is to have democratic areas where scientific research and studies can be done, first of all, it must be autonomous, administratively and financially, autonomous and democratic at the point. It is clear that the autonomous, non-democratic universities will not do scientific education, scientific study and research, but will act under the siege of official ideology with a duty and responsibility that is being given to them, and that's what's being done. In this way, in recent years, the free brains, which have been revealed by the memorisation of professional performance and formation, which are based on memorisation and the siege of formal ideology, have been envisioned rather than raising free people, the jacobenci is also entitled to a higher education that serves universities to shape society. Furthermore, more than college, a society of social and political traumas has left us each day because it is incapable of being qualified, accessible, objective in all stages, and can not respond to the needs of a society based on money and fully available to the needs of the state. Today, a total of 170 universities across Turkey, of course, opposed the fact that the need would not be sufficient. It seems that the opening of dozens of universities will not be enough to satisfy that need. Therefore, we, the Peace and Democracy Party, of course, find the opening of new universities meaningful and valuable. We also care that a university with the name Saladdin Eyyubi is worthy of Diyarbakır, and we will make the necessary contribution. No one, no one, can present to society the understanding of the Peace and Democracy Party and its local governments and its mayors themselves, especially in the Ottoman Baydemir king, as we are opposed to the movement of the local governments, as we are against the movement of our understanding of the local governments. On the contrary, we, not the university, the elementary school, the middle education, the university and grad school in all the education processes that we're opposed to -- the official ideology, the monotheistic education system, the assimilationist policies. So, first of all, we are in favor of education in the native language of every people and community, as long as Turkish is the official language, and we are in favor of continuing native language education from kindergarten to university without interruptions and interruptions. What we stand against is that the universities are being made the focus of power. What we stand against is that universities are being transformed into places that serve single and official ideology. If that doesn't happen, we know that at the democratic, free and autonomous university, free minds will live and move free society. In that sense, we care more than anyone about opening up a number of universities, hundreds, thousands of schools that could be expressed, that could be answered for 170 college places. However, it is our basic desire that there is no victimhood here, and that there is no deprivation. Again, 30 years ago, the victims of science workers and the poor, workers who work at the university, are also considered. The union struggles, especially the rights of workers and workers, are far from the university's scientific identity, where the rights of the workers and workers are not unionised and organised, have also been restored to a process and a quality that has been removed from democratic identity, as well as from the rights of the strike. It's a self-evident manifestation of what we've wanted to see in college as a single, centrifugal state structure, which is contrary to today's advanced universal law, which we haven't been able to achieve in 90 years. As the Peace and Democracy Party, of course, we find universities to be valuable to the extent that art, culture, scientific education and research, philosophy, law and medicine can be converted into areas and places where human rights and freedoms can be lived. These places, which are more qualified than numbers and quantity, are also not enough to save and save themselves from the custody and custody of the WHO. At the same time, we believe that everyone from his employee to his professor, from his academic to his science worker, who is at the point of being entitled to rights and say, must have a say and authority in the management and governance of the university. And in that way, we care more about his autonomy, his autonomous and free scientific education than anything else. If that's not done, we'll open universities, building castles that mean government headquarters, depending on the locations of every college in the 81 counties we've opened. With our professors, rectors, and deans, whom you have appointed in those castles, and the CEC has approved, we have our own happiness in our isolated, isolated, and other headquarters. But if there is no human being in this happiness, if society does not have a role in finding solutions to social, political, cultural, economic, democratic problems, if it does not have the responsibility of finding solutions to produce political, social policies, it is no longer a university, but it has been converted into areas where a vocational education is limited to middle education. Besides, we have to get rid of a uniform educational system of society's industrial society quickly. It should also be the duty of national education, the introduction of a number of gradual trainings, where inter-business people are also being professionalised, and people from the interpersonal profession are also being trained. Thus, his being a professor as soon as the child was born, and the mission that was given to him, has left us facing social and political problems with inconsistencies. We defend a complete education, qualified, accessible, free education in the mother tongue, and say that we will give the necessary support in this matter, provided the steps are taken according to its purpose, and I salute you once again with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0154par0589	Thank you, Mr. Steel. In the name of the person, Artvin MP, [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0155par0593	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 2 of the Law Bill 329, which envisions a change in the Law of Higher Education Institutions Act. I salute your high council. The relevant draft law envisions the establishment of Salahaddin Eyubi University in Diyarbakır by the Centre for Precaution Education, Culture and Health. I'm one of the best lawmakers in a county who knows what college means. Because, during the AK PARTY rule, the province of Artvin, where I was a member of parliament, is now in college. The university is extremely important to a province; it contributes to its economic, commercial, industrial and cultural life, as we all know. Of course, college investments can't be expected to harmonise and finalize structural completion soon. I don't think it's right to criticize college institutions and colleges because there are quota gaps today. Today's college investments are not just the beginning of today's investments, but our country's investments in ten years, 20 years, 50 years, maybe a hundred years. In that sense, maybe ten years after investments, the university will become one of the most important institutions in that province. Today it may not be felt, but I believe that in ten years, after 20 years, the university will be one of the most important institutions in that province. University investments are extremely important for our country, which has a young and dynamic population. We are obliged to raise our most important capital, education equipment, to meet the needs of the country and the world today. I would like to introduce to you a few data from ten years before 2002 to 2002 in the period of AK PARTI rule: between 1992 and 2002, 51 universities could only be 53 universities. Two new universities were opened; one was Galatasaray University, one was Osmangazi University in Eskişehir. Only two universities were established. And as 32 percent of our students who graduated in 1992 settled in college, 53 percent of the students who graduated in 2012 today settled in college. If you can't predict this, if you can't plan your investments that are appropriate... and if all institutions, like before 2002, were to continue with their current static structures, maybe 20 percent of them wouldn't even be able to get into college today. In that sense, it's important to make these investments for the sake of raising future generations by predicting ahead. Another important point is that college investments have increased 100 per cent from 53 universities to 103 universities, the number of colleges has increased by three times, from 23 to 67. In that sense, here, we should really thank the private sector of Turkey and its civil organizations and congratulate them because they are investing in education for the future of our country. Of course, if you're a strong country, if your private sector is strong, you can make those investments. Being a great country, we see extraordinary investments in all public institutions, health, youth-sports, foundations, universities, all the time. In that sense, we expect that these universities in every province will, of course, improve their levels and make an effort with better-equipped academics at the point of growing a better generation. On the other hand, we find it very important to increase freedoms. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Barracks. Osmaniye MP Suat Önal... Here you go, Mr. Önal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0156par0604	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 2nd Amendment to the Law on Higher Education Institutions Act 329. On this occasion, I salute you. Dear lawmakers, it is certain that the establishment of universities, which have concentrated their resources in different areas, will also add wealth to our higher education as our country's young population is building new universities in order to respond to the demand for higher education of this young population. With the current information produced by teaching and research activities, the universities, which contribute to social development and development of the country, which provide qualified human power in areas in which they are needed, light up cities with the light of science, and play an important role in the sociocultural and economic development of the region. About 10 per cent of students who are trained in pre-license, licensing and grad school, except for the open teaching departments of universities today, receive education and education at foundation universities. Foundation universities, founded by law without use of government resources and without purpose of profit, are an integral part of our higher education and an important part of its public corporate personality. This bill is also established by Diyarbakır University of Emergency Education, Culture and Health. The University of Salahaddin Eyubi is a university with a public legal personality. It opens four universities, four institutes, and one university of applied sciences. It is clear that Saladdin Eyubi University, which will be established, will contribute to Turkey's young population's demand for higher education. Dear MPs, just last week, and again, in Ankara, we had taken a new institution of thematic state university called the University of Social Sciences from the General Assembly, and in this university, very important research units, such as the Institute for Social Sciences, the Institute for East and African Studies, the Institute for Turkish World Research, the Institute for Western World Studies and the Institute for Islamic Studies were established. In this way, the number of public universities has increased from 103 to 104, and the number of universities has increased from 65 to 66. Dear lawmakers have expressed that some of our opposition parliamentary friends regarding the opening of new universities have expressed that this quantitative increase in universities will bring to the attention of a question of quality, and will be a reduction in quality. Of course, we respect and thank the constructive criticism of our opposition congressman friends. However, it should not be forgotten that private universities have to be in all kinds of competition in terms of quality because they stand by their own resources, and that many of our foundations today have accepted themselves in terms of quality and have established respect among higher education institutions. So I'd like to point out that it's inappropriate to carry such anxiety. Again, some speakers drew a very pessimistic picture, especially in talks on the general part of the bill on behalf of the opposition. Dear friends, colleges have a budget of 2.5 billion in 2002, and today our budget of 2013 is $15.2 billion. A lot of professors are being raised by NGO programmes. Today, we are talking about Turkey, which has reset its debt to the IMF, whose annual export has exceeded $152 billion, and the central bank's foreign currency reserve has reached 122 billion dollars, and we are proud to be an honorable citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Everyone should know that Turkey is growing, growing, democratic, and becoming beautiful with the AK PARTY power every day. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to address those who can't see all these beauties on the screen of prejudice in the words of the Lord Celaladdin Rümî. If the moon doesn't rise, if the sun doesn't shine on your face, don't look at your window, nor at the sun, nor at the moon, nor at the curtain in your eyes. With these feelings, I salute all of you, wishing that the arrangement would be a blessing for our country.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0157par0616	Thank you, Mr. Önal. Moving on to QA. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0158par0619	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as a member of the government, not as the Minister of National Education, I ask my question. Gaziantep, Kahramanmarash, and Adana, Patriot missiles were placed. Last time he came to the port of Alexander, he's being transported. These Patriots were told to protect the people there against a possible Syrian attack. Now, given the effective range of the Patriot missiles, then it's clear that he can't protect the citizens in Urbana, Hatay, Mardin. So, did you give up the citizens there? Hatay was one of the most affected cities. Why was it deployed inland, along the border...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0159par0624	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0160par0626	Mr. Secretary, you've received a mixed-up ministry surrender. God help you. I hope you will take into account the criticism the opposition has expressed. We're entering the second semester of education and education. First period, think of a classroom, a classroom with three teacher changes in two months. This class is in Dursunbey district of Balıkesir. It says that in many parts of Asia Minor, the practices that look the same... in this coming period, I hope, I hope, with the zeal of your individual, who understands education, who understands education, who know education, who continue to walk through this community, you will see these facts and solve them, I thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0159par0628	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0161par0630	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, Mehmet Akif Ersoy University was founded in Burdur. Our university is getting bigger every day. In the beginning, we had 201 staff and now 201 staff. There are demands for cleaning and security workers' rights. It's really becoming a brand university with veterinary school, animal hospital, and higher schools, but it's being asked to meet the demand for lack of staff. I'd like to thank you for your contribution.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0159par0632	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0162par0634	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let me start at the end. Now, I've warned our friend, the SEC official, the Deputy Director, that you've requested this. I gave Mehmet Akif Ersoy in Burdur. I gave him the information to do the necessary work for the reinforcement of the University of Burdur. The problem that Mr. Bulut has drawn our attention from the example of the teacher's change in Dursunbey is, in fact, at the same time, why are there not so many appointments in history, and so many appointments are not made? A problem that explains criticism from the type of teacher. On the one hand, we want our teachers to be able to make appointments whenever they want, be able to go wherever they want, but at the same time, as soon as they leave, the classes they leave empty will be reinforced with teachers and new teachers. Of course, it's not possible, like the national education community, to have hundreds of thousands of teachers and millions of students in such an active area to make these kind of adjustments and to meet all variables at the most optimal level at the same time. It's not possible anywhere in the world, but we're hoping that we'll find a balance between good modeling, long-term planning, and supply and demand in a way that leads to minimal problems. I hereby thank our former ministers, Mr. Nimet Chief and Mr. Omar Dinçer. Because that's exactly what was brought up in a project that they started when I joined them yesterday. The subject of that project is in the 2023 perspective, and in the coming years, what is Turkey's need for teachers, in the field and in the geographical distribution area, and how is it affected by population activity? In this regard, a project group of Hacettepe University, Middle East Technical University, Gazi University and Ankara University have been working for three years, four years, and they have reached a certain level. Yesterday we held his evaluation meeting, his workshop meeting. As I stressed in my speech at that meeting, even after the rude data of this study was revealed, even the untrustworthy, very informal consequences even radically changed the demands of our students to certain departments of education. So, moving from the data of this study, students have become more preferable to some parts of the education school, while there have been serious decreases in preferences for some departments. It seems that the teacher's labor market has this elasticity, which can demonstrate this compatibility, if supported by the necessary scientific data. Hopefully, after such similar projects have been completed, it will be possible to draw a more humane framework so that we can make these arrangements and not leave teachers without teachers. I'd like to make a small addition: Now, yes, there have been serious changes in the Ministry of National Education during the AK PARTY. It also happened at the minister's level, but the change in name does not mean that the change in the name of the minister is a change in the basic line of our national education policy. Each of the four ministers left us a floor where we could put new values on it. I thank them separately. I especially thank Mr. Omar Dinçer because he's handed over the years of national education -- especially at the level of management, the organization structure -- to a ministry that is seriously reviewing, correcting, and, as I told us -- that we can work more freely, perform. I hereby thank all our former ministers in Mr. Omar Dinçer's person, not just those who served during the AK PARTY, but all our ministers of National Education.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0163par0642	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. According to the Civil Charter 60, Mr. Eker has a brief request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Eker. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I would like to think that Saladin Eyyubi University, which was founded in Diyarbakır by the Security Education, Culture and Health Foundation, will also contribute substantially to Diyarbakır's educational needs and to Diyarbakır's development. I care a lot about both sides. One: it is very important that a university in Diyarbakır is founded after Dicle University, for development. Because the population of the city center alone is close to 1 million people and has reached a certain point in the Tigris University, where it is actually the center of a region. A second university is very important, but something as important as that is that this university was founded in the name of Saladdin Eyubi, because it is the name of a university built in Turkey - Diyarbakir - also in Diyarbakir. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is important for both the region and Turkey, so I remember Salahaddin Ayyubi once again with mercy and gratitude. I wish the university well for all of us, and I thank all those who have worked hard. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Eker. I'm sorry about the technical malfunction. [[Continue]] I'm reading the third article: The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0666	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, we wish Mr. Secretary, the former head of the National Education Commission, Professor Dr. Nabi Avarian, the success of his new mission, and we wish him the best of luck. As our new Minister does the opposite of what the previous Minister did, the success rate will increase. Indeed, our Minister is a kind man, and he has kindly thanked all the former ministers, but there is no minister who has confused national education as much as Omar Dinçer. The minister's term, which snores and considers teachers hostile, must remain behind. The minister who failed to fulfill his promise to the teachers left before he could warm up his seat. The minister, who keeps teachers away from their wives, who shakes the family structure, will now look at the ministry from afar. Even as a former professor who doesn't know how to empathize, the Minister will not be considered worthy. National Education is free of the shame of being ruled by the minister, who is called the suicide minister.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0165par0669	She's for you. She's for you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0670	No one can tell you that the minister before you has completed his task with righteousness.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0165par0671	If Isparta could get rid of you...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0672	The Minister, who has cleared the ministry's national qualifications, has been idle with the recent cabinet change.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0166par0673	That's what they say behind your back!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0674	All the good things have been said behind my back.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0166par0675	We know, we know!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0676	You read, you learn.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0166par0677	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0678	And from now on, good things will be said. Let's see what Mr. Prime Minister sees fit for his former undersecretary, who is so confident, but has lost confidence in him. It is clear that national education is the head of management units that should be given to the owners of the trust. An underprivileged minister is of no use to the country or the nation. Whether or not he benefits from the party, the party's officials will know.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0167par0681	It's none of your business!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0168par0682	Mind your own business, mind your own business!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0683	However, the trust must be given to its owners, especially the teachers, school and institutional administrators, with objective criteria, with the measure of rights. Education society and public conscience should not be harmed in appointment and promotions, especially in the field of education. Dear lawmakers, a foundation was established on April 24, 2009, the Foundation for Precaution Education, Culture and Health. Among its founders are Mr. Ihsan Arslan, Mr. Galip Ensarioğlu, River Special, Vahetttin Bayat, Muzaffer Eza, Ferhan Kadayifcioğlu, Abdulaziz Özklıç, Abdulkadir Alakuş, Ahmet Kâmil Torun, Alaattin Koraka, Aytekin Serb and Behcet Balık. However, it is remarkable that Mr. Attila Kart....the motion to question Mr. Ihsan Arslan is still unresponsive. Our group has just submitted a petition recommending the establishment of the faculty of fine arts; it's impossible to understand why it hasn't been accepted.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0169par0686	It's a college of trust, private college.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0687	Wouldn't it be nice to have a prestigious faculty like a college of fine arts?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0170par0688	I hope that happens later.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0689	Saladdin Ayyubi is a good commander, and his courage, and his justice, and his reputation as a holy man of the state. We also wish that the university that bears his name will be a university that contributes to science, unites people, benefits our country, our nation. Mr. Secretary, before entering the meeting, the newly formed association officials of children who grew up in foster homes arrived. Our children who grow up in foster homes are left to their own after 18 years of age; the number of people who attend college is very few, about 2 percent. You have reached the age of 18, a generation that is no longer interested, and who have already faced many misfortunes and problems. The Ministry of National Education must help them by developing joint projects with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I consider it my duty to present this to your attention and appreciation. They can't get a job, or they can't get a high-ranking job, and he's still trying to get a job with 4,200 graduates. In addition, such dorms are required to be reinforced by pedagogs, development experts and other experts. These children have come into the world unfortunate, their lives in misfortune, suffering, especially psychological problems, and it's a human duty to help them. Mr. President, members of lawmakers and Mr. Secretary, Mr. Friday has used an internal separative tone.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0171par0692	He is a separatist.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0693	It's almost like the University of the AKP is being founded. You must remember that universities are universal institutions. My dear friends, identity politics is sometimes carried on by misunderstandings from this platform, and from time to time by prejudices and ideological attitudes. Let us all agree that I speak for myself: I am a Turk as Ziya Gökalp, a thinker as Diyarbakırr, a Turk as well as the famous Ziya Gökalp; I am as Kurdish as Salahaddin Ayyubi; I am as Bosniak as Marshall Çakmak; I am Albanian as Mehmet Akif; I am an immigrant like Mustafa Kemal; I am an Armenian like Artin Penik.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0172par0695	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0173par0696	You really can't be any of them. That you're none of it!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0697	You say funny things, Mr. Special, we're following you. Who knows about Artin Penik? When the ASALA militants martyred our diplomats, an Armenian citizen who burned himself in the Zombie Square in August 82, a very respected citizen, I bow before you with respect, and ask God's forgiveness. I am the son of Dede Korkut, and Yunus the son of Adam.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0174par0700	So you're like an ashram.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0701	I'm proud of who I am. The Turkish nation is an alloy, not an ashrabe, leave ignorance!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0174par0702	Tell him there, over there.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0703	No matter who says so, everyone gets a share.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0174par0704	You're not gonna tell us, you're gonna tell him.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0705	Jonah the son of Adam. Adam is a man, and Jonah is a strange Anatolian.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0175par0706	Tell Mrs. Birgül.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0707	I am a part of those who founded the Republic of Turkey, who rule the republic, and a part of those who praise it. We're all one, one for all. Turkish-Kurdish twins.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0175par0709	Tell Birgül Ayman Güler.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0710	Birgül Ayman Güler was right, too. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause] Yeah, look, guys, the Turkish nation and the Kurdish nation are not the same...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0176par0712	Now we know what you are.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0713	...the Turkish nation and the Turkish nation are not the same.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0177par0714	You're still repeating yourself.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0715	Turkish-Kurdish twins. The people who founded the Republic are brothers.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0178par0716	Take that back, take that back.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0717	The founders of the Republic are brothers, Turkish-Kurdish twins, republics...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0179par0718	You don't know the concepts.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0719	If you read it, you'll find out.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0179par0720	Learn those concepts first.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0721	Yes, leave what you do not know.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0179par0722	Don't talk to things you don't know!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0723	It is not ours to see the citizens of the Republic of Turkey separately, who share in grief and glory.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0180par0724	By God, we don't know what you are.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0164par0725	I salute those who founded the Republic of Turkey and wanted to raise the Republic of Turkey. Good luck with college.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0181par0728	Thank you, Mr. Proposer.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0182par0729	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0181par0730	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0182par0731	Mr. President, I'd like word on 69. He said I was using a separatist language.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0181par0732	Here you go. Please don't allow any more bullying, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0182par0736	How many times have you come to Diyarbakır, brother? Do you know Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0183par0737	I know.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0182par0738	Are you Kurd?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0183par0739	I'm Turkish.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0182par0740	If you really are as Kurdish as Saladdin Ayyubi, why aren't you in Diyarbakır? You're a sign party, signpost! You can't even vote, you can't even go east. You are the ones who separated us, because you abandoned us in the 1925s and in the 37s and in the 57s and in the 50s. Since then, you can't enter Diyarbakır. You need an abdest to get in, first of all, I'll tell you that. That's one. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Secondly, yes, we are not equal, alhamdulillah. And I don't want to be equal to you, but know this: We own this country; we own Edirne, and we own Diyarbakır. I am as Turkish as Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, and I am as Kurdish as Saladin Ayyubi because I am the owner of Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0183par0743	You mean what I said.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0182par0744	Oh, you be Armenian as an Armenian, Greek as a Greek, and I'll respect that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0184par0747	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0185par0749	I want to talk about bullying. On our way to Diyarbakir, we need to take abdest and discriminate.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0186par0750	It's Sahabas land, you need to take abdest.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0184par0751	Mr. Proposal, come in. Please don't give me any more taunts.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0754	Dear lawmakers, when I was appointed to the Governor's office in April 1980, I came to Diyarbakır, and I ate from the governor's kebab at Asim Kebab Hall in Office Square. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Listen to me before I mess with you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0188par0757	I'll put you up for a week. Do you have heart?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0758	Congressman, listen to the literary ones.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0189par0759	Get out of here, come on! You're going to teach us manners!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0760	I don't give bonuses to bullies. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I've been the real deal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0190par0763	You can't go into Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0764	I've come to Diyarbakir a lot. Diyarbakir's every...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0190par0765	You can't go into Diyarbakir!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0766	Is Diyarbakır your father's property? Diyarbakir is all of us, Tucson is all of us, Tripoli is all of us, Ankara is all of us, Izmir is all of us! May the separatists be damned!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0191par0768	Don't come to Tripoli, don't come to Rize.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0192par0769	Please remain calm, lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0770	I've been the real deal. Hasankeyf was attached to Gercush, then Mardin, then Batman.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0191par0771	Don't come to Trabzona!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0772	Those who don't have anything to say are trying to spend time picking on.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0193par0773	He didn't say you, he said CHP, he said CHP. You didn't understand what he said.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0774	You're mixing sociology, community science, concepts...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0194par0775	You don't have the heart to come to Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0776	You do the opposite of what you're saying, you say the opposite of what you're doing. The people who founded the Republic of Turkey are called the Turkish people.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0194par0777	Say that in Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0778	Of course I will, I just said it in the last Shamdinite. While you were sleeping, I was in Shemdinli.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0194par0779	Your heart is not enough!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0780	I was sent away by 200 Gercüşlü and Hasankeyfli at Diyarbakır Airport.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0194par0781	Say it in Diyarbakir, you don't have the heart!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0187par0782	I have my respects and thanks to the truth, and to Hasankeyf. I didn't do anyone any injustice, I didn't do anyone any injustice. I'm not an arms dealer. What laws have the arms dealers submitted to this Parliament, and we know well that one of them is called Mr. Friday Hearty. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit02spe0195par0786	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0195par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 329. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0196par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0195par0010	Sir.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0196par0011	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement so that he's on the record. They just mentioned that I'm an arms dealer, the orator who spoke. After five years of hunting and hunting equipment trafficking, I ended this activity three years ago. His term as governor is over. He's the one who gave permission to sell hundreds of hunting materials during the governorship.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0195par0013	Thank you, it's in the transcripts. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Muş MP Sırı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0197par0017	You don't have a group vice president, how come he's named after you?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0198par0018	Do I need your permission?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0197par0019	No, no, no. You don't have a group vice president.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0020	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0198par0021	What's it gonna be? Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0022	Mr. Sakık, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0200par0023	To speak for the group, you have to be appointed by the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0024	Here you go, Mr. Sakik. Go ahead.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0201par0025	There's been an assignment, so why does it bother you? Why does it bother you?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0200par0026	No, no, I'm saying let him do it. I mean, why are you being so annoying?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0027	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0201par0028	Look, we've been notified here.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0029	Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0202par0030	I'm giving you the right information. Look, you're the head of operations, and I'm giving you the right information. I'm just saying, without a group vice president here, there wasn't one just now, so he's got to give you a warrant.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0031	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0203par0032	Permission granted.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0202par0033	Okay, honey, then answer me like that! You have no right to answer hard.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0034	Mr. Young, please do not interfere in this conversation.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0202par0035	No, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0199par0036	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0037	Mr. President, dear friends, I wish this university well for Diyarbakir, for our country. We didn't really want to talk, we wished the law would pass right away, and we were hoping, but these racist attitudes, racist rhetoric... you know I'm going to bother you, so you're standing up there. As long as you're so racist and nationalist and fascist, it's up to us to expose you every day. Look, the other day, there was racism all over here three days ago, and you did injustice to a people here, and you know what you said? You can't sell Kurdish nationalism to me as progressive.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0205par0039	Your life is racist!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0040	We -- look, I'm telling you clearly -- we're not doing Kurdish nationalism. We underprivileged people all over the world have the right to decide fate. Kurds are also a oppressed people in this country. There are pressures on language, culture, identity, and you know how we've fought for many years to remove these pressures. And you're saying that you can't make the Turkish nation and the Kurdish nationality equal and equal. And from now on, we're in defense, and we're gonna use our right to self-defense. And your spokesman just said the same thing. Now, my dear friends, these policies of yours are not the policies that were formed today. From the founding of the republic to this day, you are racist, nationalist, monogamous, and you come from a tradition that oppresses the people.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0206par0042	You're talking in the mirror.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0043	Look, what does your National Chief say? The year is 1925. In his speech in Turkish January, he says: "We are clearly nationalists and nationalism is our only element of unity." None of the other elements have influence in the Turkish majority, he says. It is our duty to make the non-Turkish people Turkish in the Turkish country, he says. We will cut off those who will oppose Turks and Turkishism, he says. The quality we seek above all in service to the country is the Turkish quality. Signed: Your National Chief, and Ismet Inn.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0207par0044	How many years ago did he say that?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0045	Again, what did former ministers Şükrü Saraçoglu say? The year is 1942. We're Turkish. We're Turks and we'll always be Turks. For us, Turkishism is as much a matter of conscience as it is a matter of blood. And it's a matter of culture, he says. We're not going to be shrinking or reducing Turks; we're going to be multiplying Turks, he says. And that's where we'll always work, he says. And, again, Mahmoud Esat Bozkurt -- I said that on that day, today -- because these are your ancestors -- the only master of this country, the only master of this country. And, again, your president today, there's been a riot in that geography about the events of my class. He says, he's trying to avoid it. Their ancestors, their fathers, were slaughtered in the rebellion, and they say that such things can happen in the history of the republic, in the name of the revolution, not the revolution, but the fascism. When a people are slaughtered, 70,000 people are killed, it's called fascism.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0208par0048	From 1940 to today, come to this day!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0209par0049	70 grand?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0050	Honor Öymen, exactly, stood on this stand and defended the massacre of Dersim, and you listened shamelessly to him, and as we arrived today, Birgül Ayman advocates the same racism and fascism...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0210par0052	You're the racist on the stand!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0053	...and your Isparta MP just walked out and said, "Yes, it's true." In the beginning, he said things that would create a new revolution, embrace all the peoples, but the last thing you said was, "Yes, Mrs. Birgül Ayman is right." Now, if that's what you're saying, that's a shame.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0211par0054	You don't understand my words, Mr. Sakik!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0055	Look, it's all about racism and fascism. If you are saying these things, and you -- and I'll tell you clearly -- are comparing the year to the period after the 1924s, you would be very wrong. If you're trying to scare the Kurds today in the 1937s of the 1938s, if you're trying to scare them, you're very wrong, but the question is... look, what are you saying, what are you saying?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0212par0056	Come to today's slaughter; come to the slaughter of thirty years; let go of Dersim.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0213par0057	It's good when you do it, and it's bad when someone else does it!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0058	I'm talking about today's massacre. Your understanding, look, your understanding, what was yesterday's massacre, is the same as today's massacre, you say the same thing. If you're going out today and saying that this people, the Turkish people, are superior to the Kurds, it's called today's massacre.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0214par0059	You don't know the concept of the nation! It doesn't suit you, does it?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0060	Look, today's massacre... someone from the so-called AK PARTY is answering it. Sir, he's criticizing you... but you're making eyes when you're making eyebrows. What in God's name is enmity with these other peoples? Is this country just a farm for you Sunnis, Turks, I don't know who's father? Armenians live here, Jews live here, Greeks live here, and you respect other peoples. I mean, as racist as their rhetoric is, your behavior is just as racist, and I'm telling you, go look at Çanakkale, your ancestors didn't just go and fight there. And those who later gave birth to this land, and came from the Caucasus, and from the Bosniaks, you are not the owners of this land, but you will come to know.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0214par0061	You're full of shit, you're full of shit!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0062	The people who fought here and built the common land in this geography are the owners of this geography. You don't have the right to come from there and fire the farmer from the mountain.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0215par0063	I own this country more than you do. I'm the one who lives in the mountains of my class. Where did you come from? I'm the one who lives in the mountains.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0216par0065	You haven't spoken to Uludere in a month. Why did you forget?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0066	You are the sacrifice of the mountains of Dersim, and you are the sacrifice of those mountains. You're not worth polluting the mountains, and you're not worth taking your name for. You're an objector and a monotheist, and you're a denier and...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0217par0067	He's being racist. He's being racist.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0068	Look, I'll tell you something: you're going down every day with your policies, and we're going to hit you in the face with what your ancestors are saying here every day against your protestive and monotheistic policies. You will return, and you will apologize for what has been done in the past, and if today you speak to the Kurdish people, other peoples, or your ancestors' policies, you will see us before you every day, we say it so clearly and clearly. In fact, there's one thing we all have to do: look, there's a peace process going on, when everyone should be paying attention to their language, their rusty language, and you should be watching this rusty language... Look, why? You're afraid Turkey will bring inner peace. If the PKK comes out today, says to their armed forces, and we give up the gun, you'll be most uncomfortable. Because, these days...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0218par0071	That language won't hurt.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0072	We know this language. Because, in this geography, there was a climate. There has never been such a significant unity of peace in this geography. From the guerrilla family to their families, soldiers and martyrs, there has been a serious peace front from all four sides of society, and Turkey must now maintain that peace. Peace has matured and peace will be restored.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0219par0074	Who doesn't want peace?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0075	And if you count it out of the rejecters and deniers who feed on this war, you won't have 15 percent in Turkey. (x) The statement of this statement was found on page 205, page 61, dated 5/2/2013.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0219par0077	You're the ones who don't want peace.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0078	You fear for him, for him, and you return and insult the people.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0219par0079	Peace doesn't suit you. You feed on black money, you feed on dirty money.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0080	No one has the right to insult a single ring, even if it's just one. If you want to learn from democracy, look, look at this group, who's here? From one of his socialists to a Suryani, from Arab to Kurdish...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0220par0081	We've got people, we've got people, we've got people. Look, everybody's got a mom and dad.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0204par0082	Look, despite the impossible, there is a group that teaches you a lesson in democracy and teaches you a lesson in democracy in this Parliament. Here, look at these. Otherwise, we don't go back to scalping, triggering Turkicism, sir, going around the back of the Turkish race, where we all come from, wherever you come from, we don't know. We were the owners of this land, and we were on this land when you entered in 1071, and when the republic was formed, we were on this land. We, the Kurds, never in the Ottoman era, never returned to the Republic and betrayed the people of Turkey and stayed together. Betrayal is in your genetic heritage. Seek betrayal in your ancestors. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0221par0084	You're the one who committed the betrayal, you're the one who betrayed the country.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0222par0085	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0223par0089	Now, one of the words of your honor was true. All that talk, all that talk, all that insults, all that blasphemy...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0224par0090	You insult a people, and we submit to you?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0223par0091	First of all, I condemn the incursion of the council chair with such disgusting, shameless, immoral statements.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0224par0092	It is you who wrong a people.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0223par0093	But there's only one true thing that's been said here. It was said that no one has the right to insult a public. It's true, it's true, it's true, but you've come out of here, and you've insulted this geography, this Anatolian geography, and you've come from all over the world to date, to be together, and you've insulted countless people who've come to mingle.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0224par0094	I've never insulted anyone.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0223par0095	You said from the Caucasus, you said from the distant ones. I'm a guy from the other side of the water. Maybe you meant me, but you were very hurtful, so you've repeated the mistakes made here. That was very hurtful. You've insulted a people, a people here. When you were trying to protect something, to protect it, to defend it, you actually spilled it, you spilled it, you blew it. I really don't know how you're gonna pull it together. I'm done talking about it. That's exactly what it says in our program: we're far from race, origin, religion, sectarianism, territorialism, and that skullheading that you've just identified yourself with. We think those insights should be exceeded on a national level, which means our definition. We're not skullheads like you, I'd like to underline.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0225par0097	You're one to talk!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0223par0098	We don't count the Caucasus, or the outsiders, or what's going on here, and we don't underestimate them like you do. That's who we are. So, who are you, who are you? Actually, I'd like to ask you that, too. Have you ever asked yourself that? You should ask.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0226par0099	Please, tell us who we are, please, but let us know.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0223par0100	When you're not talking about anything other than ethnic identity every day, nothing else... always underlines, stops, and tries to create new hostility, even the size of an MP -- incrediblely exponential attitude -- when you're coming here and talking about it -- height, family politics -- to me, that's fascism every day when you're doing the best of racism.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0227par0101	Search your ancestors and roots for fascism!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0223par0102	And you -- excuse me -- when I say Armenian, Alevi, Zarathustra, when I say this, I want to ask you who are you? And you're actually trying to trick us with a story about drinking from the same water. He will separate the people of this country as Alevi, Sunni, Kurd, Turk, and then you will show us what you do as racism. History will one day write about who actually betrayed this land. O BDP! I'm speaking to you, too, after all the insults. A century ago... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think you should keep trying. A year ago, I'm telling you, if you're not holding onto the account of those people who were killed, the people who were bombed, and asking about this power, then you've got your hands in that blood.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0228par0107	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0229par0108	I don't need to say anything.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0228par0109	Here you go, Mr. Sakek. Please don't allow any more bullying.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0230par0111	Don't pick on all the words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0228par0112	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0231par0114	Dear friends, I have never wronged any people. We have great respect for all the peoples who come here to make this land their homeland, and who live here.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0232par0115	You never said that. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0231par0116	But look, I came out of there, and I said, "I'm here to humiliate the people who own this land."
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0232par0117	You've insulted outsiders, Caucasians, you've hurt them.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0231par0118	Look, I promise people who insult me. I'm your representative, I'm Bosniak, I've come from there... but when you come, you must respect the people of this geography. No one gives you that right. No one gives you the right to wrong Kurds or other peoples.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0233par0119	Talk about something other than racism, Sakak!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0231par0120	And when you got here, there was no land, no culture? There were people here, your ancestors. Look, just now, I'm telling you...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0234par0121	You mean our ancestors, your ancestors!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0231par0122	...racialist, monotheist, co-founder of the republic, and the first member of parliament of Kurdistan on this stand is your Mustafa Kemal, your Ismet Pasha, and then your denier, aren't they?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0235par0123	Do you remember Mustafa Kemal? When it suits you!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0231par0124	Well, then there's only one people in this country, and that's the Turks. Isn't that what he said?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0236par0125	If it weren't for Mustafa Kemal, you wouldn't be able to speak on that stand.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0237par0126	You speak on that stand because of Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0238par0127	He's the one who gave you that freedom, he built this coven!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0128	Let me tell you something: those who identify us with blood and us with violence, let them turn to themselves. If we keep your footprints, your footprints from here, our dream...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0237par0129	Your job is racism! Keep going on that road!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0130	...we'll find you in Ergenekon, we'll find you in the sledgehammer. Do not speak to Us. Look, there's a lot of them...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0240par0131	30,000 poor children...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0132	...his hands were infected with Kurdish blood in that geography.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0240par0133	Kurdish, Turkish, 30,000 people...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0134	And we've never had any gratitude from this party.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0241par0135	Oh, come on! That's where you feed, that's where you eat.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0136	We criticize them most of all. And most of all, we bring it up in Parliament, but we turn around and find out that you're...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0242par0137	You're the racist!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0138	You can't sell us your monogamy. And we never said that the Kurdish people were superior to the Turks.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0243par0139	You've said nothing but racism!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0140	...all the peoples are equal. We said, and we never turned and said, "Oh, my God, the Kurdish people are a good race, but they have more of the Turks. We don't look at life that way.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0243par0141	You don't understand, go to Turkish class first, then study!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0239par0142	The bond of blood and gene between us is not too sacred, but also the bond of emotion that is sacred to us. If we say so, we have united our destiny with the people of Turkey. Its name is a bond of emotion, its name is not blood and gene.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0244par0143	Is it from him that you insult the people of the Caucasus, or do you debase the people from the other side of the water?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0245par0144	What, are we going to be people of Turkey from now on? We're Turkish people.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0246par0145	Please...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0247par0146	We have not insulted any of them, but if he comes from the other side of the water and persecutes a people and wrongs the language and culture of the people here, and he sees himself as a superior race, I will not say one word to him, but a thousand words to him. No one has the right or the law to do that, and you know you're going down in this swamp every day. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0248par0149	You're the one who's going down, who's going down!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0249par0150	You're the one who's going down! You're the one who's going down!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0250par0151	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0251par0152	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0250par0153	Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0251par0154	Sir, there's been some unconfirmed bullying against our party group and the founder of the republic, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clarify that.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0250par0155	Mr. Proposal, I give you my word...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0252par0156	He's no expert on that, Mr. President. Explain what?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0253par0157	Mr. President, he may speak for the group, Mr. Proposer.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0252par0158	Mr. Öner has no expertise in this matter.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0254par0159	What are you looking for, sir?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0252par0160	I mean, he doesn't have any expertise in this, Mr. Prevalent.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0255par0161	How do you know? Are you an academic?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0254par0162	Does every talking congressman have a specialty? Please...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0256par0163	You decide?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0255par0164	It's your call!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0257par0165	You've been sitting around all morning. What an expert! You're making soup and you're trying to get out of it.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0258par0166	You are most welcome, Councillors, I invite you all to come to common sense. Mr. Öner, please don't allow any more bullying, please speak properly.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0259par0170	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will come forward with a report on what was said here today. What is said here today is called the Turkish people who founded the Republic of Turkey. I gave you an epiphany of the speech. I served all over the state of the Republic of Turkey. Everywhere I served, I didn't exclude any race, any sex, any sect, anyone; I embraced everyone. All the places I served in Turkey have witnessed it. I started running for governor at Giresun, and then...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0260par0172	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0259par0173	The person who says, "Woe be to you! " must examine the honorable past of Ali Haydar Özar. We've embraced all citizens everywhere. We embrace it as the Republican People's Party. The great Ataturk has succeeded in the national struggle with Diyap Agha, with the leaders of the Alemi-Bektashi faith, with the villagers-villen citizens, with the civil soldier bureaucracy, and the nation has established its identity as a concept that covers all elements. I just said in my speech: Turkish is a Kurdish twin; the people who founded the Republic of Turkey are brothers. What's racist about that? We're watching Mr. Sırrı Sakık, sir, starting with a prejudice in his speeches, ending with prejudice. Please, let's leave this. I mean, if we don't all embrace each other, if we're not united in sorrow, in glory, in unbreakable unity, how will we glorify our country, our nation, sir, our people, our development, our unity? For him, it is our duty to respect the founders of the republic. The Republic wasn't built so easily. All the peoples in Turkey, Kurd, Anatolia... I even made the governorship of Çankırı, when even the Armenian women in Çanrı, even the Greek women in Çankırı, knitted stockings and made clothes for our soldiers. I told him about Artin Penik. He's an Armenian citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Our diplomats are being martyred. He burned himself. Let us be one, let us be great, let us be alive, let us glorify our country, our nation, and let us not diminish our respect for those who built the republic. I pay tribute to all the people of Turkey, to all our citizens, to any ethnicity, to any member of the faith, to our citizens.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0261par0181	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. [[Continue]] On behalf of him, Amassian MP Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0262par0190	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. It's just that the way I talk really loud here, the way I talk, the way I talk about things, the way I talk about things, the way I talk about things, the way I talk about things, the way I talk about things, the way I talk about things, the way I talk about things, the way I talk about things. Even if two people try to argue about a personal matter like this -- which happens in television programs, their purpose is different -- their agreements are not expected. In a matter with such a large amount of history, suffering, anxiety, anxiety, and anxiety, such tense, angry, and aggressive talks, such as identity, certainly, are not a form of unity here in the sense that everyone means. If we want unity, if we want unity in this country, let's be alive, let's be united. We need to use a language that's certainly in a manner of speaking that's appropriate, that embraces our conversations, that touches their pain and their wounds, not just to tell them of their own feelings, but to penetrate the feelings of others in this land. Dear friends, in this geography, the period when racism, nationalism -- of course, different concepts -- was the Ottoman period of collapse. Every nationalism debate, of course, stems from historical, social conditions, but also calls the other one. If there's talk of racism in Turkey today, I assure you, there are reciprocal racial feelings behind it. Nobody's racist on their own. One reciprocal racism calls the other. So, instead of blaming him for being racist, what is our role in this system of things that raises racism, and what does it bring to this country, these people? This must be our way of thinking. If we want unity and unity...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0263par0194	The Prime Minister, who raised racism, has been scratching for years as an ethnic group. It is Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself who is a racist.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0262par0195	Racism never really held up on this land. There are those who want to do the racism of Turkish nationalism, remember, in the past. In fact, in the past, in history, especially at the time of the rise of fascism, Naziism, at a time when the world paradigm of that time, some people in the CHP at that time paid their respects to the Führer, and it's true, you see newspapers. Şükrü Saraçoglu, indeed, said that Turkish nationalism is not only a matter of culture but also a matter of blood. Because, at the time, the Nazis were on the rise, and it was supposed that the new world would be a racially fundamentally hierarchical world...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0263par0196	In 1944, they put the Turks in prison too, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0262par0197	But it was destroyed, that world was gone. Because it's a racist and hierarchical world that contradicts the most basic human values, if we're human, if there are some values that make us human, it wouldn't be possible. It's not just America, Europe and so forth, it's that deep conflict with humanity. If racist rhetoric is coming forward in Turkey today, it's because they're calling each other. Please, if everyone here looks at their share based on an opinion as to how he is the perpetrator of this system of things, then indeed, we will work for the good of this geography, for the good of this country, for the good of these people. Let's not close our horizons with this country as we discuss issues related to Turkey -- the Kurdish issue, the Turkish issue. As long as we don't think about it on the geography scale, there's no way out of here. While thinking about Kurdish, while thinking about Turkishism, while thinking about Arabs and Persians, we need to build our own references on a major regional theory. If we don't do this, everyone will build a dramatic prison of their identity and open the doors to a world where they're fighting with the other one.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0264par0200	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0262par0201	No one says I'm a racist, dear friends. But racism puts itself on the line for a lot of reasons. So, really, everyone has to be very careful with the way he talks and the way he talks, and especially the way other people feel, but it can only protect us from racism.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0265par0203	Sir, thank you very much. I hope the Prime Minister will read what you're saying, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0264par0204	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. Congressmans, if you'll excuse the university establishment, let's go back. There's a QA, lawmakers in the system. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0266par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Dean of the School of Education at the University of Cırklareli has suggested that universities be transformed into madrasses, and the faculty be educated. At the University of Alparslan, the medrese symposium was organised. A similar symposium is organised in the Van. With co-operation of university and governorship. To what do you attribute the love of the madrasa that has emerged in these recent years? As Minister of National Education, I'm very interested in your opinion on this matter, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0267par0211	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0268par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the Minister the success of his new mission. Minister, the habit of reading in Turkey is very low. In this regard, it also affects the success of higher education. UNESCO has made reports of the world's reading habits. According to the report, Turkey is ranked among the world's countries by reading books. According to the study, Turkish people who watch TV for six hours average of six hours a day and travel around the Internet for three hours spend only six hours a year reading a book, unfortunately. Reading a book is ranked number 235, on the list of needs. Reading books, however, is important for personal development as well as for brain development. In Japan, a book falls to 25, France, 7 to 12,089 people in Turkey. According to the United Nations Human Development Report, the number of books printed per capita among 173 countries has been shown as a reason for Turkey's falling into 86th rank among countries such as Malaysia, Libya, Armenia. The FATIH Project cannot resolve this issue unless additional measures are taken, but support for a national campaign is essential. Mr. Secretary, what are the measures you're considering? Why do we read little? The lack of reading habits in research leads to 50%.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0269par0218	Thank you, Mr. Irbet. Dear Silver... no. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0270par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Serindağ asks what reasons could there be for the increase in recent studies on madrases -- as far as I understand it -- in Turkey. Do I understand correctly, Mr. Serindağ?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0271par0223	But what the dean says is different. He has a suggestion, would you care to explain your opinion on that suggestion?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0270par0224	If you'll excuse me, may I ask the proposal again?
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0272par0225	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0271par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary, the Dean of the School of Education at the University of Cırklareli has suggested that universities be madrassed and that schools be converted into schools. There's an extension, it says: "All schools should apply the curriculum of imam-hatred schools." I'm curious to know your opinion on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0273par0229	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0274par0231	I thought you were asking about the reasons behind the fact that the culture of madressa has recently come up in colleges with workshops, with conferences. But let me try to give you an answer that includes that, together. What is the root of Madrasa? It's where they teach. If the President of the University of Cırıkkale says that there are places where the universities are taught at the same time as the madrases -- in line with etymology -- that is, etymologically speaking, it's true. If he wants the imam-hating schools curriculum to be applied in all schools... I didn't read those statements. But how can a university member or a professor or a professor suggest such a curriculum? It doesn't apply to the spirit of this concept of university, nor to the spirit of the concept of madrassa. So let the rectors speak freely, and let the teachers speak freely. There are things in them that we don't like, and sometimes things happen that you don't like. But a friend of ours -- I can't remember who he was -- at our college debates before this -- I think Metin Lütfi Baydar Bey -- recommended the Book of the Man Who Seeks Water. I remind you of that advice once again. I agree. Look, there he is, talking about Sevket Taraya, Ahmet Hamdi Akseki, one evening, one night, the coffee he drinks in prison, he says: "My son, there's a lot of rumors everyone's thinking about here, and there's probably a lot of rumors. Let's not refer to anyone based on the differences in these etymological myths. I think our universities will benefit from these discussions. As the Ministry of National Education, we also benefit from these discussions. We'll take advantage of your actions against them. Thank you. Mr. Irbeç says that the percentage of reading is very low, what do you intend to do about it? You're absolutely right. So the bottom line is, if we go further back, we have problems with Turkish, we have problems with Turkish education, we have problems with Turkish teaching. Each of us is already living it in our daily lives. For this, schools have what they can do, they have what the media can do, we politicians have what we can do, but because you ask as Minister of National Education, first of all, we aim to teach our children, starting in elementary school, to speak English, to write and to listen. For that to happen, of course, our teachers need to come back to this area once more, with this consciousness, into the classrooms. Hopefully, we intend to allow our children to use their native language properly, correctly, and then spread it to different areas, not only in the context of the curriculum and textbooks, but also in visual, physical features. I don't know if that answers your question.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0275par0239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0274par0240	Thank you. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-31sit03spe0276par0242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been adopted and legalized. Members of parliament, in order to support international efforts in the fight against the piracy/sea banditry and armed robbery of the Turkish Armed Forces, the Aden Gulf, Somali waters and deficits, the sea and other tasks provided to the government for deployment in the Arab regions, on Tuesday (February 5th) 15th, 2013, according to Article 92 of the Constitution. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
