tbmm-2013-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 24th Year of the Fourth Legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. There are enough meetings, we're going to talk. Congressmans, I wish the new year of legislation to be good and good luck for our country, our nation, and for all of us, and to have a healthy, peaceful, successful year of work. At the beginning of my words, I thank and thank the first President of our Parliament, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who chaired our House, and all our states and political men, our martyrs, our veterans, and our members, and our members of the House. I salute you and our honored guests. From the beginning of the 24th century, 800 draft laws have been submitted to the Turkish Parliament, 1,725 legal proposals and 35 laws, and 363 have been imposed on the commissions and the General Assembly. In addition, 53 Parliamentary decisions have been made in our House. Again, the 982 immunity files came to our House during this period. In this period 4,643 verbal question motions have been issued, 1.534 (a.k.a.), and 1,534 (a.k.a.) have been answered. The 29,137 written motion has also been answered. At this time, we received 21 general consultation motions, which were adopted by the General Assembly. In addition, three general consultation proposals are on the agenda and 14 are in the process. Meanwhile, during the 24th Legislature, 2,063 parliamentary research proposals were issued, 37 of which were adopted and six parliamentary research commissions were set up. Dear MPs, the Turkish nation has three of its most important gains in the last century. We now understand how important and vital these are after the human dramas in our nearby community, in our region. First of all, our independence with our blood and our lives. The whole world and history have witnessed what conditions and challenges this great nation has achieved. Second, the Republic of Turkey is the Republic of Turkey after the independence of our glorious national struggle. The third is democracy, despite some shortcomings and some serious problems from time to time. The greatest honor in receiving these gains is undoubtedly our beloved nation, this great Assembly of its representatives. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the Veteran Assembly, which runs and governs the national struggle, and is the only Parliament in the world to form the state. In the past and in the present, states were established, and then parliaments were formed, and our nation had fought the sacred battles of Erzurum and Sivas, and then decided on his behalf -- April 23, 1920 -- that he had formed his parliament and established his army and his state into the republic. He then met democracy by experiencing, living, and experimenting with the transition to multi-party life. We all owe a deep debt of gratitude to those who have given us these gains. Here we are, lawmakers, lucky people who have had the privilege of serving our nation under the roof of an exceptional institution that has achieved these historic achievements. It's a proud share for us, for our families. It is clear that both this gain and this semantics burden us with great responsibilities. Therefore, it is our primary duty to maintain the dignity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'd like to bring this to your attention, especially after what we've been through. The future of our democracy, the trust in democracy, depends on it. We, our country, our region, and even all of the world's problems that concern us, under this sacred roof, in group meetings, in commissions, and in the General Assembly, we will discuss, and we will discuss, and we will conclude. Let us not forget that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the heart of our nation, of the republic and of democracy. This institution, above all of us, has a separate personality that exceeds us. The more aware we are of this fact and word and action, the more power and dignity we will gain as political institutions and MPs. I'd like to offer these matters to your high appreciation. Dear MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the most important source of power for our democracy and our people. Our Parliament has a great deal to do with our country's struggle to exist in the absence of a situation today. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has established the state, and has worked hard to achieve the level of modern civilization by making legal, institutional and structural arrangements at every time, and has continued to provide solutions and solutions to our nation's problems, and will no doubt continue now. We've accomplished very important work for our country and our nation, along with our 903 years of history, but we have more work to do. We can't live with what's happened, we have visions for our nation, we have goals, and we have wishes. It is our duty to ensure what we wish for. Parliaments are not the institutions that wish, they are the institutions that create solutions and solutions. That's why we're here, that's why parliaments are based on a reason for historical existence. We have a lot of problems inside and out that need to be solved, no need to go into detail, we know that. We have to resolve these problems together by discussing and talking and respecting each other's law and compromise. We cannot achieve modern democracy by describing the example and practice of democracy and reconciliation of other countries. With regard to the issues I've developed, we have to set new examples between us and today. That's how democracy develops, roots and institutionalizes, and that's what democracy culture does. We now understand that democracy is not just about legal regulations, but about the change of mentality, about absorbing democracy and adopting it. Congressmans, there are some agendas that we all regret and follow closely. It's a human drama, especially in the Middle East and North Africa. Despite all the words of blood, tears, human eroding values, rights, law, freedom, mass killings, terrorism, crimes against humanity, crimes against international institutions and the irresponsibility of the civilized world, and the machiavelist and mechanistic politics they run against them. It is mind-blowing that the perpetrators of crimes and support, despite the way and the way of killing and the weapons used in the attack, the focus of the debate, the public view of crimes against humanity and crimes against humanity. Another issue is terror. The issue of terror is the bitter truth of our country, our region, and even the whole world, the plague of the century. Unfortunately, there is no common understanding, no common attitude, and no international cooperation in this matter. We, as a country, are opposed to all kinds of terrorism, including murders and atrocities committed primarily by the name of God, which is state terrorism, and we will continue to be. It is a waste of the mind that the people's chosen and employed governments are removed from office by bloody military intervention, and the whole world's stand against it. Congressmans, the reason I'm saying these things is simply because we're more aware of the blessings of our independence, our republic, and our democracy, so that we know more about each other's value. Our national unity and integrity are our greatest strength in this holy land. For him, we stress it on every occasion, because strength is together, and so is life. That's what we pray for. Common sense, tolerance, respect for each other's personality, values, and law, is a prerequisite for peace, peace, and brotherhood, and the roots of our democratic culture depend on it. Congressmans, before I finish, I'd like to point out that the new year of life is an opportunity for self-criticism about what we've done and what we can't do. We know what we're doing, but there are things we can't do. Although our nation's longing and expectation and our commitment to our nation together, even though it is a necessity and necessity, for example, by compromise and agreement, we have yet to put a new and civil constitution before society, with its priorities, principles, balances and standards well established. Far from the goal we set, we continue to work in a process where hope is dwindling day by day. I don't know where this process is going to lead us. How do we take responsibility for not being able to make a new constitution, how do we explain it to our people? We've all agreed that this Constitution is too narrow for us, not responding to the need. This Constitution raises new problems every day. How will we find proper solutions to the problems we face when we continue to carry out wrong regulations, new rules, and we cannot do what is right? As a matter of fact, we didn't find it. The issue of arrested MPs, the issue of rights and freedoms, the problem of terrorism, the problem of democracy, many other social problems; we have not found a satisfactory solution to all of this. Based on the explanations, this is the biggest obstacle to modern democracy. However, because of the failure to make a new constitution, we also have a contradiction and we are living, which is that when we look at the texts that our four political parties have given to the Constitutional Compromise Commission, it is clear that there are radical changes to the entire Constitutional Compromise Commission. This Commission was established because the current Constitution was wrong, incomplete, inadequate, and was jointly defined by all of us who did not respond to the need. If we can't make a new one, this constitution will remain in effect, and we, the legislature, will continue to pass laws that will fit this Constitution with shame. It's a contradiction. The Constitution will also call off the law, saying, "Why did you not obey the law? " When and for how long will this conflicting process continue? Democracy is the name of the system where the right rules are enforced. In a system where the wrong rules are in effect, the solution to problems is referred to personal abilities, ways to find a way. Dear lawmakers, how can we do a productive work with 155 articles that have been a source of great stress for all of us, neither effective living nor effective control, which have been the source of more violent, hurtful debates every day, which have been prepared by the bilateral Parliament structure 40 years ago, have been modified and broken in integrity? Right now, we're trying to do business with the actual Civil Code. Everyone wants their own interpretation and practice. We've set up commissions in the last period and in this period, and we've done studies, but there's no new domestic regulations that we can implement yet. We're all complaining about monogamy. From the parties on the right to the center and left parties, we were able to do nothing together in the unity of the political parties' Law, which made us all wear the same clothes and make it mandatory for one form of organization, in spite of the changes that were made and the change that would be made, in the recognision of election legislation and political law. So, who's going to do all this? The Constitution, the Civil Code, the Political Parties Act, election legislation. Other legislation on these issues constitutes our common law. These are the fundamental elements of our building a healthy and sound political structure. The current policy law faces strict, prohibitive rules, the facts of politics and the expectations of the public. Legal legitimacy and political legitimacy don't match. The framework of legal legitimacy forces real politics, takes hostages. Yesterday's rules don't solve today's problems, they don't meet our expectations. After all, we get hard, we get broken, we become a more angry, more tense society. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have a lot of work, a long way to go, but time is short. Let's make a fresh start together to solve our problems. I assure you, it's not too difficult, but it's necessary. With this faith and hope, I wish the new year of life to the Turkish nation and to all of us. And for the purposes of my letter to you today, I respectfully submit to your knowledge. May God help our nation, all of us, with all due respect. [[Applause]] Congressmans, Mr. President, the General Assembly Hall is now in session to make the opening statement for the new year of legislation. I welcome them in the name of our coven. . [[AC PARTY standing ovations from CHP, MPP and BDP ranks]] [[Identical March]] Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-01sit01spe0002par0035	Mr. President, dear MPs, at the opening of the 24th Year of the Fourth Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I am very pleased to address you, and I salute you all with my sincerest feelings. At the beginning of each year of life, I share with you my views on the developments that concern our country closely from this bench. Six years ago, as a congressman, I was sitting in your seat right now. It is the High Assembly, where you are a member, who has elected me President. This Parliament, the furnace of our salvation, our organization, and our democracy, is the final guarantee of our future and future. For the six years I've served, I've always carried the pride and honor of being the 11th President elected by the High Assembly. While fulfilling my constitutional responsibilities, on the one hand, I watched closely the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the true representative of sovereignty. On this occasion, I would like to thank our precious political parties and all of our MPs, who have been working hard to live and move forward in the dynamics of our democracy. During this process, I made the ultimate effort to use the authority and responsibilities of the Constitution, democratic principles, rule of law, public conscience and the sensitivities of our nation. I took care of the normalisation of Turkey, leaving behind the controversy and coercion that did not suit the democratic maturity of the 2007 election process. I supported the determination and determination of our Parliament and our people to eliminate veiled custody that clouded the will of the nation, endangering our political lives from time to time. Mr. President, valuable MPs; political parties compete with each other in pluralistic democracies; eventually the country wins. Turkey has always won from your democratic struggle, and will win. We just need to turn our eyes a little beyond our borders to see how valuable this gain is. I sincerely believed in the determination of the elections, the virtue and honor of the chest, as a man of active politics, who did the Prime Minister and the State Department. I was never shaken by the belief that our people would eventually project their national will into the chest and into the government of the country, even when the democratic legacies were forced or put underfoot. I've always realized that democracy requires tolerance, endurance, patience, determination, and sacrifice. Again, I always remembered that democracy is a system of brakes and balances. I've defended democratic reforms at every turn in terms of an idea of a democratic democracy that is participating, pluralistic and expanding freedoms. Therefore, in terms of basic human rights and democratic values, despite all the tragedies around us, I have never lost faith that democracy, the rule of law, will eventually prevail in our region. Under the circumstances, I think the most meaningful contribution we can make to the brothers and sisters who turn their faces and hopes to Turkey will be to keep Turkish democracy strong and strong. The most important element of our 200-year-old tradition of constitution and democracy is the election in the trust of judges. In less than two years, our country will have three major elections. They will be placed before our people, where they will choose their preferences freely. As it has always been, everyone will respect the national will that I'm sure will be held in the spirit of a democracy feast, and those who win the election will represent our entire nation. A polarization, sometimes witnessed during election times, the most fundamental condition of democracy, is of no use to our political parties or to our country. In our country, polarisation, which begins with political debate, can sometimes be gained a quality that touches identity, beliefs, sensitivity. Such polarization, of course, poses a danger of disrupting our nation's social influence. We can't look at every matter from a black-and-white, right-right, just-right, from us, from a friendly enemy. Essentially, social solutions can be carried out in more gray areas, medium and compromise. Because human beings don't like molds, camps, preconceptions, prejudices and other things. In fact, countries that are away from polarization become normal. Reforms are only permanent when the polarization doesn't take place. So, by avoiding polarization, let's maintain the values and virtues of our democracy as a society, let's all be vigilant about the dangers of democracy. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, progress in a country, social peace, prosperity and happiness may be possible under the roof of democracy. However, democracy is not a static system; it is a living, evolving, and adapting to change. In recent years, many radical reforms, which could be called the silent revolution, have been implemented in order to improve our democratic standards. In this process, opposition has contributed as much to power as it has. What a benefit it is to continue this spirit of reform that is appreciated in the East and in the West! Enlargement of rights and freedoms is only possible with this spirit of reform that our country can be made easier and better managed. In this context, I would like to say that I welcome the new steps that were announced yesterday by Mr. Prime Minister, which I believe will solve our country's important problems. I also believe that this process must be continued. A young, dynamic, and rapidly urbanizing society such as Turkey has never finished its needs and demands in the democratic system, always has continuity. With that understanding, I saw the peaceful actions of young people who exhibit environmental sensitivity and urban aesthetic concerns at Travel Park as a new manifestation of our democratic development. There was no doubt that this time our country, which has been remembered for many years for unjust executions, torture and severe human rights violations, would be raised with concerns and demands similar to those in advanced democracies. Therefore, both I and the government officials have stated that good-willed messages were received immediately after the actions. However, some extremist groups have attempted to exploit peaceful demonstrations by using violence and displaying vandalism. These actions, which began with good intentions, eventually took the wrong form of public order. In the end, unfortunate events have affected the perception of our country, and unfortunately, we have lost six members of the police in the process. To all our citizens who have lost their lives in these acts and events, I wish them God's mercy, and my condolences to their grieving families. In this process, all violations of the law, particularly the excessive use of force that we have witnessed from time to time, are being investigated and judicial processes continue. As a nation, we need to learn the necessary lessons from these events, to be sensitive, especially to understand the feelings of young generations, with detailed sociological studies. In democracies, different ideas, objections can be expressed within the limits of law and legitimacy without being involved in violence, thus attracting the attention of authorities and public opinion. However, these actions and demonstrations should not interfere with the general course of public life and do no harm to other citizens' rights and freedoms. The introduction of democratic messages and demands through violence and the receiving of these messages are out of the question. In cases of illegal corruption in society, authorities must, of course, carry out their duties. By putting these events behind us, we must now look forward and take advantage of these experiences to strengthen the participation and pluralistic qualities of our democracy. Let's not forget that our differences are the color and pattern of our national fabric. Basically, these colors and patterns form our nation as one. Therefore, it is essential for social peace to approach all identities, beliefs, and lifestyles with respect and to resolve their problems. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the separation of forces, the free press and effective opposition are among the essentials of democracy. The effective and efficient work of legislation, executive and judiciary; the presence of a serious, constructive, powerful opposition; a free, critical, neutral and independent media is very important for the democratic development of countries. The existence of a media that has the will to use their freedoms guaranteed by constitution and laws gives our democracy power. As I said from this bench last year, it is in the best interest of our entire country to correct the shortcomings or wrong practices that have arisen in all these matters. Because it has allowed democratic rights and freedoms to be used in the most broad way, there is not a single country in the damaged world. Therefore, the highest democratic standards in our country, which has an elite place in its territory with its functioning democracy, must become our primary priority. On the other hand, no matter how well the constitutional institutions and guarantees work in a political and social order where democratic culture is not internalized, there is no mention of the existence of a truly mature democracy. It is important for our country's future that all of our political parties strive to improve our democratic culture. One of the most critical actors in the creation of democratic culture is undoubtedly the media. In this regard, it is important that the media recognize this responsibility with a constructive attitude. Dear lawmakers, I have always argued that the Kurdish problem, which is the result of long years of neglect and our democratic shortcomings, could be solved again in democracy. I either pioneered or supported all the reforms conducted in this direction. I've always believed that those efforts should be done for the sake of our nation, not for politics. I've always expressed that as a nation, we can solve our own problems with great confidence. I saw our people's demands for right, justice and broader freedom and the removal of wrongs against conscience as the most honorable duty of our state and government. I believed that the honor and reputation of these solutions would belong to our government and our nation. Our government is already in the process of resolving with good intentions and courage. As a result of these efforts, the peace of mind has increased our people's hopes for peace, peace, and prosperity. During my visits to Anatolia, I personally witness the excitement of our people during my talks in various parts of Turkey. The steps necessary to perpetuate the present peace of silence and to crown the process with a brotherhood's peace must be taken with silence and determination. This, of course, cannot be a negotiation process. The bottom line is that the solution lies in increasing the standards of our democracy. The way to consolidate our nation's unity and unity is to ensure that all our citizens believe and embrace our country's future equally and decisively. Democratic ownership and progress can't be achieved with threats, with violence. The people of a country with a long-standing state tradition such as Turkey certainly know how to deal with such threats. Therefore, everyone must contribute to good - meaning efforts by acting in a sense of responsibility. The tragedy in our nearby region has shown how important it is to claim our country, our democracy, our national unity and integrity. Turkey, which the people of the region view as hope, should not extinguish the opportunity and hope of its own peace. Mr. President, I think you'll recall that last year, I stressed the pessimism of the painting in my assessment of global and regional developments from this bench. Unfortunately, at this point today, we're looking at a much more negative, fragile, and more pessimistic picture. The losses expressed by thousands in Syria last year have exceeded 100,000 this year, chemical weapons that have led to mass killings have been used, and nearly half of the Syrian population has become refugees. The civil war in Syria, which surrounds ethnic, religious, religious, religious, and ideological fault lines, poses a risk and a threat to the entire region. In Egypt, also, the most important country in the Arab world, the experience of democracy, which initially brought great hopes to life. Again, the wave of terror and violence that have been going on in our neighbour Iraq for the past ten years has only killed 1,500 people in the last holy month. In addition to all of this, large and small conflicts, terrorist acts, poverty and social unrest continue elsewhere in the world. As you know, I made numerous contacts in New York, where I was last week on the grounds of the General Assembly of the United Nations. The international community's attitude is also sad when I give you its summation in the face of dire circumstances. In the first thirteen years of the 21st century, when we began with great hope, mankind faces tragedies that are not appropriate for this century. Chemical weapons banned about a hundred years ago are being used, similar to the sectal conflicts in the Christian world in the Middle Ages, unfortunately this time among Muslims in our region. Similar wars of ideological competition and power of power, such as the cold war we think we left behind, are being staged in Syria today, and radicalism and extremism are spreading at a global level. The democratic transformation process has entered a painful period that will strengthen the link between rulers and those ruled in the Arab world. The global and regional conjunctive that I'm talking about forces our country, naturally, and perhaps the most, to make tough foreign policy choices. Despite this negative picture, our country continues to be an island of stability in its region and a source of hope with its functioning democracy and developing economy. In fact, I think the most basic foreign policy priority for us is to maintain this position, which gives us the ability to be soft and virtuous, and to preserve what we have achieved so far. Only this way Turkey can contribute to the democratic transformation and transformation of its environment. Thus, setting priorities in this way is also a requirement of our responsibility to our people and the high interests of our country. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the civil war in our neighbour Syria, is undoubtedly the most serious foreign policy issue in our country. The use of chemical weapons has brought a new dimension to civil war. The international control of chemical weapons in Syria has been found under the United Nations' roof. First of all, I would like to point out that as Turkey, we are pleased that all chemical weapons in Syria will be destroyed in an manageable manner, as soon as possible. I also hope that this process, initiated to clean up chemical weapons in Syria, would be the first step in a new security architecture that would lead to the removal of all Middle East, including nuclear weapons of mass destruction. However, steps regarding chemical weapons must not be forgotten the true nature of the human tragedy in Syria. Blood and violence flowing through the country must be stopped. There is the greatest massacre of the 21st century in which more than 100,000 people have lost their lives. If this savage civil war cannot be put to rest, I'm afraid we'll all see that next year these numbers continue to fold. The international community will no longer remain motionless in the face of the situation that has hurt its dignity and conscience. The support of the Syrian people should not be sacrificed to power balance policies, Cold War mentality, power of attorney wars and narrow interest accounts. Civil wars are the cruelest of wars. As these conflicts go on, radicalism and extremism take root, creating its own infrastructure, not just the civil war country, but the regional and global stability. We have seen examples of this in Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, and we continue to see it. In this context, for whatever reason and source, I condemn any act that brutally slaughters innocent people. It is undoubtedly among the priorities of our national security policy to keep our country away from the dangers that are sprouting right next to you. Another major problem for neighbouring countries in Syria is the issue of refugees. It is our nation's honorable duty to embrace the people who seek refuge in our country from conflict and attacks in Syria. The whole world is a witness that our country has carried out this responsibility with great sacrifice and care. As of today, it is imperative that Syria be re-managed and re-runable in order to ensure the ties and ties of the Syrian people in our country, which have found the hundreds of thousands, to their homelands. Otherwise, there are remarkable examples in the world of how permanent this situation has become a difficult and permanent problem for refugees and for accepting states. Dear lawmakers, we must continue our efforts to ease the suffering of the Syrian people and stabilize the region through a comprehensive and well-planned political exit strategy with the international community. Our ultimate goal should be the construction of a new Syria, a peaceful, territorial integrity and political unity with its own people and neighbors. A new Syria after a transition period should never include those who committed war and crimes against humanity. In the end of the ongoing human drama in Syria, I believe five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and the sincere efforts of neighbouring countries to Syria can play a decisive role. Sooner or later, I want to maintain hope that humanity's common conscience will open an exit door that will end this violence. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude for the humble attitude of our people, which is somehow affected by this difficult process that Syria has gone through. Mr. President, the development of Egypt, a country that has hosted great civilizations, has always been important in both the Arab world and the Islamic world. We believe that Egypt's future lies in a system in which its people's free will prevails, constitutional legitimacy prevails, and fundamental principles of democracy are implemented. In this direction, we hope that the brother Egypt will move back to democracy as soon as possible, the release of political prisoners, and all the free and fair elections that will cover the country's wounds. We are two people and countries who have been constantly interacting on both sides of the Mediterranean. As Turkish people, we sincerely desire Egypt to be a strong country in every way, to have its people live in peace and prosperity. As a result, our ancient brotherhood and friendship law with the Egyptian people and their state is strong enough to overcome differences between us. By taking advantage of these strong bonds, we can contribute to Egypt's return to democracy and normalisation, bringing relations between our countries to a higher level. As part of my contacts in New York, I had the opportunity to meet with President Ruhani, who started a new era in Iran. We have come to an understanding of improving our bilateral relations with our key neighbour, Iran, and strengthening our co-operation in various regional issues, particularly the solution to the Syrian crisis. I also hope that the first direct contact between Iran and the United States will contribute to the peace of the region. Our relations with another neighbor, Iraq, of course, are very important. For the past ten years, we have always defended the territorial integrity and political unity of Iraq. We made every effort to contribute to political stability and the country's reconstruction. We are deeply sorry for the ten - year cycle of violence in Iraq. We have been particularly concerned about the growing terrorist attacks on every region in Iraq and our Turkmen brothers. Iraq is already one of the most important commercial and economic partners in our country. I also believe that the sensitivity of our recent political relations will be overcome as soon as possible. When the Iraqi-Turkey relations with enormous co-operation potential are fully assessed, it will not only contribute to the common well-being of our peoples, but to the peace and stability of the entire region. Dear lawmakers, one of the regional processes we've developed in recent years is the strategic dialogue mechanism with members of the Gulf Council for Co-operation. Our relations with the Gulf countries, which have gained a great deal of momentum on the basis of mutual respect and trust, have recently begun to bear fruit in all areas. Many major trade, economic and military agreements have been signed with these countries. In addition, KİK countries and Turkey have taken similar stances and joint initiatives in many regional issues. In some cases, even though we have conjunctural differences with the Gulf countries, we desire that our mutual gains be maintained and our relations continue to grow stronger. Dear MPs, it is not possible for the region and the world to find peace until the Arab-Israeli conflict, the main problem of the Middle East, is resolved. With that understanding, we want the recent negotiations to end with the establishment of an independent and viable Palestinian state, whose capital is East Jerusalem, based on the borders of 1967, which all Palestinians can accept, and with lasting peace. However, while negotiations continue, we find the attitude of Israel, which allows it to build new settlements on occupied Palestinian territory, particularly in East Jerusalem, very dangerous and incompatible with the process. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in all my speeches from the council bench, I have touched on the importance of our relations with European countries and our allies. I have stated that these relationships are not only a choice of foreign policy or security alliances, but also a strategic orientation shaped in light of our nation's historical experience. Today, however you look at the criteria, these countries still form the major center of our economic, political, military, and human relations. Of course, the most fundamental pillar of these relations is our relations with the European Union, where we continue accession talks. In light of the current global and regional conjunctural conjunctive, a Turkey that can keep one foot firmly in the EU can carry out its major goals for itself and, together with the European Union, provide much more effective support for its region, the neighbouring peoples. You all know the European Union process plays a role in improving our country's standards in many areas. On the other hand, the crisis in the eurozone revealed the need for the European Union to be more flexible. We need to follow this reconstruction process carefully, not five years ago, but five years later in the European Union, to determine our strategies. In the restructuring European Union, we must direct our own policies today to strengthen Turkey's place. Our consultations on regional issues are as important as our relations with the United States in the bilateral framework in political, military economic and scientific fields. Meanwhile, our relations with NATO allies on the basis of common values remain in the spirit of solidarity today. In this regard, I would like to thank our allies, the United States, Germany and the Dutch governments of the United States, on the behalf of the Turkish people, who have demonstrated solidarity with Turkey in contributing to our air defence system due to the crisis in Syria. Dear lawmakers, the Cyprus issue, which has been a conflict for nearly 50 years, must now be resolved. The parameters of the solution are fundamentally obvious. It is imperative that direct negotiations between the two communities be conducted so that a comprehensive solution can be reached without delay on this basis. However, it is consistent with the experience that no results have been taken from open-ended negotiation processes. The process to begin is essentially a test of intimacy for everyone. Turkey, as always, will support any diplomatic process towards the establishment of a fair and lasting peace on the island, and will keep the sister's solidarity with the Turkish Cypriot people at the highest. During my time as president, one of the areas I care about most has been relations with the sister Turkish republics. The most important achievement of this process, no doubt, is the establishment of the Turkish Council. The 19 visits I've made to the Turkish republics over the past six years have been an indication that our relations have gained physical volume and depth. We must bring these relationships to future generations in a strong way. I am delighted that our multi-dimensional and comprehensive relations with our neighbor, the Russian Federation, have progressed day by day. It is also satisfying that this close cooperation is continued in regional and global issues. The active efforts of Turkish foreign policy over the past 11 years have transformed our country into a powerful country of global and regional links. And I believe that as an active member of the G-20, we need to further boost our relations with the world's rising economies, China, India, Brazil and Indonesia. Likewise, our policy of opening up to Africa, Latin America and Pacific countries has been of great benefit to us in recent years. Finally, I'd like to point out that dramatic developments in the world and in our region have made our country's need for comprehensive defence reform even more evident. I believe that the comprehensive work that began in the course of my instructions is essential. Mr. President, the effects of the economic crisis that began in the United States of America in 2008 have not yet been fully recovered from the effects of the economic crisis that had recently influenced Europe, then the entire world. Signals from the developed market economies, particularly the United States, to change their monetary enlargement policies during the crisis, have caused a fluctuation in the currency and interest indicators of rising economies, including our country. These conditions have also caused a fluctuation in the currency and interest rates in Turkey, but these actions are not unique to our country, but are parallel to other emerging markets. Basically, Turkey's macroeconomic foundations are extremely strong. As a result of successful economic policies and financial discipline, inflation and interest rates have been reduced to single digits. Our public debt stock and budget deficits have also been successful in monitoring below the Maastricht Criters. In 2001, the GDP rate for interest spending, which was about 18 per cent, was 3.5 per cent in 2012. This allowed the country's resources to be transferred to physical investments and the real economy. Credit rating agencies have also seen this positive table and have recently upgraded our country's rating to an investment-able country level. As a matter of fact, the latest data on growth performances shows that the Turkish economy continues to rise on strong macroeconomic foundations. Mr. President, in the coming period, we will witness a major change in monetary enlargement policies in developed countries after the 2008 crisis. The global economic conjunctive would make it difficult for them to access the resources needed to finance the growth of lower countries like us. In terms of the Turkish economy, it is clear that this new era will have significant effects. It is essentially a priority for us to address the problem of low domestic savings that is now chronicizing in our country. Our domestic savings rate in the 1990s, around 23 per cent, began to decline in later years, and in recent years, despite all measures, it could only be raised to 15 per cent. The low savings rate is one of the most important obstacles to our capture of a sustainable growth performance. So it's imperative that we increase the domestic savings rate in the financing of growth, while we increase direct foreign investments and total efficiency of factors on the other hand. Structural reforms in this direction are vital, as I've always noticed, not to let our country fall into the middle-income trap. The first requirement for increasing efficiency under global economic competition today is to improve the quality of education. According to OECD data, Turkey's performance in basic science education is unfortunately recent. In a time when our government allocates the highest share of education from the budget, when it makes the biggest investments, it points to that there is still a distance in our educational system. During my visits to Anatolia, I studied at many universities. The universities are actually being provided with huge public resources, which are equipped with high standard physical and technological infrastructure. Therefore, it is our right as a society to expect our universities to improve their performances in education and scientific research in the same way. The growth of a generation with the equipment required by the age of knowledge, high self-esteem, research, analytical thinking, will be the engine of our economic and human development in the future. Another key requirement for increasing efficiency and maintaining competitive superiority is to prioritize the policies of science, technology and innovation. I pointed out that these policies are now a matter of becca. Thus, it is of great importance that support for research, development and innovation has continued to increase in recent years. The transformation of such activities by the private sector into commercial products and success should also be the fundamental dynamic of our new growth policy. Dear lawmakers have worked very hard to build a market economy that has been operating our country in the past 12 years. Many economic and legal fundamental reforms have been implemented in order to achieve this. Political stability in our country has been consolidated to significant economic achievements that offer continuity. Thanks to reforms, the perception that we are a friendly economy to all entrepreneurs has settled around the world. As a country, we bought its fruit directly through foreign capital investments and a cheaply-cost fund entry. And in the coming period, we must not allow these gains to wear out and our keen perception of the world's markets. We must always preserve both the foreign investor and the environment that will make the entrepreneur in our own country feel comfortable and secure. On the other hand, economic growth of a country cannot be a guarantee of social peace and quiet on its own. Therefore, it is important that the growth of prosperity produced by economic growth be distributed fairly. In this context, the continuation of social policies that correct revenue distribution in our country is of great benefit. In this framework, it is imperative that urban transformation projects, one of the most important tools, be implemented by consideration of environmental, urban aesthetics and social attribute criteria. Finally, providing active participation in all areas of our society, especially politics and the economy, will be the key to our human development. The solution to problems in this regard should be one of our country's priorities. Mr. President, we're going to celebrate the 90th anniversary of our republic on October 29th this year. With all our people, I am proud of what our republic has achieved during this time. Today, with his economy, his democracy, and his army, as a strong country, we have a place of respect all over the world. And I have no doubt that by building bigger ones on our achievements so far, we will continue our journey with determination. This is my opening-of-the-last-life speech during my time in office. As a Turkish citizen who was born on the 27th anniversary of the Republic and took advantage of the equality of opportunity, one of its most important virtues, I tried to carry out the presidential mission that our nation has blessed me with. In the six years we've left, I've tried to tell, remind, and do what I think is right. My guide became our Constitution, my beliefs, and my conscience. All my life, I have never left the service of our great nation, knowing that I have served the public service of Hakkk. And from now on, I will continue to serve our nation with that understanding and understanding. As I end my words, I call upon all members of the Grand Assembly, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has been sent to eternity, and to remember all our martyrs once again, and to bless our nation for the new year of life. I wish you all the best. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-01sit01spe0003par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-10-01sit02spe0003par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 1st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to our agenda, Mr. Mehmet Haberal of Zonguldak will now take the oath. I wish him well. If he's here, I call him to the stand. [[There are no CHP lines, tomorrow.]] Mr. Haberal is gone. Since he's not in the General Assembly, he'll take an oath on the next merger. The advisory board has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed, and I'm going to vote for you. Here you go. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Tuesday (January 01/10/2013). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. From Turkey's Grand National Assembly commissions; from 13 members of the Council of State and Budget Commission, from 40 members under the Constitutional Court of the 162th Amendment clause of the Constitution; from 35 members, from 25 members of the European Union's Compliance Commission, and from 26 other commissions in the context of the distribution of commissions to political party groups, according to Article 3346 of the Commission of Public Economic Oppositions. On Tuesday (October 1st 2013) during the first merger of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's new year of legislation, there were no other issues discussed after the completion of their talks. It's recommended. COMMISSION PRODUCTION OF COMMITMENTS TO BLACK PARTY GROUPS AND DETECTIVES Commissions For Political Party Groups and Independents AK PARTY CHP MHP BDP Independent Constitutional Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Justice Commission 26 16 6 3 1 National Defence Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Internal Affairs Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Foreign Affairs Commission 26 16 6 3 1 National Education, Culture, Youth And Sports Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Publicity, Development, Transport And the Tourism Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Environmental Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Agriculture, Forest and Villages Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course, Sources, Information and Technology Commission 26 16 6 3 1 Proclamation Commission 13 8 3 1 1 Plan and Budget Commission 40 25 9 4 2 0 Commission 35 21 9 3 2 0 Commission 26 16 6 3 10 Commission 25156310 Commission 26 16 6 3 10 I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have nothing more to discuss on the agenda. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (October 2nd, 2013) at 15 p.m. to discuss other tasks from commissions with verbal question motions, draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
