tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Silver House MP Kemalettin Aydın, who wants to speak about the transport investments of the province of Silver House. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have taken an off-the-book commitment to the Silver House's transportation investments, and I salute you all. First of all, in the final championship match against Yozgat, who was the champion of a top set last week, I congratulate you from the heart of Silverhallpork, where we played horon together in Yozgat, and took the horse, and I thank you to all who have done the work. As for the transportation investments of the Silver House, which we call the Silver House, it's real. Projects are found in a Silver House. In particular, the city, which has been neglected for many years and has been a double mile by 2002, will have reached 150km double routes with projects which have been offered 27km today and are being made, so that the Silverhouse will be connected to Tripoli, the neighbouring provinces of the province, Erzincan, and Bayburt. In addition, by 2002, 245 million spent in ten years, only last year in the Silver House, 192 million Turkish liras were spent on land roads. In double roads, especially the Köstere-Gazishane, or Zigana Mountain-Gıshan, 26km, 19km between the Silver Hall and the Kale-Bayburt, 16km, Pirahmet-Kelkit 26km, Kelkit-Erzincan 60km, there are no double routes that are currently tendered and are not available in city connections. The road to Kelkit-Shiran, which has been a problem for many years, has been completed for 30km, the road to Shiran-Camolu has been completed for 27km, the road to Twosu-Shirana -- which has been tendered in 1997 -- has been made for nearly sixteen years, and Mount Tersun will be paved this year by Allah's permission. The Ways of Desires - Rain and Köse-Bayburt are among the ways that continue. Again, the city is the largest tender in the history of the Silver House, which has no circumference and is the largest tender in the history of the Republic of Silverhall, at the price of a tender of about 500 trillion, at the price of today's tender, when it is completed with six kilometers of tunnel and a mile of viaduct. Again, in the 1980s, the 1,820-metre Zigana Tunnel was completed in 17 years, with four contractors bankrupted in the process, but now, on double roads, 6km tunnels open in six or seven months on the freeway. The Zigana Mountain Tunnel is completed at 13km, 1,300 raki, and the double tunnel project is completed and will be tendered by Allah's permission by the end of the year. The Silver House isn't just on land roads, of course... The dream of Abdulhamit, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and Erzincan-Güsmüshane railway, has been tendered and the project is completed. The 220km project will reach the Black Sea coast road after Kelkit, the Silver House, and Torul, and hopefully will be tendered and presented to our people in the vision of 2023. From the airport's point of view, Salyaz Airport, which was built in 1998, will also benefit from airports that have been put into the study, which have become the way of the people. 25 airports were used before our government's time, and 49 airports were reached today, and the 50th airport, with Allah's permission, will be fulfilled by the efforts of our government as the Silver House Salyaz. Of course, the village routes were spent 120 million and 7 million on the East Black Sea Tourism Master Plan. On the other hand, where I went, the villagers asked me for schools and roads. He remembered what he said. In this direction, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that transportation, energy and communication are the basic infrastructure of development, the road is civilization. Here we are, sharing our happiness with the government in a process by which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was drawn that day, which Recep Tayyip Erdogan carried out his civilization into the Silver House, and inviting all the people and our friends in our Assembly to the Ataturk Cultural Center, which will be opened tomorrow. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bingl MP İdris Baluken, who asked for a comment on the destructions created by thermal power plants. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0004par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. I'm going to inform the General Assembly a little bit about the harmful effects of thermal power plants, and I'm going to tell them what we think of the thermal power plants that are supposed to be built in my constituency district of Bingol. Dear lawmakers, as we know, thermal plants are structures that generate energy, produce electricity through burning fossil fuels such as coal, fuel and gas. Of course, they express how innocent they are every time the ruling party MPs come here, but this is where we express how harmful they are to the environment, to nature, to human health. Through these fossil fuels burned to power with thermal plants, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxide, mercury, heavy metals, arsenic, chromium, cobalt, lead, zinc, barium, thallium, and so on are released into the atmosphere and nature of many harmful materials such as radioactive particles. In many places where these thermal plants are built, often the harmful effects of acid rain are affected by nature and human health, in order to completely destroy vegetation. In particular, the most harmful effects of these thermal plants are sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. Where there are thermal plants, with the exposure of this vegetation, there's a risk of the total destruction of all the plants there with acute exposure, and chronic exposure to the vast destruction of vegetation over time. It is called energy from 30 per cent to 40 per cent of energy produced by thermal plants, and many of these thermal plants are being built on the banks of a stream or by the river because they need cooling water. Now, valuable lawmakers, all of the waste from the thermal plants using this cooling water is being transferred back to this stream, to the river or to the sea, and the problem begins right here. Now, in particular, research has shown that both the chemicals that come out of this chimney and the water-inflicted waste in the thermal plants have significantly increased cancer diseases. Again, birth anomalies are a known fact that there are many health problems associated with exposure to radioactive substances, such as the birth of children, babies with mental retardation, early births that should have occurred in time, early births or miscarriages, and the resurrection of children with some genetic anomalies. In fact, when we look at it today, we can see around the world that renewable energy sources, wind, geothermal, and solar energy have been prioritized, and that thermal plants and nuclear plants are now virtually excluded and banned worldwide. Look, so far, in our country, our people have shown a clear attitude towards these processes when the process of building thermal power plants has been carried out from Mardin to Syria. So, in İzmir, in Manisa, in Siirt, in Mardin, our people have made it clear that they do not want these thermal plants. Now, the people of Bingol face the same risk. Plans and projects related to the construction of thermal power plants in our Sandzak and Karliova districts are being implemented. Both our Sandzak people and our people of Karliova have repeatedly shouted to the Bingol press that they would never allow such projects. Because it is clear that the people of Bingol will not tolerate projects that kill their own children, bring cancer in their own lives, destroy the environment they live in, completely ravage nature. Until today, because of the war, forests have been burned in that area, villages have been evacuated, villages have been burned, people have been victims of unsolved murders, they've been crippled, we'll never allow a plan, a project to plunder life and human life with thermal plants during the time we've now discussed a new process. I would like to invite the AK PARTY Group to review plans for these thermal power plants planned at the Sandzak and Karliova (KKPARTI) in Bingol. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a whole, we stress that it is an unacceptable policy to be brought before our people as a source of energy in our country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Islamic Party) who asked about the NSU case and the problems of our citizens living in Germany. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0006par0050	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the NSU case against our citizens in Germany and the problems of our citizens in Germany. Before that, I have an urgent matter to discuss first. Due to the heavy rains in Şanlıurfa (Ghanlıurfa) on 15 May), there has been major damage to the villages and districts in the central and local region.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0007par0053	In Antwerp, in Antwerp...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0006par0054	Our farming citizens have been seriously damaged. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the damage to the government in Şanlıurfa is to be done immediately, and that the damage to our citizens, our farmers, and to be paid the unpaid premiums of our farmers from earlier years. Dear MPs, on May 6, 2013, we went to Munich, Germany, to watch the NSU case as the Human Rights Review Commission for the Turkish Parliament. However, we need to sort out what we saw in the NSU case: there were no 3m iron barriers, as in Turkey; there were plastic, Lego types, and half-meter barriers. There was no pepper spray, no baton. In turn, after a long wait, we were able to enter the trial. Of course, in that long-term waiting... we always say that as the state of the Republic of Turkey, we really have a lot of dignity out there. Sir, we are a great state. Unfortunately, when they come to our country, we lay red carpets in front of them, and they come in very comfortable; and there, without any privileges, we were in line with the MPs at seven o'clock, and we were only able to get into the courtroom at about half past nine. Of course, in this NSU case, there has been a series of systematic, programmed murders against Turkish citizens in Germany since 2000. In different cities of Germany, different times and with the same gun, silenced weapons, our Turkish citizens were shot in the back of the neck. From 2000 to today, Germany has been called this turntable murder. In fact, it's impossible for such killings to happen if there are no higher officials in Germany, a focal point to the state. Why are we saying this? Because there's a decision issued by the German Constitution Protection Board, there's a confidentiality clause. What's that? At the time, indeed, there were major difficulties in the sense that the law enforcement officers following this organization -- some of the documents had been removed from office at that time -- some of them had resigned, some of them had resigned. In this sense, we went to watch the trial, and we had neither the German indictment nor the Turkish indictment, and we haven't even been able to get it, and we're still trying to get it on our own. This shouldn't be a tourist trip, just by going there, we don't satisfy the victims of our citizens. My request from the government, the State Department, is that we must reach this indictment as soon as possible and translate it into Turkish and offer this assistance and contribution to our citizens. One of the biggest problems of our Turkish citizens living in Germany is dual citizenship. Dear lawmakers, I invite the State Department to serve in this matter. What is it? Turkish citizens living in Germany are not granted double citizenship, they are known to 166 countries but are not recognised to the state of the Republic of Turkey. There is a requirement in the 30th article of the Finnish Immigration Act for the common-law event of the Republic of Turkey. This requirement is known only to Turkish citizens, but the third article of the German Constitution is the principle of equality. It says, "The 6th article of the German Constitution is the protection of the family." At the same time, all people benefit from Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 8 of Article 8. However, our citizens in Germany, these methods... have so far been deprived of legal support, assistance, that the State Department has not stepped in on this issue, and our citizens are victims. First of all, the legal commissions established within the State Department have been issued in Germany to benefit our citizens from the dual citizenship of the German Constitution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...of the 6th Amendment, the European Convention on Human Rights, the 7th, 8, 14th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, and to address the loss of our citizens, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to go into the system and give our deputies a minute of my word. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. The court palace, which has been mentioned for years as the largest settlement in Thrace, continues to be a great ordeal for our citizens living in Çorou district, which has been said to be a problem but cannot be resolved. The location of the building has been determined, and the problems caused by changing it at full tender stage have grown. According to 2012 figures, there are 12,000 case files per year, 32,000 execution cases, court services in Çoran district are being tried in four separate buildings, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, court staff and citizens are victims. I wish the AKP would keep its promises in Thrace, Çoran district, and the foundation of the courthouse would be laid down and put to work as soon as possible.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0008par0068	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0010par0071	Mr. President, I'd like to present the attention of the High Council. Maybe there's a new example in Turkey, but I don't know if there is one in the world. We have a team called 44 Malatyaspor, in yellow red. They won this year's championship by working, playing, playing, playing, with 70 points, but they're not named champions. Another team with the same score, they named Payas Cityport as the leader. It has no place in law, nor in sports. Unfortunately, 44 Malatyaspor is being severely wronged, and although it has 70 points and averages high, it is not declared champion. The Football Federation's Law Board is not trying very hard. I wanted to bring this to your attention. Forty-four Malatyaspor has 70 points, 56 averages; Payas Municipality has 70 points, 52 averages. We're leaders, we're champions, but we're not entitled. I condemn those who don't do us justice here on behalf of the Malatians.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0008par0072	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0011par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Kahramanmarash Afşin is a county that is prominent in its historical and tourist properties. Especially the presence of the People of the Right Hand has brought great value to our town. One of the problems of our Afşin County is that our young people who have reached the 3,000 have gone to other cities, other cities for their SDM tests and exams. I'm calling the authorities from here, and I demand that the SNSM exams be dealt with immediately at the point of the Afshin. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the most important livelihoods in the East Black Sea region is tea farming. In recent years, as a result of the quota, the private sector has taken advantage of the situation and has received the remaining tea from the citizen for half the price. There's a big scam going on here. The people of the region are in revolt. The citizen has to give the tea to the factory before it burns, before it breaks. Since the tea will burn and be broken as a result of it being in your hands, the citizen will have to take the tea out of his hand in the shortest possible way. However, the quotas applied by CHAIKUR are leaving tea in the hands of a citizen. The private sector, which has the opportunity, receives half of the government's base price of tea left by the citizen. It's not moral. The quota made by the government gives the private sector an opportunity. In particular, yesterday, trucks from Rize (Rize) to Arhavi district of Artvin (Arhavi) bought the remaining teas from the citizen for half price. The teamaker, who was forced to remove the remaining tea because of the quota application of TECHUR, thinks it's a countermeasure, a consulting practice. This is not only in Arhavi, it is in Hopa, it is in Kemalpaşa, it is in Debanka, it is in Ardeşen, it is in Ardeşen, it is in Çayeli, it is in Rize, it is in Ooft, it is in every village.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on Sunday, on the day of the first spark of our struggle for independence, we tried to celebrate the 94th of our May 19 Ataturk Memorial and Youth and Sports Day. Despite all obstacles to the AKP's power, our citizens have enjoyed the holiday in all the provinces and provinces of our country. In the 40s, we also celebrated our festival with our people. By the way, our party organisations put a wreath on the Ataturk monuments that day, but I'm learning today -- after the wreath that our organisation has placed in our Visa district -- that I'm learning -- that its report here -- that, again, on 23 April, the district president has fined us 182 euros in administrative fines, which has affected public safety, public order and general health. Of course, I'm thinking that, you know, when Ataturk came to Samsun, he issued a death sentence on the government of Istanbul. I'm going to tell these nosy ladies from here that they can get a ticket. We'll pay our fines, but on every national holiday, we'll put our wreath on our monument to the Ataturk monument. I'd like to announce that one more time from here.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of National Education opened a course on Technology Use in Education under the FATHIH Project. It has been announced that those who have completed a hundred-hour course to present teachers of the ministry have been assigned as IT tech guidance counselors. However, there are thousands of young people from four years of IT technology at universities who have graduated from school for 3,024 hours over the course of four years and are waiting for an appointment. The ministry has put these young people in a very wrong way, where they will appoint them for these courses. The Ministry of National Education is openly unfair to highly educated, up-to-date IT teachers. The appointment of graduates of IT technology must be done immediately, and they must attend these classes. Information technology teachers should be assigned to I.T. classes. The ministry must waive the appointment of a teacher through the course. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Many schools, such as Nurettin Teksan, Mustafa Aykın, Faik Reşit Unat elementary schools in Kadıköy districts, have been gradually changed in the 2013-2014 school year and have closed their separate chapters. The State National Education Directorate's decision to transform for some schools has been learned by parents in their applications. All parents are already in a state of anxiety. As gradeless change will cause students to become victims, the child's direction to other schools will cause financial damage to the parents, especially in the matters of transportation and residence. In addition, plans suspended in the neighborhoods of Yenisahra and Barbaros in Ataşehir district could not solve the problems of the people. The zoning plans for Mustafa Kemal and Loved Veysel sites are still unaccounted for. Our citizens are looking forward to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0021par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. These days, there are games about mera. The right of use of ceremonies is being done to be given to supporters by tenders, not by peasants in their rights. For example, Erzurum, the latest example of this behavior in our districts of Bursa Yenişehir is that, again, there are 900 acres in the districts of Gündoğan and Tabakhane, of Newşehir cattle manufacturers who do not want to be given to others by tender. I demand that this tender, which Yusuf Kayışoglu, the columnist of the incident newspaper, has been announced with the title of the Kira mera riot, be cancelled tomorrow and be given the right to use it to the Newşehir animal manufacturers. Let these games end now, or the milk that was distributed in the gardens yesterday, unfortunately, our friends won't be able to find it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Your Highness...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. A double road construction between Tekirdağ Çerkeköy and Saray came up in 2009. The tender was retributed on March 16, 2012, as the contractor did not finish the job on time. The second road was built in July of last year, where work began in the 7km section, but there was serious damage to the road due to the flood, and repairs were done again. The inefficiency of the road victimises both our citizens from Circeçeköy and Saray. Ten people died as a result of frequent accidents. The road is threatened with a lack of completion due to the problems of publicisation and the lack of justice of rights owners. The slowdown of studies brings to mind claims that the road cannot be completed due to lack of funds. We expect this problem to be resolved as soon as possible so that there will be no more casualties, Tekirdağ people. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0024par0120	Thank you, Your Highness. Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0025par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the provinces where agriculture is important, such as Afyon, Kütahya, Uğur, Eskişehir, and in the years before that, all the villagers, the ones who had watered the water wells, all of the cooperatives, were employed because of the electricity debt. Now the power distribution company has cut power to these water wells using a phrase that it sends. It is possible for them to pay three-quarters of their debt to perform, as well as to pay off the remaining part of the debt. Other than that, even if they paid the debt, they were told that the wells would be powered if they were to guarantee as much as these debts. Last year, the potato maker, beets maker, cucumber maker, vegetable manufacturer, they couldn't pay off their debts because they had already lost money. Now, the one who couldn't pay off last year, I'm not watering...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0024par0126	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, congratulated and congratulated on the success of Turkey's football leagues, as well as on the success of its success this year. As it is known, today is the final match of the Agriculture Turkey Cup in Ankara. In this match between Fenerbahçe and Tripolispor, Tripolispor is the host of the event. But unfortunately, some of our friends have expressed that there is no room for their application as MPs and that the seats are full, that there is even trouble finding seats for lawmakers, and we have had a chance to find a place with request, gratitude, and pressure. However, when we investigate, I would like to say once again that tickets, invitations were given to all concerned, and therefore many of our fellow lawmakers were unable to find invitations, I would like to invite everyone and the chairman of the House. I also wish that this evening's match would be a friendly one, and in the end, the Tripolispor would win, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0027par0135	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0028par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. There are many farmers who have been hurt recently by a hail hit in many parts of the country. In many parts of Tucson, it also rained hail. I'd like to point that out. Yesterday, we went to Silivri, together with our Burdur MP Ramadan Ozkan. We saw two of our fellow MPs there. Now, our fellow lawmakers have done their defenses, and there are indictments, and they are accused of using algebra and violence to commit a coup. Some special-duty courts have become counter-revolutionary courts. I'd like to call on the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. These fellow lawmakers have been arrested unfairly for a long time. Their place of office is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; like any honorable MP, our friends have been chosen to serve the nation here. The Speaker isn't doing his duty, he's neglecting it. I would like to call on the Speaker of the House to come here and take an oath and begin his post immediately, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0029par0141	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0030par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. The hospital at Mugla Sıtký Koçman University was to be founded this year. But according to media reports, there are rumors that 80 million liras went to Van, the press and the President have a statement. There is a rumor about this money that Mugla had a debt to the Turkish people regarding the investment money. We'd like to find out something about this money, about investment, about laying groundwork. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0031par0147	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0032par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. There are huge and heavy climate changes in our country due to global warming. As a result, natural disasters in our country, such as floods, floods, landslides, tornados, lightning strikes, unfortunately, have been huge. Farmers and people suffer great damage from these natural disasters. The government must help all people, especially the damaged farmers. Because of the flood and hail disaster of some farmers, their products have been completely destroyed, and in some places there is 100% damage. In the village of Kale in Erbaa, the villages of Kazova are also largely affected by disasters in the village of Kale, in the province of Tokat. The government says that these farmers must be protected without any insurance-free distinction, and that the public needs a disaster fund to help their products and their way, and that some areas should be put into disaster decrees, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0031par0152	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0033par0155	Mr. President, after the discovery of uniforms claimed by the Turkish army on the Free Syrian Army, a congressman of ours issued a motion for questions. Today, Turkish Armed Forces officials and the Ministry of National Defence have accused this MP of provocation by issuing this question motion. The government, one of the bloodiest actors in the civil war in twenty-six months, gave the Free Syrian Army logistical materials, including bombs, sarin gas, all the weapons, building private hospitals for them, bringing them to Turkey, causing disasters like Reyhanlı, and for some reason, saying that it had suffered from the clothes given to that army. May I present to the attention of this double standard, this immoral sense of morality, the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0034par0159	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th National Assembly of Turkey, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, should be investigated for the reasons for its uncontrollably increasing impacts on the human body. [[Slap]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Elizipt]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 6) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sakarya]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Yozgat]] 12) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Kastamon]] [[Paddles]] [[Scholarship]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Samsun]] [[Mughle]] In recent years, while GSM operators have increased, experts have voiced negative effects on human health at every turn, cell towers have begun to mingle with people's living spaces. Buildings that deal with the GSM company for revenue have even begun to be seen. It hides under the stairs so that no cell towers can be seen. Pregnant women's health is seriously affected by the position of cell towers. The GSM base station is a serious health problem for elementary school students in nearby schools, students in mentally disabled schools. There's a lot of judgment about how cell towers hurt people. For example, Ankara Asliye 9. The Court of Law has decided that the base station is harmful, and the Supreme Court has decided that it is the fourth. The legal department approved the original number of decisions by 2003/16434, 2004/971. "The decision is that there are not many people who have had serious health concerns for employees in the building, and have been dying from radiation from the station for years, but in the past three or four years, and five people working close to the facility, who are still working in the building, who are still suffering from this disease, some people who are still working in this place, who are psychologically affected by this place, and that will cause anxiety and despair in their psychological nature, and that, in this way, if you think about the health values of life, it should be considered that their work will be negative, and the decision must be concluded that the plaintiff is damaged." "I'm sure of the damage. " Many experts in medicine also agree that cell towers are harmful to human health. There's been a constant debate since the Baz stations were set up. Sources that we've learned so much about the damage to cell towers are informed that because they're transponders around cell stations, static electricity occurs on living things, electromagnetic fields. Due to the fact that this electromagnetic field is so much greater than the electromagnetic field in the human body and in our natural environment, the current biological and physiological compatibility fails. This causes a type of pollution, skin cancer, called electromagnetic pollution. An environmentalist who understands the technique of this job calls it more critical than we know: - Microwaves that can be broadcast by cell towers have two basic effects on tissue: - Microwave heats up tissues. [[Thermal effect]] - Microwave disrupts the chemistry of cells. [[Non-thermal or chemical effect]] - The second effect of microwaves, particularly, is that it's important to human health to disrupt the chemistry of cells. Research has determined that the chemical effects of cells can result in the following consequences: - Large molecules in cells (proteins etc.) Deformity. - Cell membranes sticking together. - Opening holes in the cell membranes. - Ca-ATPAZ and Na-K-ATPAZ enzymes decomposing from the outside of the cell, Caί, Na' and K's escape. - Disruption of nerve membranes, degenerative brain disease, such as REM sleep, lack of sleep, EEG changes, insomnia, anger, amnesia, depression, headaches, dizziness, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis. - Disruptation of cell enzymes. - DNA tampering. The GSM firms, which will build a base station, deal with the owner, pay a lot of high rents. Most of the people living in and around apartments are unaware of these stations. That's why it's also a human duty to warn people. Given all of this, urgent measures must be taken by the government for cell towers that damage the human body. On all these grounds, we have a motion to investigate. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the effects of the privatisations in Kütahya, and the measures to be taken by investigating the socioeconomic structure of the province and the problems caused by its problems, we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104th, 104th and 105th. 7/3/2012 [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Aydın]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] 9) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kastamon]] 11) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Paddles]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] 18) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Slap]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] A large number of state-owned governments established ahead of AKP governments throughout the Republic's history have been sold at almost no cost in the province of Kütahya, as in the last nine years when the AKP alone was in power. Following these sales, many of our people who work at privatised facilities have been victimised, while new rich people close to the AKP have been created, and work peace at workplaces has been broken. One of the provinces where many of our people were victims of privatisations during the AKP period is undoubtedly the province of Kütahya. As soon as the AKP came to power, many of our people were either retired or sent to other public institutions or institutions under the 4/C, which the AKP privatised in 2004, with the Kütahya Sugar Factory (TUGSASŞ), the Nitro factory (TUGSAŞ), and the Ottomangazi Electric Distribution Agency, which was privatised in 2009. Those who stayed at the establishment had to work for very low wages. Finally, it is estimated that the fate of many of our people who worked for Kütahya Magnetic Enterprises, which was privatised in 2011, will not be different from the previous ones. From the dates they were founded, these facilities have contributed to the economies and employment of Kütahia for many years, and have been sold at a very large number of lawmakers in Kütahya at a time when the AKP was in power alone, with the value of real markets well below and almost at scrap prices. With the sale of the remembered facilities, Kütahya's economy and employment began to contract rapidly, and as a result of this narrowing down, most of our young people have had to migrate to other cities in the past decade. In the process of privatisations and after, many allegations of irregularities and corruption continue to occupy the Kütahya agenda. News that the Kütahya Province and its key institutions of the country's economy, Seyitömer and Bronzebilek thermal power plants, along with the talks that Seyitömer Liniyet Enterprises (SLI) and Rabbit's Garp Linet Enterprises (GLI), which provided coal for these plants, have also caused concerns in the public and new debates of energy production facilities under privatisation. The claims that the facilities are being sold to a group of businessmen who are close to power, as mentioned earlier, are at a very low cost, both in these enterprises and in Kütahya, making many of our people nervous. For reasons stated above, a parliamentary investigation into the province of Kütahya is useful to investigate the negative effects of privatisations during the AKP administration during the province's socioeconomic structure and to determine the measures needed to be taken. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, In order to investigate the problems caused by immigration in our migratory provinces and determine the measures to prevent immigration, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of our Constitutional Assembly of Turkey. 7/3/2012 [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] 5) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Aydın]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] 11) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] 18) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Slap]] In addition to the wrong economic and employment policies in our country during the AKP administrations, high rates and amounts of clear migrations have emerged in some of our provinces under the influence of economic crises. Because of the recent growth of unemployment in our provinces, the fact that most young male populations have had to migrate to other cities, especially our major cities, and leave their homes has also upset our citizens living in those cities, especially their families. As a result of massive migration to major industrial cities, especially the Metropolis, the population growth in these cities is the source of many new problems, while Turkey's rural population rate is increasing and the unemployment rate is increasing. According to data published by the Turkish Statistics Agency (TÜİK) at the end of 2011, the total share of the population in our country is 76.8%; the annual population growth rate is 1.36 per cent; the unemployment rate is 49.9%; the unemployment rate is 9.8%; the unemployment rate is 12.4 per cent; and the youth unemployment rate in our 15-24-year-old group is 18.4%. According to TÜİK data, the rate of population growth at the end of 2011 was negative, the population of some of our provinces and populations reduced by another term, respectively; the Tokat (1.4 per cent), Yozgat ( 2,18 per cent), Sivas (2.36 per cent), Manisa (2.86 per cent), Burdur (3.22 per cent), Karabük (3.46 per cent), Amasian (3.50 per cent), Erzincan ( 4,30 per cent), Isufahia ( 4,44 per cent), Isa (9 per cent) and 9 per cent (9 per cent). Almost all of our provinces share a common feature of their economies and employment mainly based on agriculture and animalism. The unemployment rates that TİK has released for our provinces based on data from the same year vary greatly due to the disregard of citizens going to other cities due to immigration. For example, Bilecik, Isparta and Kütahya are listed as the provinces of Isparta and Kütahya, where the highest unemployment rate is 14.7 per cent in 2011 and TR31 (Izmir), which is a major conflict between 14.4 per cent and TRC1 (Gaziantep, Adıyaman, Kilis Provinces), and that the region with the lowest unemployment rate should be investigated by 4.7 per cent and TR33 (Manisa, Afion, Kütahahahya, Kütahahir). The fact that most young populations who migrate to other cities often because of unemployment is not included in unemployment data does not reflect the fact that they are not included in the immigration province and that the city's unemployment rate is low. Meanwhile, there are no new jobs being created in migratory cities due to the lack of public or private sector investments. Supporting the provinces in this situation with a special incentive policy is seen as an important way to stop the migration. However, it is important to encourage investments in these areas by determining significant resource potentials to take advantage of each province, according to its neighbours and other provinces. In the cities that are migrating in determining the government's incentive policies, job-building work should be based on supporting intensive sectors. These major contradictions require a comprehensive workup to determine the measures for the feeding of the young population, especially in the city where the young population is born, by investigating important problems that trigger migration in the immigrant provinces in our country. For the specified reasons, it is beneficial to open a parliamentary investigation into this matter. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Advice 22/5/2013 (now) Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The proposals for the launch of a parliamentary inquiry on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (10/491) during the 459th time of the General Assembly's Review and Assembly Research (10/491) have been proposed to co-operate in the General Assembly's Wednesday (22/5/2013) jointly for the investigation of unsolved murders from 1990 to today and for the detection of problems and for the resolution of solutions. In his favor, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0035par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you know, from May 17th to May 31st, the week of the fight against casualties in custody. The systematic implementation of this painful country's reality, which will cover historical times of impact and before, coincides with the years when the Kurdish freedom movement gained momentum. In these years, thousands of our citizens were lost in custody, and thousands of tearful families and justice seekers remained. Saturday's Mothers left their 425th sit-in at the end of this week with a sign of the perpetrators, certain, where are the missing? The government and the government, responsible for thousands of the most violent crimes against humanity, still insist on continuing its indifference and irresponsibility. The data and evidence available in this matter are blacked out by state institutions itself. The courts are being used as an executive agency serving political decisions, and unlawful decisions and unsolved cases are deliberately tried to be timed out. A data system, where data can be created in how many people have been missing for how long, unfortunately, has not been created for the government's lack of initiative, but has been prevented. Documents that will shed light on forced losses are kept in the public archives as state secrets, and crimes committed are tried to cover up. However, it is already clear to everyone that it is impossible to lose so widely and so severely without state authority and to commit unsolved murders. A number of criminal organizations, such as JITEM, countererilla, rangers, Hezbollah, who operate with state support, have personally organized these murders. Anyone who lived in Kurdish geography, including myself, who was not the victim of recent history, is a witness. But we are about to witness another historical era. At least that's what we believe, and that's what we're fighting for. And we find this process vital because we value the human life, we don't want anyone to die, we don't want anyone to lose their lambs again at river length. We value our natural and cultural assets, we don't want them destroyed. In a strong country, we want everyone to live in prosperity, but more importantly, we want people to live in a way that is worthy of human dignity with all their rights to exist. So we call it a solution, a real solution to an honorable peace. Therefore, the solution is at the very beginning of our calls to the government, which declares its intent, to face the past and first of all, to ensure the establishment of justice. Because there's no other medicine than justice for the suffering of these people who have suffered up to their knees. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there is no future of an unquestioned, untried history. The plague of our losses, this serious crime of humanity, is the greatest burden on both us and the government. Therefore, the government must immediately be involved in the search for truth and justice carried only on the back of its mother and various NGOs on Saturday. Unless the perpetrators of these murders are tried, there are no casualties, even a thousand years later, the government will continue to be in charge of the investigation. The state should not be in debt to its citizen. Whoever gets justice has to hand it over to the government. It must be forgotten that loss is not only the history of their relatives, but the history of what this whole country is capable of, what the state is capable of and what it is doing. The private war organizations of the state that operates like a criminal machine and the leading actors of these organizations have not evaporated, they are among us, and they are living their lives within very special possibilities, with the rewards the state has given them. They will not be questioned, nor will they be questioned. For the sake of display, the prison has been turned into a glass house for a short period of time. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as in the fields, I'd like to say with an open heart that our desire is never a desire for revenge. All we want is justice. More than a thousand missing persons, almost 20,000 unsolved murders. Who, by what right, would ask the people of all the other countries where the regimes of Nazi Germany, Latin America, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Iraq and massacres were implemented to forget this violence? So who, with 300 of us, can expect us to ignore the thousands of losses found in these graves, the thousands of relatives slaughtered in the unknown? Societal memory neither forgets nor forgives this violence. For generations, anger never lets the government off the hook. A state that has not paid for its own sins will never go away from the prospect of implementing its atrocities over and over again. Now, the Roboski massacre is a painful repeat of this situation. Here's a civilian massacre, 34 young dead bodies standing in the middle, but as usual, they have no perpetrators or judges. Its name is nothing more than 34 unsolved murders at a time. Therefore, no government spokesman, including the Prime Minister, should stand up and say that these massacres were not committed in our time. With this government's hands, this kind of massacre has been written a whole history. A new historical era is a political will that condemns these massacres as acts of shame of the past. It is only possible to face it with the judgment of these dark processes. Without facing the past, there is no real peace or brotherhood-based life for this country without truth being revealed and justice being served. A brotherly life can't be built until it's legalized. That's why we expect the government to respond quickly to the voice of thousands of citizens who have lost their relatives in an unsolved murder and forced-to-destroy operations. Our clear demands from the government are: The truth commission must be established at once. International law must be observed. Forensics and laws must be changed. In order for the truth to be revealed and justice to be served, changes must be made in the Penal Code of Justice to ensure that the families of the victims participate in the cases. Mr. President, I'd like to make a final statement that historical events that have had a profound impact on society's lives have a place in memory and are not forgotten. Thus, such historical events cannot be described as unwanted accidents and taken to the dusty shelves of history. The government's method of eliminating or forgetting is only a way to get us out of a real settlement environment and into the facility of the law order. I hope that the government will take the necessary steps quickly, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0036par0374	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Against Bart's MP Yilmaz Bronze. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0037par0378	Mr. President, I've been promised against the BDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Under the BDP group proposal, it is required to establish a research commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and 105 of Turkey's Council of Turkey to investigate murders which have been going on until 1990 and are known publicly as unsolved murders. In our country, especially from the early 1990s to the early 2000s, the years of unsolved killings and terrorism have reached the top. Especially when we look at our recent history, 1993 is a year of unsolved murders. When we look at the unsolved murders that took place in 1993, in terms of the chronological order, we see a truly remarkable picture: journalist Uğur Mumcu, who was also the wife of our Deputy Speaker of Parliament, was killed as a result of the bombing on January 24, 1993. On 17 February 1993, General General Eşref Bitlis, who was known to be against JİTEM, was killed. On 17 April 1993, our late President, Mr. Turgut Özal, who was determined to solve the PKK problem both during the prime minister's term and during the presidency, died in a suspicious death. Again, on 25 May 1993, 33 of us who traveled unarmed and civilian on the Malatya-Bingöl road were killed. On 2 July 1993, the Sivas Madimak Hotel was set on fire and 37 people died. On July 5, 1993, 33 of our innocent citizens, women and elderly, were massacred in the Prime Minister's office. On August 4, 1993, a bus was scanned and 15 people were killed in Bitlis Mutki. DeP MP Mehmet Sincar was killed on September 4, 1993, as stated in the research motion. On 22 October 1993, Brigadier General Bahtiyar Aydın, who was commander of the District of Diyarbakir district of Diyarbakır and who argued that the Kurdish issue could not be solved with just guns, was killed. Major Ahmet Cem Ersever, known as the founder of JITEM, was killed on October 24, 1993. On December 29, 1993, the terrorists who raided the police station in the village of Pilot have killed 12 of our men. These are a number of unsolved and terrorist incidents that only came out of 1993. Before and after 1993, our highly valued intellectuals, our journalists, our scientists, in the wake of the unsolved murders, unfortunately, they lost their lives. In particular, in the 90s, our country became a country known for unsolved executions, unjust executions, and torture. Assassinations, neglects, deaths followed. During the next period, our country faced the event of Susurity, followed by the process leading to the February 28 postmodern coup, and a 30-year-old terror reality. The terror, the unknown, the lack of democracy, has been reflected in our economy, while the killings continue, while the vault of the treasure has continued to be emptied, the banks have been sunk, and the bill has been raised to our nation. The coalition parties, which run the country, on average for two years, have transformedly shared power, and have not been able to cure terrorism or the unknown or the economy. Our country has lost blood both in democracy and in the economy. In the early 2000s, our nation, who wanted to get rid of the dark painting of the 90s, made a decision and opened the door to a new era. The most important weapon for those who want to create a climate of chaos and insecurity in society and to achieve their anti-democracy goals has ended with the emergence of the criminal force of the AK PARTI. In the last ten years, we have witnessed that unsolved murders have been tried to be illuminated in Turkey, that gangs, mobs, dark centers have been driven decisively, that nothing is covered, that suspects have been allowed to account in front of independent and impartial judiciary. Turkey is going through a very important process, valued lawmakers. The dark events that mark the last 30 years of our country are being considered. The unsolved incidents in the southeast, the investigations and prosecutions of these incidents, the resuscitation of the Şemdinli case, the State Department case, Ergenekon investigations and cases, the Balyoz and other coup plot cases, and dozens of cases in the dark of unsolved cases. Research commissions have been set up at different times in Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate unsolved events. The research commissions conducted some research, even with the limited authority given by Turkey's Grand National Assembly, but prevented our country from reaching the desired conclusion of that day's conditions. Despite the negative conditions in our country, reports of these research commissions have been discussed publicly, and many of the issues proposed by the reports have been implemented over the past decade. In Turkey, the situation is different now than it was in the past. The citizens of our country see and live that our country has taken significant distances in the field of law and justice and democratisation. Reports from the European Union and international organisations also confirm that. It has been a very important advantage for our country to have a political government at work, to renew our mandate, to make our criminal justice system a more modern structure, to have constitutional and legal changes that have led to judicial independence and neutrality, and most importantly to ensure that our country's past painful experiences never happen again. Because of this positive climate our country has come to, there are many unsolved cases in which the judiciary has begun to investigate and prosecute the unsolved events of the past. The processes leading to the coup are now being investigated by the judiciary. Opposition parties no, the AK PARTY also carried out the removal of the 15th amendment, which paves the way for the trial of September 12 coupgers. In the February 28th process, the opposition to the investigation and prosecution of prosecutorial attacks, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and other coup plans has never broken its determination. Under the BDP group's proposal, a research commission is asked to be set up to investigate the unsolved events. The truth behind the unsolved events is now known to everyone. The Parliamentary Research Commission, which has successfully completed its mission to investigate this fact, has investigated all the other initiatives and processes that have made democracy dysfunctional with all the coups and regulations that have interfered with democracy in our country, and has created a very important report on measures that need to be taken. I thank you very much from here to our President and his esteemed members. The source that emerges is a source that really sheds light on our future. Again, the most important goal of unsolved murders is to disrupt social peace and create chaos in the country, setting the stage for terrorism and antidemocratic intervention. Finally, the Parliamentary Research Commission, established to investigate social peace routes established in the Turkish Grand National Assembly and assess the solution process, is also aimed at this goal. This Commission will play a crucial role in investigating the background of unsolved events, just as it did with the Strike Commission, in investigating activities aimed at disrupting social peace. Therefore, in the same manner and in similar circumstances, a commission for the same purpose says that I am against the BDP group proposal because it is now established and has already begun to work, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0038par0390	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. In his favor, Ghaziantep MP Mehmet Candy. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0039par0394	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a commitment in favor of the Peace and Democracy Party Group's proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to give my first criticism to the Peace and Democracy Party: Why do you start from 90? But there are many unsolved murders in the history of this country. I'd like to start by saying that he's missing something. And I'm going to talk to my dear spokeswoman who just spoke against me -- because -- I've worked with the Commission for Research on Impacts and Covenants, and I'm going to talk about what flaws and what challenges we've faced. Hundreds of intellectuals, academics, artists, writers, politicians, the director of the NGO and the unsolved murders that we lost our bureaucrat remain a black mark on our history of democracy. The fact that these events were secretly planned by the dark forces that lost our country's very important values, that their perpetrators were unexplored, has left deep scars on the public conscience. Unexplored events over the years have undermined the confidence of millions of our citizens in the state and justice system, especially those who lost relatives in the unsolved murders, the cases that have fallen due to the statute of limitations. Those who argue that Turkey is an advanced democracy today have more important things to do today than the 8 motions given for the same purpose in the 23rd term. It makes sense to reject them or not to receive them. But no agenda is more important than the suffering of mothers, children, wives, and tears they shed over the years. It must not be forgotten that countries that cannot shed light on the darkness of their past will continue to be the focus of the activities of the dark altars. These murders will not be illuminated until the external links to the unsolved murders, the internal links to the state have been disclosed, the reasons for the increase in pre-inflicted times, the reasons for the stab-cutting of these murders without being identified. Is it a coincidence that the number of unsolved murders in 1978, 46 in 1978, 81 in 1979, 98 in 1980, dropped to 2 in 1981, and was not in 1982, dear friends? Or can the average murder of 300 per year prior to February 28th not be described as setting the stage for someone's motives? All of this needs to be investigated, and it needs to be investigated under the roof of the House. However, before this is done, the restrictions of Parliamentary Council of Parliament on parliamentary research must be lifted, otherwise the report of the commission will not be able to pass beyond the commission report, which was set up for the same purpose in 1993. Dear friends, investigating unsolved murders is a political investigation. Article 105 of the Parliamentary Council has stated that state secrets will be excluded from the scope of Parliamentary research. The lack of specific limits on what the state secret is limits the effectiveness of political-quality research. The same is true of the ▪ticori secret. Such a broadness of the government's secret and the concepts of ▪ticari secrets narrows the work of research commissions. So, first of all, the change of this rule in the House of Parliament, the secret of the state, and the limits of the concepts of the TKtari secret, must be determined, otherwise governments can render research commissions ineffective, including the secret of the state, or the secret of the state, which they do not desire to be investigated. The Parliamentary Research Commission has the authority to ask for information from ministries and agencies with general and integration budgets, local administrations, subsidies, universities, Turkish Radio-Television Agency, public economic initiatives, private law or private law, banks and institutions established on the basis of the authority provided by private law, public institutional institutions, and associations working in public interests, and to ask for information. Commissions are not authorized to seek information from institutions and organisations, except those mentioned here. For example, commissions are not authorized to ask the Turkish Armed Forces for information. The Turkish Armed Forces provide information only to the commissions, whether it is in good faith or not. This judgment must be regulated, authorized to ask for information from all institutions. As for those who do not give information to the commission, who are incompetent, who give crooked information, the regulations for what their commission can do should be made by this Parliament. See how these restrictions, shortcomings of Parliamentary Affairs, have been reflected in the work of the Commission established in 1993: 4 judges and 1 republic prosecutors have been rejected from the Ministry of Justice to be an expert in the Commission; Special Forces Command has not responded to the Commission's request for information; universities have responded by sending articles that do not have the capacity to shed light on the demand for information; there has been no press flow of information, no documents; the National Security Council, in the same way, has withheld information and documents from the Commission that will lead to their work; Ankara DGM Bahriye Threeok, Muammer Aksoy, Cemsoy. The number of unsolved political murders from the Ministry of Justice and Internal Affairs has been 23. The number given by the Ministry of Interior is 126, asking for details of the 1993 Commission. If there were to be a commission today, they would face the same problems. My fellow lawmakers, we have worked for seven months and fifteen days at the Commission for Research on Impacts and Corporates, and we've always seen that one hand emerges before the coups, commits unsolved murders, and the perpetrators are not caught. Here, so far, there are no enlightened incidents involving the murders committed in the Sakarya triangle. Again, the spokesman in Turkey has just mentioned, during our power, the unsolved murders have been illuminated. I wonder which one was illuminated. Which unsolved murder has been uncovered? It's not just unsolved homicides, it's a matter of past unsolved cases. Here, May 1st, 1977, needs to be illuminated. If you cannot shed light on these social events, the massacre of Marash, the events in Çorum, the perpetrators of the unsolved murders, if you cannot bring them to trial, unfortunately, one hand will press the button again and bring them back to life. We've lived a lot in the coup commission, and our friends who work here certainly know it. We have a famous government secret; nothing is given, only documents you need to know. Another important piece of information, I'm afraid. According to the Banking Law, it is shown as a secret. He cheated the government, robbed banks, did a lot of illegal work, today he's in the straits, he's got protection, he's in the latest car, he's in the poor man's rights, so to speak, he's stealing, but under commercial secrecy, I'm not allowed to know this person's name. The secret of the state is something like that. Unfortunately, some things are wanted to be covered up by the secret of the state. We've come across these very seriously. Again, during these Commission studies, this Commission has made serious decisions, signed 20 decisions under which all political parties have signed, and our two legs have been put into one leg, and, to be honest, we've worked very fast, we've tried to write this report without sleeping, we've raised our proposals, but when we bring them up... when? It was December, valuable lawmakers, and we arrived at the end of May today, so it's been about seven months, about as long as the Commission's working time, but neither the proposals on this Commission nor what we've brought to the agenda of their solutions have been brought to the Parliament's agenda. What do we want? So that's where we were saying, let's set up a research commission, make a civil constitution, make arrangements for victims of state and coup, make changes to the shape of the National Security Council. We brought all of this up that day, and in the fact that we talked about in Article 2 about these victims of the coup, on May 1, 1977, on the murders of Maras, Çorum, Malatya, and Sivas, we decided to investigate them very seriously, to set up research commissions about them, but unfortunately, it's been seven months, and they haven't been implemented. Under it are the signatures of the AKP, MPHP, BDP, and Republican People's Party MPs. My fellow lawmakers, this Parliament must carry out these attempts against it in the first place... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and lay the groundwork for the establishment of such a commission. Our vote is yes. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0040par0412	Thank you, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0041par0413	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0040par0414	Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0041par0415	As he began his speech, he said, "I want to start by criticizing the BDP." In terms of clarity, I'd like to make a point to make it into the transcripts, if I may.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0042par0416	He didn't say anything bad, he didn't criticize.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0040par0417	Criticism...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0041par0418	No, I know, I want to clarify. Why was there a motion for research after the 90s? But I want to clarify for him what was before it.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0040par0419	Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0041par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. He began by critically criticizing BDP's motion to investigate unsolved murders from the 90s to date. We know there were unsolved murders before and before the '90s. We have dozens of motions to investigate the creation of a research commission to investigate the period that actually started with Mustafa Suphi. We think it's important to investigate after the '90s we've given today, only because it covers political killings, but we have other research proposals that we've submitted in this context and in this scope, and I've felt the need to express them for the record. The Mustafa Suphis are about to begin -- because even in the Ottoman era, there are unsolved murders committed in Turkey -- there are unsolved murders committed every semester. The murders committed after the 90s were mostly political killings; party leaders, lawmakers were massacred during this period. So that's kind of the point of this research proposal. I put it on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0043par0425	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Against you, Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0044par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge against the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, as you know, today is May 22, 2013, November 3, 2002, and more than ten and a half years have passed. Not too long ago, ten and a half years ago in this country, a part of the country was ruled by a state of emergency. So, in fact, as the spokesman for the Peace and Democracy Party has expressed, we are now going through a period of historical importance. So there's no such thing as ignoring anything in the AK PARTY administration at this time. We're all going through this together, we see. In this process, the removal of status, the removal of custody, the full removal of the custody regime from the country's agenda, is the most important work at the point of eliminating the current situation. So I don't want to say any more about this in detail by our esteemed AK PARTY MP Yilmaz junc. As you know, we're going to start discussing it today on our agenda for the Oil Law bill we've been talking about since last week. We think it's a very important bill for the country. Although we respectfully respect the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party, I hereby salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0045par0438	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. The Peace and Democracy Party has suggested that you vote...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0046par0440	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit01spe0045par0441	I'm going to vote for you, and I'm going to look for enough to decide: All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0045par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 22/05/2013 (today), I would like to propose that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On March 23, 2012, "Special Security Officers' rights, health problems and other problems are being investigated, the necessary measures are being taken, and it has been proposed to the Turkish Parliament on Wednesday (May 22, 2013), as well as to the 13393 issues given to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly for the investigation of private security personnel, legislation and practices, to determine the victims of these problems, and to determine the ways of solutions. On the other hand, Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0047par0018	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed lawmakers as the National Movement Party Group to open a parliamentary investigation into the issues of private security personnel. I salute your high council. Security is the most important service a state can offer to its citizens who live within the borders of sovereignty. Security is the most important reason for peace, peace, the intention of living in the brotherhood of society and to remain a member of that society. In this framework, there is no talking about a state that can't provide security without security. The 5th Article of the Constitution, titled the main objective and tasks of the state, states that the main objectives of the state are to ensure the welfare, peace and happiness of the people and society. In particular, general law enforcement forces from law enforcement and gendarmes serve with other deputy law enforcement forces within the Ministry of the Interior at the point of preventing crime and fighting crime. In this way, private security services are also contributing to the public safety and order of the general branch serving in this way. Security services for private security companies are allowed to complete when the general law enforcement forces are inadequate or because the need for security services is increasing day by day. It is widely accepted that private security services help us to live in public with more security, make our lives easier. As part of Law 5188, the special security commission issued in the governorships has already ruled which departments will allow private security services, whether the protection will be made armed or unarmed, the basics and other issues related to the training of private security personnel. Under the law, private security services can be provided in 16 different areas such as hotels, airports, schools, factories, stadiums, hospitals. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, employment in private security has been increasing in recent years. Since 2004, when Law 5188 entered into force, 864 thousand people have been entitled to a private security basic training certificate. According to the permit granted by private security commissions within the province's governorships, there are currently approximately 66,000 private security clearances and 470,000 private security personnel currently serving 262,766 private security personnel. According to information from the Security Directorate's Office of Special Security Office, there are still 1,430 private security companies and 737 private educational institutions that raise private security personnel. However, the lack of Law No. 5188 is also considered to be a failure, a malfunction, and a faulty arrangement. The most important negative criticism is that the current law contains provisions in favour of the employer rather than private security personnel. This is confirmed by the law that the principles of private security personnel are not clearly established, that there is no clear regulation on their wages. On the other hand, the lack of legal regulation on educational activities and auditing private security educational institutions is causing the quality of the profession to decline. Reconstruction of the social rights of private security employees, boosting the quality of education, increasing the hours of training, and especially the completion of working principles of their staff under the law will improve the quality of private security services and will achieve the desired goal. The employer's choice of private security personnel to be paid is a minimum wage. It is a very serious injustice for private security personnel, who are similar to the general law enforcement forces, or even a complementary feature in the expression of the law, to work under minimum wage. Especially the fact that the hours of work are 12 hours in violation of Business Law 4857 and ILO contracts is another sign of how difficult these personnel are working. In terms of social security premiums, the minimum wage deposits have caused private security personnel to face pensions from almost the lowest level, if they retire. Private security personnel are not paid for the roads we call social rights, such as food fees. In fact, there are no private security guards with good conditions. We can't say that, but they're just public figures -- they're still being liquidated -- and they're working at some institutionally well-known private businesses. The ratio of these to total employees is only equivalent to 5 per cent. We can sum up the other problems of private security personnel that need to be solved immediately in the following way: The working conditions in the sector are very heavy. Private security personnel, whose general armband is complementary, must be assessed for the right to wear out and ensure that they receive actual service increases. Private security personnel lack regular and long-term employment opportunities, causing employers to face a problem such as failing to pay severance and tip compensation. Private security personnel must be dealt with in terms of seniority and reporting compensation. Employers are forced to resign so as not to pay compensation to private security personnel. This relationship between the staff and the employer is needed to be met with regulations. One of the most important problems is the age criteria for private security personnel. Private companies, in particular, avoid employing staff over certain age. This causes those who have served as private security personnel for years to become unemployed, unable to find employment. In this regard, private security personnel should be categorized for their age and a way to employ private security personnel at any age. Again, private security personnel serving in private businesses are paid in part. In such a way, the opportunism of employers who look out for certain financial opportunities must be avoided. It is against the law to employ private security personnel outside of security and protection services. In this regard, inspections must be tightened. The lack of holiday and holiday fees, the blocking of trade union rights, and the absence of security services taken through tenders are the main problems faced by private security personnel. So here's our research proposal today, and we think it's appropriate for us to open a parliamentary investigation to ensure that the problems are what they are, that the victims are identified and that there are solutions. And we're waiting for your support. In the meantime, I'd like to remind you of some current issues while private security personnel are on the agenda. According to recent reports, universities and stadiums will no longer be carried out by private security personnel, but by a new group of personnel who are called the guardianship officers, who are expected to be included in police services. After six months of training, these guards will take over the protection of sensitive buildings and certain individuals, including police stations. AKP governments govern the state with policies aimed at saving the day without a specific plan and project in each area. This understanding leads to nothing but chaos and confusion. If it's about security, let a AKP government official explain what the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has done so far. While this institution is being established, intelligence has spoken of co-ordinating, co-operation in the fight against terrorism, but Turkey has been monitoring the debates of surprised state and government officials between the MIT and Security who have claimed to have foretold the Reyhan attack for more than ten days. You're the one who established the Security Affairs General Office within the prime minister's office, but in a country where so many security services have been established so far, in our state, where the MIT is equipped with so many powers, despite the security agency where the police are equipped with all kinds of technical equipment, the terrorist organization that wants to do what it wants to do. Now, you're employing a new class like the guards, as if the problems of private security personnel have been resolved. This new class is going to cause chaos and confusion in terms of the law enforcement regime, so give up your intention, and we'll deal with the problems of private security that I consider above. We're going to employ your bodyguard. From the moment you say, what we think of is allegations that PKK terrorists will be employed from the mountain. If you plan to employ PKK-based terrorists as bodyguards, if you calculate that terrorists will serve as self-security forces, as you have agreed with the PKK, know that we will resist until the end. With these feelings and thoughts, I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0048par0043	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Against him is Niğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0049par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the National Movement Party Group's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation to investigate private security officers' rights, health problems and other issues and to take the necessary precautions. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers also bring with them the rapid and stable development of our country, the diversification and privatisation of given public services. In 2004, Special Security Services No. 5188 was issued the Law to ensure the completion of private security services in a state-of-the-art capacity. Private security is an industry that employs a large number of people in our country. A hundred hours without weapons, a hundred and twenty hours of training, and those who have succeeded in the basic training exam enter the sector as employees with their security certificate. There are 1,260 private security companies operating across the country and 575 private security educational institutions, and 300 alarm monitoring centres operating. As of today, the number of private security guards who are actually working is 272.596. An automation project is also conducted by our Security Directorate on detailed data that shows the educational status of private security officers, gender, working in the public and private sector. Dear lawmakers, private security guards' salaries, protection and security services for private security companies are set up in a contract between them and the person, institution and organisation. Under Section 39 of Labour Law 4857, under the minimum fee specified by the minimum wage Commission, the workers are not paid, or under the minimum wage, as required by the minimum fee, as required by the minimum fee. Private security officers' working hours, permits, fees and other autonomy rights are organised and audited under Business Law 4857. Mr. President, our Ministry of Internal Affairs is about to conclude the changes to Law 5188 to protect and improve the rights of private security officers. According to these studies, our private security guards are expected to receive more than 30 per cent to 70 per cent of the minimum wage. No cuts are expected from their fees. Of course, we care about autonomy rights, health problems, education, working conditions and other problems. A variety of studies continue to be conducted on these issues. A project that envisions restructuring private security training to make it in line with today's conditions has also begun. The Project for the Development of Special Security Education is primarily intended to examine the existing private security educational system in Turkey with all its dimensions using scientific research methods, uncovering the problems in practice and theory, and identify the most appropriate ways to address these problems. Finally, a study is under way for the creation of a new structure that will serve as a security guard within the safety services class. With the legalisation of the work, 10,000 guards are expected to be taken in the first place. After four months of theoretical and two months of practical training, they will be assigned to protect individuals, institutions, sensitive areas, missions, and so on. Mr. President, we have complete faith that all of the problems of our private security officers, who have been proposed and are not counted, will be resolved by our government. I say we disagree with the National Party for Action Group's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0050par0063	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. In the end, Izmir MP Rahmi is the Türeli of Love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0051par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the group's proposal for the problems of private security officers of the National Movement Party. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, work life in our country is a very serious area, and in the AKP period, a common subcontractorship relationship in almost every area seems to have begun to be replaced by a secure and continuous working relationship, where work life is increasingly removed from the norms of the International Labour Organization during the AKP administration. First of all, health care, protection, and security -- we're going to talk about the problems of private security officers here now -- and in many other areas -- rapid subcontractorization has begun to become the common working norm, the relationship norm. Of course, subcontractor working relations can be defended under an excuse like this, but if you look at many countries in the world and compare them with developing countries like us, maybe we're a developing country; that's why we have to do it. But this, in terms of the economics of Turkey today and the future, there's nothing going on. Dear MPs, what Turkey needs to do is to be able to make the life of a working life dominated by high wages and qualified labor a dominant norm, which gives high added value, science and technology weight, which eliminates non-regulation, but unfortunately, we see that it's been taken seriously away from this recently, and we know that in the subcontractorship relationship, people are being worked like slaves, with extremely low wages. Now, of course, we said subcontracting protection and security services, so let's move on to the problems of these private security guards. Now, there's a 2004 Law number 5188. This Law has been established to regulate the working relations of private security officers working at public institutions and private sector firms, but unfortunately we can't say that there is a necessary distance in this area because we see that the problems that exist in this area are still going on in a serious way. Currently, nearly 900,000 people have been certified in the private security sector, and the number of current employees -- of course, it's changing over time, it's a very dynamic structure -- around 220,000 people. Dear lawmakers, some of the main issues of the industry are: the weight of working conditions is one of the most important problems. Another problem is having low wages and insufficient financial rights. In the same way, the lack of adequate security in the field of social rights has made the private security sector a very fragile and open area for labour exploitation. Dear lawmakers, low wages and inadequate financial and social rights have indeed become one of the most fundamental characteristics of this area. In a structure dominated by a subcontractorial working relationship in public institutions and private sector firms, we know that contractors, private security firms, take a certain fee per person, individual employees, but they transfer very little of it to workers they employ. As a result, we find that the vast majority of private security workers are employed at minimum wage. Another problem is the length of working hours. Legal hours, which are eight hours a day, are inadmissible. Private security guards are employed at least 12 hours a day. There's nothing to defend by creating a working relationship with 12 hours and more time. In a similar way, no additional grants are paid to employees by employers, such as overtime, food allowance, road money, under normal circumstances, which the employer has committed to paying the staff he employs in private security. The number of companies that pay workers in this area is small enough to point fingers. In the same way, special security officers are unable to receive severance and tip compensations because they are not assigned to service contracts or conditions. Now, I leave it to all of you to appreciate the position of an employee who can't afford severance pay in our time. In the same way, another exploitation area is the work of private security guards in extracurricular areas. Private security is a very sensitive area, as you know. We see that it is also very common for people in this area to work outside of this area, although it is a security area where people who work have a special education that requires intense attention -- which requires extreme attention -- as our other representatives have just explained. Gene, another area is that private security guards -- some of them carry guns, some of them don't carry guns -- are not allowed to carry weapons -- are not recognised for actual service increases to armed security guards, or the right to wear out. However, when you look at what they're doing, the soldiers are doing an important task, as well as the police, and in many areas, they're doing their job according to the Law on Police Duty and Legacy. In that sense, we don't understand why the right to wear out isn't given to private security guards. Again, another problem area is that private safety training courses are far from qualified training. Because, as a result, if you're going to employ these people in very special areas, such as security and protection, they need to grow and get certification in these courses in a special way, but unfortunately, they're often certified on paper because they're not properly trained. We also see that you have a serious problem in this regard. Another area, according to Labour and Social Security Ministry Law 4857, is that its audits on this area have been extremely inadequate. As a matter of fact, when we told the minister about the written question motions earlier, we found that some of the problems in this area have been acknowledged as having these problems, but unfortunately we got the answer that they are due to a lack of law, not a lack of law, but the lack of proper control. So I'd like to ask you: if a private ministry on this issue is not going to do this audit, then who is going to do it, what institution is there? I'd like to invite the Ministry of Labour and Social Security to conduct the necessary inspections of the subject that is entering the field of duty. Gene, let me tell you about a concrete problem here. Because, while we were on the Plan and Budget Commission, starting with budget time, it was often brought up from the 2013 budget talks. Law enforcement and security officers working in municipalities have been cut off from overtime. It was in the budget law's ruler (K). Unfortunately, when police officers and fire departments and security officers were working overtime, they were removed from the (K) table and suffered a serious loss. Victimship in this area is also needed to be eliminated. Finally, I would like to say again that in such a special, sensitive area, the existing Law number 5188 is far from solving the problems of the sector. For him, we believe there is a need for a special security work law to regulate the working conditions of private security guards. So right now, 5188, and in the same way, it's subject to the Work Law in terms of different provisions, but if we take out a special security work law, and I think we can arrange all the issues under that, from the working conditions of staff in this field to the working conditions, the legal rights, the registered social security system, and we can see the area in a whole structure, and we can solve the problems. I hereby declare that we will vote in favour of the group's proposal for the problems of private security officers of the National Movement Party. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0052par0086	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca against him. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0053par0090	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the nationalist Action Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, so far, our valued lawmakers have discussed areas of security related to the problems of private security guards. Mr. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, our Nüğde MP, also briefed us in detail on the new regulations of the Law issued in 2004 (until the fall). By the way, our previous speaker also mentioned details about subcontractorship. Our Minister of Labour and Social Security Faruk Çelik, you know, mentioned a study, a preparation for subcontractors. This is one of the plans for Congress to come up without a vacation. Hopefully, it'll be a legal arrangement that will be signed by all of us. I don't want to express it so I don't have to go through it again. Last week, we predicted today's meeting of Turkish Oil Bill No. 450, which we thought would be on the agenda. It's a 29-point bill that we're going to run as a two-part law. So we predicted that this would be discussed. Therefore, I express my opinion against you, and respectfully salute the General Assembly by expressing my opposition to the group proposal of the National Party for Action.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0054par0095	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. I submit the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 22/05/2013, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 24/04/2013 by Mersin MP Aytug Atcı and 24 lawmakers, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was built on the Murat River to investigate the effects of HES's influence on the Palu-Young-Mush railway line (865 rows). lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, to be read in the presentations Wednesday (22/05/2013/2013), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favor of the proposal, Mersin MP Aytug Horseman. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0055par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favour of our motion to investigate the matter due to the stench and allegations of corruption from the Palu-Young-Mous railway line's relocation business. I salute the lawmakers, who have not been involved in any corruption and have not been exposed to any corruption. Dear MPs, I'm the volunteer MP of Bingley. There are three MPs, one of the BDPs, and two of the AKPs, and one of them is the minister, who looks from the outside, who actually considers Bingol to be lucky. But the situation is not at all, whether it is the real resources of Bingol, such as thermal water, and the government's government's Minister of Bingol, who is only looking at it, does not protect its rights, nor does it even harm Bingley. After the thermal water in Bingol, which is the spa, I'm going to explain a second case to you. Unfortunately, there's a lot of files coming up, and as they mature, I'll continue to share them with you. Today's case is about the crackdown on the hydropower plant, which flows between Palu-Young-Mush, which is being made on Murat River, which is merged with the Fırat River. First of all, let's see how the hydroelectric plant, or HES, is done in short, and then how it's made out of these HESEs, how the AKP supports them, how it condones them, let's look at them together. For HES production, at one time, the Energy Market Editorial Board, EDPK, gives a license. These licenses are in the form of a do-and-do environment. The companies that apply for the licenses go before the application, they do research on this land, and on this land, they see if I can do it, how much I can cost, and they decide to build a dam or HES here. As he calculates his expenses, he's doing the math on any road, any railway, power line, telephone line, and then he's thinking about how much electricity he's going to sell here, and he's going to make a profit here, and he's going to commit to getting the job, and he's going to have to stop at this commitment. All the work that's been done so far, dear friends. So he gives electricity to a public citizen, and then the company that does the work makes money. Now for our story. Dear friends, four hydropower stations will be built on the Murat River; the castle 1, Kale 2, Beyhan 1 and Beyhan 2 will be built. A company comes and says to EPDK, "I want to build these dams. I want to take his license and start building it. Well, it's fine until we start construction, but then there's a railroad at the construction site, a railroad from when it was built with iron nets. This railroad route needs to be changed, but this route change is very expensive. He's alleleming, he's callin', he's handing it over to the state through the AKP. The State Railways also tender the 114km railway route between Palu-Young-Mous, which began in Elazığ, which ended in Mush. Look at God's work! The company he's supposed to be doing is there, and the government's bidding on the firm's behalf. The price of this tender is 744 million, 744 trillion liras with old money. You didn't hear wrong, with a score of $744 trillion, the railroad relocation project is being tendered to a company by the state. However, this has to be taken over by the company that's going to build the HES dam. So, who's taking this shift? Look at God's work! The company, which will build the HES dam there, receives a second tender again with the state's hands and receives a 744 trillion-dollar tender from the government. So, the government says to the firm: "Sister, you come here, build an HES, build a dam; sell your electricity, everything, earn money; but in the meantime, I'll make you a 744 trillion tender; you sit there, make a profit." So, how do you make this tender? Let's take a look at the bid. I mean, is the tender being held according to the Public Contraction Act, the State Contraction Act? No. This tender, unfortunately, is done by invitation. How many companies are invited? Fifteen firms are invited. Sounds good. Fifteen firms. When you examined 15 firms, his safe was the same, only formalities were carried out. Fifteen firms have total profit partners, same safes. Well, there's another situation: a general discount of about 60 percent of all tenders around Bingol, in the east, in the southeast. So, how much is the general discount on this tender? 16.7%. You didn't hear wrong, in a tender that needs a 60 per cent discount, unfortunately, our state says yes to a 16.7 per cent discount with the AKP's hand. It's tragic, the government's money is gone again. There may be those of you who say, "No more." But I will continue to blacken your heart. Because, more than that, you won't believe it either. Why? Because, when 744 trillions are being given the same firm, and they're being given an invitation-style job, you know, when the railroad's going to be replaced, the new places need to be condemned. So, who's gonna do it? If this firm is supposed to pay for these again, does the company pay for them when the government's not? He won't pay. It's the government's property, eat it, eat it, eat it, and you're getting the government to do it again. Thus, a 4 million 458,492 square metres of transport authorises the State Railways of the Republic of Turkey to carry out a hasty formalisation process. How much is this publicization? We don't know that yet, so God knows how much more money is going to come over 744 trillions. And while you're doing all these things, you're shamelessly, without even frying your face, and you're saying: "We're building a railroad." You're saying to the people who don't believe that there is a railroad, but we're trying to shorten the railroad. You're flying 744 trillions out of the government's vault in one way, just to shorten a 30km, 30km road. I've already filed a question motion, but the Minister hasn't responded. What did I ask? ▪ Why did you make the government pay 744 trillions when the money spent on changing routes should have been paid by the company? Why did you do it in a tender? Why didn't you get a 60% discount? I asked about many things like that, but did Mr. Bali Yıldırım answer? No, he didn't. I said, "Does it look good on your conscience?" He didn't answer her either. And as he was talking here, I said to him, "Come to the Palu-Bingöl-Mous railway line." And when I said to him, "You know, he was very angry, and he said to me, "Now, friend, if you have a claim of corruption, bring it here." He said, "Bring it here." I am the last man you will accuse of corruption. I accuse you. You can't accuse me of corruption with such blunt words and vague words. Listen well to this place. The corrupter and the corrupter are low. The minister said it was from this stand. He is the vilest man who has violated the right of this land and the right of an orphan.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0056par0119	That's classic, they're classic.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0055par0120	That's what the Minister said from this stand. In fact, he was hoarse when he said these things, and if you remember, he couldn't speak for a while. So I asked him later why he didn't answer my questions when I was talking to him about an affair. I'll answer, even if it's expired. He said, "I'll answer." So I said, "If you answer, I promise, I will withdraw my research motion." Did he ever answer? He didn't answer. Why are you running, Mr. Secretary? O AKP, why do you refuse to answer my questions? I'm here to accuse you. I'm here to point the finger at you. Go out, answer them properly if you dare. And you won't be able to answer it at all. And fear doesn't help anything. We're gonna have to charge you for all of this. Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0057par0123	Give the information you have to the D.A., file a criminal complaint!
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0058par0124	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Against you, İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0128	Mr. President, I have made a promise by the Republican People's Party against the motion to investigate the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the content of the motion, there are several allegations. These allegations are: Now, hydropower plants are being built on the Murat River, and there are four hydropower plants called Kale 1, Kale 2, Beyhan 1 and Beyhan 2 projects. This is about the hydroelectric power plant, and it's said that the submersibles here should be built by the company, but they haven't been built, and that the Palu-Young-Mous railway is a 100-meter stretch of the 114km line, and it's alleged to have been built by the public. Another claim is that the company that's going to build these hydropower plants and the company that won this deplace job is the same as the company that's going to do the hydropower plant project with the companies that are going to do the tender. See, high-value lawmakers, Turkey has been growing steadily for ten years. In the world of the 16th largest economy, it has a goal to bring economic growth to the top 10 by 2023. And Turkey needs energy growing by 8 per cent every year. To meet this energy need, Turkey has to invest about $5 billion each year and implements a strategy, such as reducing its risk by diversifying its energy need. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the current situation, let me first express Turkey's hydroelectric potential. See, according to DSI data, Turkey has a potential for 216 billion kilowatts of hydroelectric energy, and economically, the amount of that is now available is about 130 billion kilowatts, and Turkey is now able to use one-quarter of that with its existing, installed resources, and provides for an energy need from hydropower projects such as 52 billion kilowatts per year. Since hydroelectric projects are not fully completed, we see Turkey's water that will generate around $9 billion a year flows into the sea. When we look at the lower fractures, 2012 data on the diversity of energy in Turkey now tell us: 43.5 percent of Turkey's energy is from natural gas and LNG. 27.2 per cent from coal, 24.2 per cent hydroelectric...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0060par0134	Hey, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, What are you gonna do with them?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0135	Calm down, Mr. Ali, I'll be there.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0060par0136	Get over there, what are you gonna do with them? That's not the truth of what he said.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0137	Wind is 2.4; liquid fuels and asphaltite 2.3; geothermal is 0.4.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0060par0138	So, are they partners or not, or do they have that kind of corruption? What are you gonna do with the others?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0139	If you'll just calm down, I'll come.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0060par0140	We're calm, we're waiting.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0141	As of 2030, this composition will change to 23.4 per cent of natural gas. Of course, the composition here is changing, along with the hydroelectrics, nuclear energy, wind and solar energy that we're going to activate here. Coal will reach 32 per cent, hydroelectricity 15 per cent, wind will reach 11.6 per cent, nuclear energy will reach 11.5 per cent, sun will reach 4.5 per cent, and others will reach 2%.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0061par0142	What am I saying, what are you saying! I say there's corruption, you...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0143	Teacher, if you calm down, I'll tell you. Wait, I'm coming.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0061par0144	You've finished five minutes, you'll tell me more about corruption; you answer me.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0145	Dear MPs, we're looking at the motion, see, now we're reviewing the motion. The motion says: there is a price of $744 million. That's true, but, guys, there's 18 percent VAT in this. You know what the real number is, 630 million, 413, 261,40 cents. Now, when you add 18 percent to that, the number goes up here. If there's good faith here...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0062par0146	Yeah, it's not a figure, it's a do-and-do, is it his right or not?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0147	...you will go to the state and pay for the 18-percent VAT.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0062par0148	He's saying who should do this. Who's got to do it?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0149	Mr. Ali, wait a minute, he's coming over. You'll go to the state and pay 18 percent, but you're going to say it like it's 744, and you're going to try to grow the number. Secondly, the subject of tensilation. Look, I'm getting to the subject.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0063par0152	What if it's a penny, what's important is whether he has to do it or not?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0153	Look, it says now that the State Department of Water...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0064par0154	If it's $1, it's $1; it's not corruption!
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0155	See, what it says about the subject of tenzilat: the state waterworks dam projects are also known to apply at least 30 per cent of the tenzilat. Look, even though the public tenders of similar projects in the region are about 60 per cent.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0065par0156	Well, tenzilat doesn't matter, so who's got to do it for a dollar?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0157	...Palu-Young-Müst-Müst-Müst-Müst-Müstüs-Müstüs-Müstüde-Tülase business has been given 16 per cent of the tender to the public and has also caused damage to the public. Look, friends, the State Waterworks: 60-30 tenzilats per cent, he says. He built this place with 16 percent, who's making the tender? State Railways of the Republic of Turkey. Guys, there's no point in twisting this, making a difference. That's right, you should have put the tensiles of the Turkish Republic's State Railways.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0065par0158	Not Tenzilat, Mr. Orator, who has to do the railroad?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0159	But you're going through the effort of state waterworks to make the subject of subjectivity appear to be the subject of the State Railway. Now, valued lawmakers, see, the relevant law clause says that the current railway will be subject to the management of the railway at the price of publicisation, which is required to change the railway transport route, including projects that were done before the time of this bend came into effect, but which are not yet completed, including the unfinished water use agreements.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0066par0161	Did you get a transportation fee?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0162	It's being studied, it's being carried on with the nationalization. Friends, look, what you're saying is that the price of the tender should be made by the firm, but the relevant law clause says that it does so.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0067par0164	Work it up and take it some more.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0165	Look, item 24 says that whatever the relevant administration is, does it. That's the point.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0068par0166	Did you get his money?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0167	It's not about him, it's about the publicization. It's about the publicization of the current road. The bidding and the winning firm, I'm on my way. Now, folks, there's a company here that's taking the hydroelectric construction, it's taking the equipment there, it's going to do the dam work. Now, here, he's struggling so he can take this railroad job himself. Why? The setback here will interfere with the construction of its dam. That's why this firm is here, fighting in a brutal way, giving the lowest bid, and getting the tender. Because his equipment is there, his staff is already there, and it's easier to move.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0069par0170	It's less than that, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0059par0171	Now, it's really not right to express it like there's something in it. Dear lawmakers, the power of these projects is close to 2,000 megawatts, with the capacity to produce up to 4.5 billion kilowatts in total. Look, we can't afford to waste a drop of water. Each drop of water must participate in energy and growth, employment, production, and production of this country. I'd like to end my conversation with a good word from Lesage. Lesage says that after slander, we have no words, even virtue is the bread of slander. I respectfully salute the General Assembly and declare that we will be against the motion.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0070par0176	Thank you, Mr. Mush. In the end...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0071par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0070par0179	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0071par0180	Mr. Orator used my words to create a different meaning, and I'd like to correct it, sir, if I may.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0072par0181	What did it mean? What words did he use that you would answer without taunting him?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0071par0182	I'm not saying he picked on me, he just twisted my words, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0072par0183	If he's not, he's entitled to an answer.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0073par0184	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0072par0185	No, if it's not teasing, he doesn't have the right to answer.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0073par0186	He wants to fix it. It led to a misunderstanding, and that is not what I am saying. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Guys, why don't you want it so bad? I mean, if you're uncomfortable with me talking here, I know you're uncomfortable with me -- I'd rather not talk at all.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0192	We're not disturbed, but you are.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0193	But there's one thing I'm very sorry for, which means you've removed almost the youngest and most promising congressman in the House, and here, you've made him talk in such a grave corruption.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0194	He explained it beautifully, saying it wasn't corruption.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0195	I'd be much happier if you didn't at least do that to this boy, this young friend, this brother. I mean, you're contaminating Turkey's future, shame on you! Look, you're saying there's great stability. It's true, there's stability. Do you know what stability it is? Look -- you've used my word -- what stability is there: you're giving the same company a dam contract, and you're giving the same company the iron line, and you're getting the same company -- I'm betting -- you're doing the project work. Come on, I've gone further, come out, answer me here, answer me! From there, energy will be like this, nuclear like this. Don't say that. My claims are serious, you will answer my claims.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0197	Don't say things you don't believe in! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0198	If you had the strength to answer, if you had the face, you would have answered my question. You don't have a man or a boy to answer what I say.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0199	He just answered in there. He just answered.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0200	You don't have one young man in you!
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0201	It's not the boy who does what you do! Isn't that rude?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0202	If you did, you'd have answered my motion...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0203	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0204	If you did, you'd be out here answering every single one of those questions I asked you, but you don't have any fucking answers! Sir, we need energy! Did we say we don't need energy? Of course we need energy. Well, sir, don't let a drop of water go to waste. Don't say that, of course not. Are we traitors? Of course we need energy, of course we need HES. I'm not asking you to do HES on every meter per minute, but you're going to plan the HES, considering the underground resources. Did we tell you to commit corruption if we told you to? Come on, guys! What is it, sir? When I say 744, it's 600 for VAT. We're not after the amount of money. Let the young man go out, and I give up all my claims, and there is one dollar's worth of corruption. I say, go out, and answer. When you go to the other side tomorrow, what difference does it make whether it's $630 million or $1? An orphan's right is an orphan's right, 630, 744, what's the difference? You're putting a person out here who doesn't even know what they're talking about.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0206	What do you mean he doesn't know about it? How dare you insult a congressman?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0207	Dear friends, it's not an insult to the congressman, it's another thing not to know the subject.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0208	You know everything?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0209	Now, Mr. Secretary will come out here and answer what I claim.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0210	The Minister will answer, and the MPs will answer.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0074par0211	Mr. Secretary will answer. I've filed a written question motion, and the young man will answer. I'm on the stand accusing him, and if he says no, he'll answer. But that's the nerve of you, go to the DA's office. That's where I report it to the prosecutors.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0075par0213	Go... go...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0076par0214	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0077par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0076par0216	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0077par0217	I want to fight back here now. Mr. Aytug has been picking on me, and I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0076par0218	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0077par0221	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a statement. We're a team. We're a group of 326 MPs, and we've never had any doubts about our absorption, and we've never worried about any of the work our fellow ministers and our fellow lawmakers have done, and we've never signed anything that couldn't be defended. So there's nothing abnormal about that that we as a group, we do as a party, anyone in the group can come out and answer about it for any job we do. I mean, there's no point in making any more noise, yelling at the podium. I've read you the article on the law. The relevant rule of law states how to regulate the matter, how to do it. If there were no such law here, without the provisions of the relevant legislation, and if there were to be different tasks done without the implementation of relevant legislation, then you would certainly state your claim, and you would carry out your duties as an opposition MP to the end, and I have no objection to that, but it is really not right to differentiate a current situation by shouting at the bench, and no one would be right more than the bench. I state here that the work we do is right, and all of the procedures are done within the framework of the relevant laws, and the matter 24 is very clear, Congressman, hopefully, if they look at it themselves, they'll see it.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0078par0225	I know that stuff very well.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0077par0226	Again, I'm saying that we're going to continue Turkey's blessed march, its great march, and we're going to move Turkey to much bigger, much better places. I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0079par0229	Thank you, Mr. Mush. In his favor, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0080par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the CHP group's motion. I salute your committee. Now, to be honest, when I heard the AK PARTY's defenses, statements, I was horrified. For one thing, if you're so sure of yourself, if you're so sure of this information, come and surprise us this time, a research commission will be set up. Let's go with representatives of our four political parties to investigate an issue that the entire People of Bingol are arguing about, which is seriously disturbing in all the People of Bingol, and then we'll make a report and present it here to the General Assembly. Then why do you object like this? What is your concern? If there's a situation in accordance with the material you're offering, if there's no corruption, come first, surprise us in a research motion. Mr. CHP MP, all of what our friend of ours has said is a state of opinion that has long been spoken in Bingol public and in terms of its accuracy, a serious public opinion is a state of mind. Now, is there any point in coming here and saying 630 billion, not 730 billion -- I don't know -- 16 percent, not 18 percent? Even if it's $1, which we're talking about, you'll end the problems of an entire Bingol city. Let's face it, it's 500 billion, and at 500 billion dollars, you'll convert Bingol to Paris. Instead of solving the problems of a city that has become an uninhabitable city, if you pour them into the pockets of a company, the opposition party will bring a motion to investigate, as well as a question motion. Last time, I told him on the council stand, Mr. Minister of Transport, thanks to the Minister of Transport, he probably doesn't think we're responding to the questions we've made about Bingol, so he thinks we're writing these proposals because we're bored, so he thinks we're giving him these motions to annoy him. There's no such thing. So, being a member of the government, being a member of the Cabinet, caring what the opposition has to say is within the duty and responsibility of a minister. We'd like today to have Mr. Secretary come in here with the numbers to prove that this is not the case. I'm signing off on all of the issues that our CHP MP friend has expressed here.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0081par0240	Mr. Baluken, a moment of your time. Mr. Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is the guest of our country's House of Representatives of Morocco, President of the Finance and Economic Development Commission Said Khairune, who has arrived at the General Assembly Hall, "Welcome to you," on behalf of our Parliament. I'm saying. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. Baluken. Go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0082par0250	I think the congressman has made quite a statement on this matter. I'd like to rephrase a few issues about the HES projects in Bingol, and about the thermal power plants that are being put in place today -- as well as outside the agenda. During the 30 years of conflict, the people of Bingol faced huge persecution policies, which went from burning the village to the bans, without burning the forest, to dehumanizing the region as a whole. Now a new hope for the lives of their children, for the lives of their children, has appeared in the people of Bingol, while the AKP's government has made the entire area of Bingley a waste. I mean, the deputy here has expressed some concerns about his energy needs. Look, we've been talking about this HESbook over and over again. Over 2,000 HES were made, over 2,000 HES planned. The amount of energy from all of these HES (all of them) is no more than the amount of energy that will be obtained by repairing only worn-out power lines. Then why do you insist on these projects that destroy nature, that oppose the public, that aim to dehumanize the region as a whole? You have to explain this. Look, there was a HES project in the village of Karliova Deepchay. Over the past months, the villagers there have walked there several times, saying that this HES project is a project to destroy all of our social, social lives as a whole. Why aren't you paying attention? Why don't you listen to that noise? Is there any credible moral, moral, moral defense to do the HES project to flood the graves of the village of Deepchay? I mean, if you have to put money into someone's pockets, a bunch of co-bags, a contractor, by watering down a village's spirituality, its spiritual world, where the opposition, of course, questions your attitude and calls on the House to do so. Not only in Deepchay, there are victims of these HES projects all over Bingol. Look, there was a human-made landslide disaster that resulted in the lack of control by the municipality of debris from the Hex project in Deepchay. For ten days, the province of Bingol was thirsty, and a whole city was thirsty for ten days, and that doesn't matter to you, but who's going to spill from that HES project, and you're more interested in it. Now, doesn't this whole thing we're saying about the graveyards require you to reassess these HES projects on your own? Look, there are new outposts now being built all over Bingley. The new police station is being built at the village cemetery in the village of Doğanevler, Youth District. During the basic digging process, bones came out all over the place. On the basis of disrespecting the bones, spiritual values of the ancestors of the people who lived in that village, they are scheduled to build a police station there. Is that acceptable? It's the same in the Caspian village, the same in the district of Sevensu. So when you do projects that don't care about people, that don't take people to their center, of course the public will stand in the way of that. It's the same in Solhan County. Let's go together to all the villages where you built the Kale Dam in Solhan district. Any village you go to, there's a great reaction to that dam project in the village, because you didn't associate it with the public, you didn't get the public's opinion, you didn't want to know what the people of Solhan think about this HES project. By the way, you've been looking into the pockets of a few contractors who make money, so you're bringing the processes against the people of Bingol to the front of the people of Bingol. Now, it's not enough, you're taking a new HES project to Masala Creek in Solhan. Ten days ago, I was in Solhan. Again, the people have a huge reaction to this project. The same is our Yayladere district. The Valley of Fairy Water is one of Turkey's most beautiful geographical regions, a paradise corner, a piece of paradise. As Munzur Valley killed these HES projects of the AKP's power in my class, you are now busy slaughtering the Valley of Fairy Water, one by one, with the HeES of the Valley of Fairy Water. Sevensu is the same value that HES projects in our district have carried for the people of Bingol, Hakeza in Youth County. You need to give up projects that kill farms and livestock, destroy villages' habitats, dehumanize that region as a whole, leave nothing to future generations about nature, about human life. You're doing HES all over Bingöl. Despite the people of Solhan, you're doing HES to Solhan. But there are villages in Solhan district that don't have electricity. There are still villages that don't have electricity in this era. Can such an understanding have such a sense of governance? Therefore, you should review your current position on these HES projects as a government. Look, there's a Gülbahar Dam Project that's gonna water all of the Plains of Bingol, it hasn't been done in 17 years, and you haven't made a irrigation dam that belongs to you in the last ten years, but if there's a million dollars in the contractors' pockets, you've turned it into a HES dump. Is it possible to accept such an approach? So what our congressman is saying here is that both the investigation of allegations of corruption and the attitude of the People of Bingol regarding the HES projects, which our friend, the MP, has expressed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] According to this, this research proposal must be supported in order to carry out HES planning. For the first time, I'd like to ask the AK PARTY group to vote in such a way -- by surprising us. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0083par0265	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against him is Izmir MP Ali Ashık. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0084par0269	I'm going to throw you a few words, too.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0085par0270	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the Republican People's Party proposal. Mr. Mersin wrote a very good script in his speech. If 10 per cent of this scenario is true, I am a lawyer -- the prosecutors will file a criminal complaint, and since there is no immunity for those who conduct these proceedings, the prosecutor will handcuff them and take them away. I mean, what's in the way of that?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0086par0272	There's no need for a brother prosecutor, for God's sake.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0085par0273	Dear friends, let's make a bridge in Turkey. When you say, "Let's fight." You do, and when you say let's make it special, it's against it. Let's build a hydroelectric plant. When you say "Hidroelic power plant," it's opposed. You're trying to privatize what you're doing, and you're being challenged. They're against everything, there's no such thing. You can't run a country like this. You know, I'm going to make a speech. You said, "I'm going to talk to you," and I'm going to tell you something, not talk about it. Izmir Metropolitan City has launched a subway tender, a 5km metro tender. Do you know how many years the subway contract hasn't run out?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0086par0275	How long has Ankara been going on?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0085par0276	They gave it to the lowest bidder...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0086par0277	We call it Ankara, Ankara.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0085par0278	...and they gave it to the bankrupt company. Izmir Metropolitan City doesn't know how to make a tender. Since you are well aware of these matters, do some consulting so that they can provide services for Izmir.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0086par0280	What about Ankara?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0085par0281	It's easy for him to come out here and talk, write scripts. If you're going to write much better scripts, there are a lot of TV shows. You write a good script, you get a producer, you get the script, you get the money.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0086par0282	What happened to Ankara?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0085par0283	I say we'll vote against you, respectfully greeting all of you, since we'll continue to work on the Petroleum Law, so that we don't have to keep the Assembly's agenda any longer.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0086par0285	What about Ankara?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0087par0286	Thank you, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0287	Mr. President... Republican People's Party Group... Here you go, Mr. Pine. Mr. President, the orator has accused Izmir Metropolitan City of incompetence. So, we have a say, he blamed Izmir Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0089par0292	Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0295	Mr. President, this is Congressman...
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0090par0296	Sing the Izmir anthem.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0297	We sing in marching, we've got ten fingers, but we've got nothing, we've got nothing to eat. We have all the skills, but no rights. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, MP Izmir has said that the Metropolitan Municipality is inept. Izmir Metropolitan City is not incompetent.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0091par0300	No talent, he said.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0092par0301	Name the subway.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0302	I'll tell you one thing: In the past few days, the discovery of the subway has demanded an increase in cost -- Mr. Ali Ashy -- eight months, eight months. The Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's discovery increases in Ankara Metropolitan Municipality are approved in three days, but Izmir Metropolitan Municipality is approved in eight months. I called the Prime Minister recently, and I said, "What happened?" I said, "Sir, three ministers are missing." I said, "What happened?" The minister's signature is missing. I called the next week, the 5 ministers are missing. Friends, the Prime Minister's office is not signed for two months. Well, isn't the Council of Ministers meeting every Monday or not?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0093par0304	It's not every Monday, every two weeks.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0305	Why don't they sign that discovery price? Consciously and methodically, they did not sign an increase in discovery by the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, and they kept it waiting for eight months. After eight months of waiting, it was signed, went to the presidency and signed by the President, went into effect.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0094par0306	Moses, ask for Ankara, Ankara Metro.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0307	That's it? Every time you send property inspectors, tax inspectors, all the inspectors to Izmir Metropolitan City City, you send them all away, they can't get them to work.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0095par0308	The subway hasn't been built in ten years.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0309	Hamza, you're underage, you're not old enough to answer me. You send me bigger ones. You don't have weight, caliber, or diameter. Behold, there is Moses Pine, and there is a man who has carried stones in Izmir for sixty years, and he wanders in the streets, and your diameter is not enough for me.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0095par0310	I've been traveling, too, for 30 years.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0088par0311	Send your father, send your father, send your ministers before me. Dear friends, therefore, Mr. Ali Ashlık has been unfair to İzmir Metropolitan Municipality and to the municipalities of the municipality. I'm going to complain to Mr. Ali Asşlı that I'm going to be in our district this weekend, and to Selçuk, who is his son-in-law, Tobag, to Menderes, to that region, I'm going to tell him that he's not protecting İzmir's rights, he's killing Izmir's rights. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0096par0315	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, we move to the part of the agenda with the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place, under the Law on Change in the Law of the Institutions of Higher Education. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with the Turkish Oil Law Bill and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 450 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0097par0344	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm speaking against the Oil Law Bill. Because this bill, in fact, will result in the complete removal of the public control of Turkey's limited oil, hydrocarbon resources, and, on the other hand, the result of the immediate exploitation of these limited resources by domestic and foreign companies, almost all of the public benefits that could be born from here, are being sent to the vaults of international and private companies. In this respect, we are fundamentally opposed to this bill. However, it may not be the most fundamental issue, since, in the end, the difference between the current law, perhaps, the fact that these laws are based on national interests, and the relationship between the former President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, which has led to the rejection of these provisions because they were not expressed in the form of this discrepancy, remains the main issue, as well as the current economic regime of Turkey, and those capitalist companies that play a key role in the current economic regime, and those that protect their interests. However, in a way, the possibility of the law being controlled and manipulated by the public, by the Parliament, by occupational institutions, in one way or another is extremely narrowed as it is now, and Turkey is about to lose control over its limited oil sources. What is the significance of this? If you say, Turkey can only afford 7 per cent of its annual oil supply from its own sources. It is even important that these resources can be preserved as reserves, that they can be controlled in the face of emergencies and unexpected disasters. (x) 450 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Turkey, on the other hand, is the 13th largest oil importer in the world today and is the world's 8th largest consumer who has not produced enough oil, so Turkey will maintain its economy essentially dependent on oil and locked on imports. But the critical issue here is the removal of control even on this limited resource. However, both the major oil producer countries of the world and the countries that consume oil are concerned about keeping these resources under public control; for example, Argentina has re-offerated some of the oil-producing companies that have been privatised and oil-producing in recent years. Russia allows foreign companies and private companies to save resources that were once 100 per cent under public control, while priorities are set by the state and control is always in the hands of the public. In the last decade, Venezuela has completely nationalized and nationalized oil sources. Under all these circumstances, capitalism doesn't necessarily predispose publicisation. In terms of AKP's economic policy understanding, privatisation appears to be the key to economics. But it's not even consistent with capitalist logic when we look at it as a whole. The second point is that what's not in the old law, and what's not in the law, is that the people in the places where oil comes out don't have any savings in producing, subtracting, consumption and production conditions. The issue, which has been passed roughly by the national interests here, is very important in Turkey, because the areas where this oil is extracted as a whole are mainly where Kurdish people live densely in the southeast of Turkey. However, these areas, unlike other oil-producing countries in the world, are where the poorest people of Turkey live under the most deprived conditions. People living in this area have never been able to benefit from the removal of this oil, the revenues from these resources have never returned to the region in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in development, not in any way, not in the sense of self-improvement, urban development, prosperity, education, and human needs. Thus, the concept of national interests, spoken here in cover, is also a deceptive concept. First of all, there's no mention of a national interest unless all resources provide the greatest benefit to the people who live where they are. Maybe there's a government interest at best. But when you call it the national interest, you have to ask which part of the nation, what elements of the nation? When we ask this question, there's no tangible benefit to the people who lived in the area around the land where this oil was produced, in fact, today. The law does not foresee any measures to change that. On the contrary, a total liberalisation, in the logic of liberalisation, liberalization of everything, in fact, in fact, if there are no new resources in very short time, there is no priority for the people of the region to quickly consume these resources, which are inevitable to be consumed within the next 15 or 20 years, to be absorbed from the region immediately and to be suggested to the people of the region. Just as in electricity production, just as in the regulation of water, saving resources in general, but the people who have these resources, the people who live there, above all, have a natural relationship with these resources themselves, are not getting any response from here, the Kurdish people. Therefore, there is no acceptable side to politics that deepens this inequality, that radicalizes discrimination, and that does not look out for nature. The third point, my dear friends, is that there is no public and private investment in the Oil Act and oil-related public and private sectors involved in a holistic energy policy. It is doubtful that Turkey has a master plan for energy production, a master plan for its priorities. In fact, in a large part of the world, the production of hydrocarbons, fossil fuels, fossil fuels, and energy is about to be abandoned, because the fact that this reveals that the world has come to an extremely critical stage in the production of greenhouse gases as a whole. Oil production and oil-based energy production are a worldwide threat. Thus, oil-based, oil-related development methods are also known to all who know that it does not provide sustainable development because it acts against humanity as a whole. But we don't know what kind of energy use plan the government has based on in what future, and what it's going to replace oil with. What I see is that what we see is that this useful and meaningful proposal for the law, which needs a very deep debate, is perhaps part of another long-term plan. It may be a step forward for new investments outside of Turkey as a partnership by attracting oil companies to Turkey. This has nothing to do with the production of energy, not with the re-production of money, but with Turkey's general energy needs. When we look at that framework in Turkey, it seems that at least there is no need in the law for the public today to express it in a very specific way because it cannot be communicated with national interests -- at least in the framework -- from the current structure, which makes it possible to conduct its control through legislation -- to the public in terms of saving oil derivatives and oil resources, to the entire society, to control its resources. But there is a need for a different law. The first is another model based on a fundamental energy policy that defines all of Turkey's energy needs and predictable production capacity in a holistic way, a sustainable and clean energy source and production of them, including oil at the latest in energy politics. This model, of course, will be a model of international oil monopolys that directly conflict with the interests of international oil-based capital groups, because water and other renewable resources -- including solar and wind energy -- a water policy, a water policy based on it -- requires a different order of international relations, a different order of international alliances. But what we see is that Turkey is in strategic agreements with all the world's central oil producer countries as consumers and investors in today's energy supply preferences. To hold Turkey as an energy transport corridor, to benefit from it, such alliances are being entered into, such an energy policy is being monitored, but not even in the middle term, but in the short term, we will see how much energy policy Turkey has against its inhabitants in Turkey. This policy, which starts with nuclear power plants, because of the energy transfer lines, is even aligning Turkey with international oil production and transport forces, will show us how it will become a massive source of pollution on the rivers, soil and air, which are the inevitable components of both nature and the environment and the air. The ability to deal with the consequences of all of this will cause too much human and societal problems to meet the expected short-term profits. In all countries ruled by governments who can see far away, whether the world is capitalist or not, these priorities are already being made, and oil is at the end of it. Turkey, however, is leaving the use of this limited resource to international oil companies, leaving the use of this limited resource to domestic-foreign capitalists, at least in the general sense of control of it, making it completely impossible to save on a relatively protected area in Turkey, at least in favor of capital's interest, by breaking the balance between public interest and capital's interests. We should, in fact, discuss this law as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and consider the arguments and objections of occupational organisations, which, from the moment this bill was introduced, have no direct links to the market and no direct links to the state, or even no connections. Because of this, we need to take: they are not dependent on the state, they are not thinking about the state, they are not thinking about the capital, they are not thinking about the capital, they are essentially looking at the problem of most of the society and the dignity and the ontology of their professional groups. What science shows them, and what they know as the basic benefit of society, are organizations that act on basic parameters, such as the well-being, health, development of society. The Association of Geophysical Engineers, Geological Engineers' Chamber, the Chamber of Oil Engineers and Oil Geologists' Association of Turkish Engineers and Architectures has also participated in commission work and expressed their views -- these views were not taken into the castle, they were basically ignored. So the conditions for foreign government companies to operate in oil have been lifted from the law. The strategical search and production activities brought provisions that could lead to the priorities of other states. It's hard to explain how easily a state can sacrifice its own monopoly. Turkey's Oil Association's rights in the current law have been revoked and the way for privatisation of this public company has been opened. But they advised not to do it. The search for this oil and natural gas did not take into account objections to public priorities in the search of these strategic raw materials. The proposals for the return of production sites to the public were not considered. In the taxation of revenues obtained by oil operations, oil companies' future tax payments have been limited rather than the current tax legislation provisions. As a whole, control of the Petroleum General Directorate has been eliminated. Now, therefore, the objections of the executives and spokesmen of these occupational institutions are actually consistent with our objections. There's a very simple reason for this: if you look at your people's direct interests from the point of view of your people, you'll express these objections, but if you don't object to the fact that the current economic order, the largest capitalists at the top, the bottom unemployed, is to maintain this pyramid in the same way, of course, as in this law. However, those who have established this law must still think that if at any moment of crisis, in any state of emergency, you've disposed of the only tool you have in this way to save on the public's behalf, in this way, you're not the only one who has a say in the future of the country, but the international corporations, their companies, they're the ones who have a profitable foundation. So that's what it means inevitably. If you're handing over a control tool to someone else, giving up control here, you're benefiting the public from handing over control of this area. You won't get that benefit for the public, but rich capitalist companies might benefit from it. Therefore, we believe that the withdrawal of this bill, in the case of law enforcement, the limited oil production of Turkey, will soon be absorbed into its own limited supply, and it will be deprived of actually the suffocation of oil, the contaminated air, and a sustainable energy policy that has yet to be carried out. That's why we're against this bill, and we want you to be against it. Good day, goodbye.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0098par0361	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0099par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the National Party of Action for Turkish Oil Bill 450 rows under discussion. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, lawmakers, it is not possible for us to consider the renovation of the Oil Law on our agenda as independent of the country's energy outlook and strategies. We're going on a tour of the macro plan, which has ensured better understanding of the subject and reaching the right policies. I'd like to point out in advance that we have a strategic perspective that sees the issue of energy as a matter of national support, the basis of my sincere insights and constructive criticism that I'm going to share with you. In our country, our country's energy demand is rapidly increasing as we study the growing energy demand. The energy supply security issue that we can sum up in time as a safe and uninterrupted welcome to our country with reasonable costs and conditions for continuing our prosperity and economic development is vital for the future of our country. We've stated that our energy demand is increasing very quickly. And how will that demand be met? According to the most cautious estimates, he only needs an investment of $150 billion in the electricity sector until 2023, which is what officials say. Increased interest in the sector of domestic and foreign investors, the construction of public-private business companies and existing investments without delay should be among our priorities in this regard. Speaking of which, the ministry promised that the first nuclear power plant would come online in 2019. Where are we with the construction of the first power plant that was given to the Russians? Is that promise still valid? When we consider high external dependence on energy, we see that we import almost three quarters of our energy needs. We also know that oil and natural gas are over 90 percent of our dependency on the outside. It's obvious that our electricity supply security is also threatened because of our natural gas addiction when half of our electricity production is kept in mind that it's covered by natural gas. Our energy import bill is an important part of our total import and current deficit. The best, clear evidence, current evidence that high levels of external dependence limit our national power in foreign policy is the government's hunger for Syria. Although he intended to be more active in the civil war in Syria, with other factors, he was ridiculed by columnists who were unable to make such an attempt to visit our northern neighbor, whose gas we met most of our needs. It simply means that the plans to make our country a regional force without taking serious steps towards energy supply security will be no more than a raw dream. In this framework, we need to bring our domestic and renewable resources into our economy, especially hydroelectric and coal. Moreover, it is imperative that we adopt it as a state policy to seek resources and to accelerate our production activities abroad and abroad with our public and private sector companies that we will strengthen. In this regard, I feel the need to reiterate the caution that our national interests should be considered as we rearrange our Oil Law. We need to quickly focus on the search for rock oil and gas, offshore search and production, in addition to conventional, oil, natural gas searches through our public companies and their partnerships. It's not like we don't hear some happy news in that direction. However, what needs to be done should encourage us not to boast but to work harder, to be more careful. Our national company must be reorganised, if necessary, in a vertically integrated way, to speed up operations such as the tender, foreign investment, financing, but not to interfere with public control. We are concerned that our country is losing serious time in Eurasian geography as we follow the government's power and watch integrated and powerful energy companies become the most important political lever of the country's leaders. We know that Turkey's resources are big enough to support being more active on this issue. The need is political determination and leadership. We've summarized our problems with energy supply. So, how do we use energy? Unfortunately, the fact that we can't use the energy we're getting with great material sacrifices is another factor that worries us. Our energy density is very high compared to the OECD countries we pride ourselves on being members of. So when we consume the same amount of energy, we can produce lower added value than the developed economies. We're behind on the launch of information and technology. I want to give you a very serious warning from this point: our country's energy is intense, but its income is on the verge of sinking into low industrial processes and low export revenues. We face the threat of becoming this country, which is nothing more than the workshop of the middle-developed and rich world. The alarming statistics of economic growth are actually the bells of danger that I'm pointing out here. We must never forget that our performance against the threshold of knowledge and technology that we must overcome will also determine the future of our energy consumption. Therefore, serious projects in our industry to ensure that the transformation of low-energy and high-increment value production models is carried out and that energy efficiency is increased in all areas should be implemented without delay. The unique geography of our country offers itself geostrategically serious opportunities. On the one hand, it is possible that Central Asia, Caspian and the Middle East, with 70 per cent of the known oil and natural gas reserves, play a serious role in the energy trade of our neighbouring country, which is the largest energy consumer on the other hand, the Western. However, we're concerned that we haven't been getting any serious distance lately. It is disappointing to have some of the cross-border projects that are so hopeful that they have to be delayed, dropped, or changed. The state of the Nabucco Project, which we have been listening to stories about for a long time. Despite all the rhetoric, Ceyhan still hasn't been built into an energy center. On the other hand, wrong foreign policies have damaged our country in terms of energy. The frustration of the Armenian expansion adventure, which has no positive results and may have upset our Azerbaijan brothers, is not limited to the diplomatic arena, and it is no longer a secret that our energy costs have increased. In the same way, the negative impact of failures, such as the results of the recent ups and downs and Annan Plan vote in Cyprus, is not only a black stain on our diplomatic report card; EU membership is sadly stuck in the race to determine the status of the Eastern Mediterranean (East Mediterranean) with the delay of its dreams, such as being in the eye of the West. The Greek Cypriots, who deal with countries such as Israel, Lebanon, Egypt, have found the courage to seize all of the island's natural gas and oil wealth, taking advantage of the government's sleep and, unfortunately, have travelled further. Israel and the Greek Cypriot region are developing joint energy projects in the Eastern Mediterranean, and moreover, their projects are competing with our country's projects on gas supplies to world markets. We are trying to strike a goal out of our castle by making quick deals with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus because we are delayed by seismic ships and our government cannot assess historical opportunities in this direction. It is truly sad for us, for the Republic of Turkey, to lose crucial time and position. The dissertation of oil and natural gas discovered in Kurdish regional administration in northern Iraq, which is shaken by the wind of openings, is deeply processed that the dissertation of our nation's broken pride will be carried through Turkey and earned a few pennies in this way. However, there is no mention of the impact of such initiatives on the integrity of Iraq (Iraq) or on relations with the central government or on the debate of the Constitution of Iraq. One minister speaks from the territorial integrity of Iraq, another says, "We will deliver the KYB oil to the world market." He boasts about it. As our energy minister wins the praise of Barzani, he becomes the target of Maliki. He can't find a place to land in Iraq on his plane, so he goes down to Kayseri. The answer to these questions must be given clearly and clearly: Should the government consider whether it will serve the interests of our country, or if it will be served by a broken Iraqi. What does he think about that? Is there a plan in our country to make oil and gas rich behind the so-called expansion and peace policies? Will Turkey be a mother to the state of Kurdistan, which will be torn out of Iraq, in the form of oil and gas pipelines? With persecution, the energy issue is a matter of national support and should be considered part of national security. In this regard, I urge all concerned to focus, not on pure economic interests, but on a strategic perspective, on the perception of state policy. In this bill, it may be true that the deficiencies in the previous law have been resolved. There's no explanation for the passing of time and the government's view of the event. For example, I'd like to state that the 26th article covers issues related to encouragement. In Article 26 I ask clearly and clearly, we ask in the Commission, because the answer is obvious, I ask you one more time in public: the 26th article includes incentives. The incentives for investments to be made by the right-of-command holders are determined by the Council of Ministers, he says. The Council of Ministers has already determined the incentives. So I'd like to say that the purpose of putting this sentence here is that we, many of the AKP members of the Commission, have difficulty understanding the text when we look at it. I'm telling you clearly and clearly, I've asked the Minister: Mr. Minister, if I may ask you one thing: If this sentence had not been put here, would you not have used these incentives as an executive unit as the Council of Ministers? Because that's the law that appeals to the international investor. Minister, you're the minister, and I'm asking you: won't the Council of Ministers take advantage of this when they're setting up incentives? He'll be useful. When you put this in here, I'll look for something, I'll look for ulterior motives... I don't want to express it here, I'll come and tell you if anyone's curious about the government. When I showed it to a citizen, what would you be doing here? When we said, "You're either looking for an ulterior motive -- like I said," or something like that. I'll tell you that, but it's a shame, it's a sin. In these reports, there is no need for the speech of fellow members of the ruling party to speak. There is no need, Mr. Minister. I wish Mr. Secretary were here so I could express him. I've ordered these reports today. Now, when you interpret it that way, you jump when we call it intentional. A minister, who says there's no difference between this being here and not being here, wishes it would be here. Then I can't talk about good faith. Government work is not illegitimate. You will explain his motive to me. He says, "He asked for a ministry in Palestine, the Ministry of Economics." Is the Ministry of Economics another country's Ministry of Economics? Mr. Zafer was just here, and I would have asked him if I had seen him for what purpose? I'm also very concerned about whether they really want it or not, let me be clear. As a result of the decision of the incentive Council of Ministers, you can also place additional provisions there if you need them. But it's a continuation of the work that's been done before. I want to express it. The bill calls for incentives to invest in investments by the owners of Petrol. It already determines these incentives -- I've just expressed them. You're shooting a fine-tuned thing. There's no such thing. If you say so, there's no need. The other thing is, you're destroying an institution like Turkey's Oil Anonymous. Such an institution needs Turkey, always needs it. Now, we have seen what Cyprus has become, and who you need, and you have seen it. What did you guys do as executives? You walked right into it. Now, then, what are we thinking? Here, as I've just said in my speech, we shouldn't view the energy issue as just the economic issues of the country, economic interests. I'd like to state that it's a matter of national support, and I'd like to state that it's part of national security. We've written a number of issues here in opposition, and we can explain them in very detail, but what's at the heart of our opposition -- we've made it clear here -- was a matter of TPAO. You're destroying this institution, you're ending this institution. Now, it's really, what, it's not right to do something like that. You realized that some institutions would be needed for the country in the 2009 crisis of the Zaraat Bank, the People's Bank. That's going to be needed in hynihad one day. You couldn't sell them, then. I'm glad we didn't sell it. You've become able to pray. So I don't think it means anything to disband every institution, to destroy every institution, to destroy every institution that was created before you. For these reasons, we have already written our view of the bill in opposition. Ben, thank you for listening to me. I pay my respects to the High Council. Thank you again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0100par0390	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Umit Özgükmiş. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozgim.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0101par0394	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Oil Law bill, which is being discussed. I salute the General Assembly. Again, it's one of the most important laws we've discussed here. We've recently discussed the Power Market Law, and now we're negotiating the oil law. A few years ago, a book was published, titled: Football was never just football. It was a book that revealed football's relationship with the state, its contractual relations, its interests. The first thing that comes to my mind when this law comes is that oil isn't just oil, oil is not just an energy raw material, it's not just a meta; it's oil, it's an issue in the conjuncture today, it's an energy source that affects international relations, it's an issue that affects national security. That's why we're saying the same thing we said today when the electric market came. Back to public resources in Turkey, back to public resources in Turkey, back to any law that was supposed to exist in Turkey -- which I assume would exist in the future -- that oil would be run by national institutions and brought to serve the interests of Turkey; all kinds of laws were wrong, because we said that we would support the right law as a result of the support we would give there, the right law that we would give to our children. Unfortunately, today's oil law comes as a law imposed by international monopoly, which does not serve Turkey's national interests. It affects us economically, because oil is one of the main causes of the current deficit, the foreign trade deficit, and the current deficit that triggers it. Dear friends, when the AKP came to power in 2002, our current deficit was $626 million, $47 billion at the end of 2012. Of course, it's said that sometimes when you're thrown out of there, it's said, "Well, do you also talk about non-nationals?" The GDP has also grown. • In the growth of the illegitimate national product, the increase of the national income per capita to 10,000 dollars per person or the reduction of the current deficit a few months ago, some account changes have been made, although serial changes have been made, but still the current has come to 7.3 per cent of the domestic product in 2002, at the end of 2012. In fact, it was about 10 percent, but it was down to 7.3 percent due to the change in the number of domestic revenues made in inflation a while ago, or the change in the GDP per person, or the change in account, until six months ago, about 10 percent. Cari's open danger continues to grow, but Turkey's economy is also trying to show daily sunlight. Look, a few days ago, in front of the press, the IMF debt was closed by the hand of our government minister in charge of the economy. Some institutions have started to show it as a wedding, a holiday, as if it were a wedding, as if it were an overselling press, as well as flattery, posting posters on Ankara's streets and billboards. Dear friends, total money paid to the IMF during the ten-year period of AKP power, total debt, debt closed, $23.5 billion. Aside from Turkey's total debt, only $38 billion was privatised during that time. Turkey's values have been sold, its ports sold, its banks sold, its factories sold, financial institutions sold.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0102par0402	The railroads have been sold.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0101par0403	The railroads were sold to strangers, sold to glasses, sold to glasses, Fahri Kuz Optical strangers, cinemas sold to strangers. In exchange for selling $38 billion to a stranger, a $23.5 billion IMF debt is not to be boasted of. There's another thing, which is: Turkey's total external debt was 130 billion dollars in 2002 when the AKP came to power, up to $330 billion at the end of 2012. Dear friends, from 130 billion to $337 billion in debt. In this total debt, it does not take pride in paying the debt of the 23.5 billion IMF (IMF). There's another danger, it's the private sector's debt. So the public was increasingly in debt, but Turkey kept the foreign currency down under pressure, allowing the private sector to borrow from the outside. Again, in 2002, the private sector's external debt rose from 183 billion dollars to $226 billion in 2012, up $43 billion. More importantly and more dangerous -- I mean, the private sector may have external debt, but in exchange for its external debt, they may have assets, but -- the difference between assets and obligations, called a foreign currency position deficit, has brought Turkey's economy on its back. Today, the difference between the private sector's foreign currency deficit, their assets, their assets, or their exports, is 126 billion dollars, and in the coming days, any way, due to a bomb explosion, a series of economic problems, if a little increase in the Turkish economy, the departure of the Turkish economy would be much worse than the crisis in 2001. The government's confession that the economy has already gone bad, the AKP's confession that last night was to be brought here by a small tax payment of money from abroad, such as, in short, what we call the peace of existence. Wherever you bring it, wherever you take it... Where did that source come from, how did it come about? Drug money or PKK money?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0103par0407	Black money?
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0101par0408	Black money? Whatever happens, pay 2 percent, bring it here. This is the result of the bankruptcy of the economy itself being confessed by the government, dear friends. I said it wasn't just oil. I said it was the beginning of my speech. Turkey is a very fragile structure about energy and especially oil, the largest source of energy, and it's going through a very fragile structure. About 47 percent of all the oil reserves in the world are in the Middle East. If we take North Africa and Asia to that, we get 70 percent. Turkey over such a strategic region. There's oil in the Middle East. From time to time, this oil richness in the Middle East has watered the mouths of other countries, and it looks like it's great luck, but when you look at the last century -- in fact, it's more than that -- for the Middle East countries, for the people living in the Middle East, for the children of Middle East. Dear friends, recently, with Turkey's help to seize the richest oil deposits in the region that water the world's international monopoly, international forces, and imperialists, there is no need to explain for long today the point of Iraq's arrival. Western imperialists, international monopoly and his collaborators in Iraq have repeatedly told a lie, saying: "There are weapons of mass destruction and because of weapons of mass destruction, we will go there and make peace. We all see very clearly how peace is established in Iraq today and where peace will come from now on. Today, the same scenario is played in Syria with a thousand lies. Until yesterday, Turkey and Syria, which had a policy of zero problems, again, are in an actual war today by telling a thousand lies to the Turkish people. Westerners and Americans have a history of interfering with such countries, especially by lying about such matters, by creating lies. Look, there's a Tonkin Bay Expedition, a Tonkin Bay issue. In 1964, at the time when the problems between South Vietnam and North Vietnam would be resolved by consensus by the international community, the United States of America lied to the public because it was not in the interest of the United States of America, it needed to start a war there. First, he sent in a small ship to spy on an unarmed ship, and because it entered the landwaters of North Korea, it was fired from afar by North Korean armed forces protecting its own landwaters, and the ship took several hits and went out of the black water. At the same time, the entire world's press began to write about how the United States of America was attacked, burned by North Vietnamese forces in the international waters of its ships, how the ship was sunk, how the people in it were brutally slaughtered. The captain of the ship sent a message to the United States of America, saying, "O people, the United States, my state, my elders, my public, what do you say? The day-to-day sunshine, the weather here is good. We're traveling, we're fine. Even though he said so, it didn't appear in the world's press, and years later, all of this came out. Today, Assad is slaughtering the people in Syria. The lie, again, is one of the games played by former Western imperialists and is a complete lie. Today, the struggle in Syria is aimed at the return of the United States to Israel-based politics, international politics, Middle Eastern politics, and the opening of Israel's oil roads. And there's a great shortsightedness here -- and I told you in my earlier incomplete speech -- that the result of an unpredictable, unpredictability, unpredictability of Foreign Minister putting Turkey into a swamp like this, dear friends. And another factor is the Soros factor. The problem here cannot be correctly understood without careful research in the Soviet Union, Caucasus, Turkey, and the Middle East. There were pink revolutions in Georgia, in Ukraine, under Soros. There were riots in Libya, Algeria, and Soros came out from under it. Look, four or five years ago Soros came to Turkey. The fine gentlemen of Turkey paid serious money to listen to the fine gentlemen of Istanbul, Soros. They went to lunch with him. If I didn't have it wrong, they gave me $1,500, and Soros said something at that dinner, at lunch, he said: "Dear friends, I'm an idealist." I spend my fortune on my ideals and spent $8 billion in Turkey in the last five years. How can a Hungarian-born American Jew -- I never use ethnic structure here -- just to say his ideals -- have an ideal in Turkey in 2001 that Turkey went all the way to the U.S. to borrow $1.5 billion every year in Turkey? It had to be moved around; the press, the television, the NGOs had to go over it; the visible and deep government would have to go over it. What ideals did he spend about $1 billion,600 million a year on in Turkey, Soros? One man came out, the president of the Open Society Institute, and he said, "I'm taking the $2 million." So, who was taking the remaining $1 billion,598 million? What press organizations, what NGOs, and the press organizations that made that blackout in Syria today, who repeatedly told those Turkish people the lies there, where they tried to make their resistance to imperialism seem like a massacre? Did they take that money for today? Dear friends, Turkey is playing a very dangerous game on oil. There's a Chinese proverb that says, "If you don't have the technology in this area, if you don't have the technology for war, if you don't have the funding, if you don't have enough, then you don't want to leave your own mess and try to get into other country's internal affairs, and then when the wind turns, that umbrella will get into your head. Now there's another dangerous game, which is that the state of the Republic of Turkey is smuggling oil in Iraq, running oil. It is a sovereign state, a region north of the Iraqi state, a municipality of local government. Call it an autonomous zone, but the Central Iraqi government is trying to bypass the Iraqi state, buying oil from the northern Iraqi local administration, bringing it and selling it to Mersin. The imperialists here use Turkey as a tong and set up a three-pronged goal: One: The future is beginning to strengthen the economy of the northern Iraqi region, which will declare its independence. Second: Turkey disrupts its relations with the Iraqi state and brings it to a standstill. Third: A court is being formed in a region where Turkey will be given autonomy in the coming process. If you can buy oil by bypassing the central state there today, you'll be alone in the international community when those there sell the oil in the region that will be autonomous in the southeast tomorrow. Now, in a situation like this, there's an oil law. We tried so hard to get this oil law right. We've made a lot of motions, especially to get a national oil bill out, but we haven't. This oil law, however it came from, is a law that has been created to eliminate the power of the Turkish Petroleum Association, especially the international monopoly, to come and settle here and -- again in quotes, for history, to highlight -- to use the future oil to use international monopolys, and to be absolutely and absolutely rejected, or to be rejected. Dear friends, look, public or private oil companies in the world are in vertical integration, in vertical construction. I mean, it's the organizations that are organized and make a lot of big profits in the process, starting from the well to the pump. Only in Saudi Arabia, a company with a public weight is worth $1 billion a day, a daily profit and a vertical organisation. Again, in the same way, Russia's Gazprom is a vertical-organized structure that has been completely out of the well and into the pump, and its annual profit is over 40 billion dollars. We have distributed the existing vertical organisation, Turkey's Petroleums Anonymous Partnership with past laws. Now, we're trying to make the existing part of the remaining part equal to foreign companies by eliminating public privilege. In our current law, it says that according to the existing Petroleum Law, the duration of the operating licenses is 40 years. Forty years later, it is transferred to TPAO. Now, there's an investment in an oil company that's been running for 40 years, there's a well, there's this, there's this. With very little investment, with very little resources, these wells will be restarted, while the current law says: "No, the public property of TPAO has been eliminated, positive discrimination has been eliminated. Forty years later, he bids like any other company, and if he wins, he runs it. Otherwise, foreign companies can buy oil companies that have been running for 40 years. ▪ Dear friends, TPAO is a company that uses public money and operates in chain of command. How can he compete with the private sector with public money? There's been talk of something since we were kids: Americans came in their time, put concrete on the oil wells in the south. When oil rose to over $100 today, when those oil wells were opened in the coming period, TPAO would have to be public property there again, public privilege again, but unfortunately they don't exist in that law either. The main goal in this law is to eliminate TPAO (TPAO)'s privilege, make TPAO (TPAO) a private company, and turn Turkey's structure into an oil-seeking structure. It's completely out of our national interest. What exists is to open our existing oils to international monopoly. I say we vote against this law for him, and I pay my respects again.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0104par0429	Thank you, Mr. Ozgim. On behalf of the person, Heromarash MP Durdu Özbolat. Here you go, Mr. Ozbolat.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0105par0433	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the Turkish Oil Law bill. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, since the first years of the republic, Turkey has adopted statehood in oil, but as of the 1950s, our country has been handed over to liberal oil policies. Turkey's oil policy has been turned into a puzzle board for many years, and as with all other energy sectors, it has not been able to get out of the way of international capital. After the 2001 crisis, new changes were made to the market hand-to-hand operation of the energy sector, which complement each other and are part of a whole, divided into activities, oil activities and market activities. With the impositions of oil monopoly, the IMF and the World Bank, market activities are also organised by separate laws. In 2001, the Law on Natural Gas Market No. 4646 and the Law on Oil Market No. 5015 were adopted on 20/12/2003, and the sector's activities were removed from the scope of Law 6326. The search, which is part of Petroleum Law 6326, has also been implemented under the Turkish Oil Law 5574. You will recall that four articles of the latest arrangement were vetoed by President Ahmet Necdet Sezer against national interests, but the bill was accepted against all negatives. Now, after six years, the government brings up a new Oil Law bill that violates public interest and national interests. This bill undermines the state-run state-owned Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership, bringing new regulations in line with the interests of oil monopoly and domestic and foreign capital. Under the bill, restrictions imposed on foreign governments and companies are being lifted and foreign companies are being opened up. At the same time, new provisions against Turkey's interests were included, such as sending oil abroad without constraint, tax-free transfer of foreign capital and economic values, and adequate measurement of financial power in giving it a search license alone. Over the past year, 68.4 per cent of Turkey's energy consumption has been covered by imports and has been paid $6.1 billion for imports. It is estimated that in the coming years there will be an increase in demand for oil and natural gas and in 2020, almost all of Turkey's demand for oil today will be met by import. Turkey's total need for crude oil has yet to reach 10 per cent of domestic production. Due to the completion of the economic lifespans of existing oil fields and the lack of new discoveries, our oil production is becoming increasingly low. With the level of production today and the absence of new fields, in about 18 years, the productionable oil reserves will be completely exhausted. Oil and natural gas, one of the important sources of energy our country needs, must first be provided from our own resources. It is clear that by reducing external dependency in oil, the only way to satisfy the need from our natural resources as much as possible is by increasing oil-seeking activities and discovering new fields and producing them. In this sense, the Oil Law Bill, which determines the legal framework of the country's raw oil and gas search-and-producing policies, which determines the legal framework of political preferences for the assessment of resources, is not capable of responding to these requirements. Dear friends, the purpose of the law remains unknown, according to what binding decisions and provisions, which have been determined to allow oil resources to be searched, developed, and produced in a rapid, continuous and effective way, in accordance with national interests. Article 4 of the existing law (1) had the criteria for the demand for oil rights in accordance with national interests. This measure is not included in the 7th article of the next draft. These regulations eliminate public benefit, social interest in oil rights demands. The strategic, economic and technical basis of interest does not exist in this bill, just as there is no rule to solidify national interest. It seems that in order to soften the criticism of the bill, the concept of national interest has been attached, and the concept is not filled, and the way for it to become abstract and invalid. For example, the protection of the national interest of Law No. 6326 has been lifted. It has not been satisfied, nor has it been passed that it is necessary for foreigners to operate in oil activities, to acquire property and to establish a facility under the permission of the Council of Ministers. Thus, the restrictions imposed on the sovereignty of foreign states and companies on a highly strategic issue are requested to be removed. This arrangement provides a significant advantage for international oil monopoly. Dear friends, the Association of Turkish Oil Anonymous is now one of the most successful oil-seeking companies in the world. He is the target of foreign oil cartels with successful search and production efforts both at home and abroad. However, in the process, companies that provide income for TPAO's investments were unfortunately taken away from him as part of privatisation or privatisation. The partnership activities of TPAO, one of Turkey's most important strategic institutions, have been limited over time, despite its precedents in law and law enforcement, it has been forced to lose revenue-making partnerships and institutions. The new Oil Law bill and public benefit are being waived and the remaining key rights of TPAO are being taken from you. This is the final step in privatizing TPAO. "The right to get permission, search and business registration on behalf of the state belongs to the Anonym Partnership of Turkish Oil on behalf of the state." His sentence was not included in the bill. This arrangement eliminates an important institution that will ensure the creation and implementation of national energy policies. Again, the exclusion of exports and restrictions on the need for the country in Article 13 of the existing law (1) have been cancelled and is not included in the bill. Thus, with the new law, oil companies were allowed to export all the raw oil and natural gas they produced in our country, under the obligation to separate the amount for the country's needs. Dear friends, the bill on our agenda is redesigning Turkey's oil policy according to the needs of monopoly and leaving it at the mercy of the market. And by stressing that fact here, I wish this law to our country, to our nation, to the best of its kind.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0106par0450	Thank you, Mr. Ozbolat. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0107par0454	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our government on the Turkish Oil Law bill that I salute your delegation with respect and love. Of course, for a long time, this bill had actually been passed to the Council of Ministers, which had been on the agenda of the public, and was passed to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey last December to be legalized by our government. On the relevant commission, Mr. Commissioner, and with his esteemed members, the General Board has been brought to you. Of course, oil is an important phenomenon. It's still an important energy source in the world that is still the most important part of energy sources along with natural gas by 2050 and is set up to supply more than 50 percent of them. Is there, or is there, or is there, enough -- of course, we'll talk about it in length when the bill is discussed, but there's one important thing that I want to draw your attention to -- especially not an organizational law by TPAO. The 136 article is a self-designed and self-designed bill concerning the reduction of the law from 135-136 articles to 29 articles, along with market laws, from search to production, from transmission to distribution. Of course, we need to give more room for search activities in Turkey. With international capital, this is a proposal to further increase the work that TPAO is led by TPAO, assuming that around 70 per cent of license spaces are covered by TPAO. As in mining, as in other segments of the energy sector, there will be a bill that we open up, so to speak, for those of us who have separated the pursers, but who will actually operate. Hopefully, when the law is passed, there'll be a structure that will make more jobs easier, especially for serious investors, investors who will fund this job. Of course, when this law came out, there were four basic clauses, especially in 2007, that would be based on the veto of the President. You remember, it was a matter of not being included in the declaration of national interests. Dear friends, national interests are guaranteed by the Constitution, and unlike that, you can't make an arrangement. Besides, our AK PARTI governments have done business with our national interests in all the wills this country has run so far. Now that we've been assured of the Constitution, and if it doesn't matter, we've said, "This is the word of the nation." So we've shown that this article, which was called veto motive in 2007, would not have noticed this time. You know, one of them was that the state stock was related to the price of wells instead of the market price, depending on the current situation and in a further way. Given each of these, we are now compiling the regulations on market prices into this bill. At the same time, we have not yet included in this bill the savings of 50 per cent of oil related to the state's share in the state's private administration. It may be that if the country needs to be met, with the power that we have now given the Council of Ministers, we have also compiled a study of oil, which is primarily based on the complete fulfillment of the country's needs. Dear friends, Turkey currently has an annual consumption of energy around 119 million tons of equivalent oil, and there is a proportion of oil imports that vary from 20 per cent to 22 per cent of our imports to around 22, but one of the things we need to stress is that in 2012, oil, natural gas, imported coal, 36 billion dollars of all of these energy sources, which are more than half of which are all used in transportation and public transportation vehicles. AK PARTY governments have now increased to around 17 million vehicles, which are around 7 million before the start of business. So, almost a million vehicles are in service every year. The oil products they use are entirely included in this number of imports. The last time we arrived, the growth rate of power installed in the energy sector in 2012 was also much higher than most of the European Union member states, and even the sector, which shrinked around 20 per cent, grew around 5.2 per cent in Turkey. Our growth in power has also been around 8.1 percent. And what we've come up with in natural gas is the annual consumption of around 45 billion cubic metres. We want them to be used in places where the factors related to electricity, industry, and the environment are important, rather than in places where electricity is produced. So how much are they subtracted in Turkey? We have about one-to-forty natural gas production. That's very, very few. In particular, we have to say that the oil that we use in total around 9% of the percentages were extracted in Turkey. We're heading towards a point where there are 48-49 thousand barrels of daily consumption. These are necessary studies, but not enough work. So, I'm going to stop talking about the general right now here, especially when we move on to materials, to give more time to the question-and-answer part -- actually these parts of the oil and gas exploration that have a lot of branches. I salute your committee with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0108par0464	Thank you, Mr. Star. On behalf of his personal behalf, Mr. Bursa MP Mustafa Ozturk... Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0109par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the oil law. I salute you all. When we look at our country's neighbouring geography, we see that there is an important portion of the world's total oil reserves. But not like countries with rich oil deposits like Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Syria. And that's because of the geological structure of our country, the geographical structure. But of course, it's important to best assess our potential, contribute to the maximum economy, and contribute to the growth of our country. Our country's economy is growing in this sense, and so is its prosperity. The number of automobiles -- Mr. Secretary -- has just mentioned -- has increased about 2.5 times in the last ten years. With the growth of industry, the need for oil is increasing. Our country's dependence on oil in this sense is 92 percent, 98 percent on natural gas. In 2012, we imported $60 billion in energy. So it's very important for the country's strategies and the country's economy to reduce our dependency on the outside. As a strong Turkey with a large economy, we have to evaluate our underground and above-ground resources in the most efficient way to be part of global forces. Thus, despite growing production in recent years, the need for upgrades to the Oil Act to increase the capacity of oil production, to reduce our dependence and imports that we still depend on. However, this law has been in effect since 1954. The developing conditions, the sector's expectations, the rising needs, reveal our insistence on focusing on oil and our best assessment of what exists. In 2001, the price of oil barrels was around $24, today at $110. Fortunately, oil prices weren't $110 in 2001. The reason is that if we didn't borrow from 500 million IMFs, we would have reached the point where we couldn't pay the salaries of government officials, pensions of our pensions, so that we can all determine from here how much more the crisis would contribute to our country. To the point of our country's arrival... a few weeks ago, the construction of Istanbul's third airport was tendered to about 26 billion euros, including the VAT. With investments, it will go up to about 36 billion euros. The more experienced, more competitive, transparent, safe, more attractive environment in accordance with the needs of the industry and industry, we aim to increase our local hydrocarbon resources by this law. When I look at it from the beginning, we see that foreign companies are involved in oil extraction and production. The reason for this is knowledge, technical competence and capital. I'm very happy to see that our local companies are actively engaged in this area today. I'd like to say that today, 33 of 68 companies are native and 35 of them are foreign. This shows how much the industry has grown, how our local companies have contributed to this issue. When we look at it again, we're showing a significant 8% growth in energy. This needs to be covered. And some of that, as I mentioned earlier, will be provided by our underground resources. I'll give you a couple more numbers: in the last decade, new discoveries and production improvements, we've been given 26.8 million tons of crude oil-producing reserves. The state income from the sector is around 1.2 billion dollars in 2012. In fact, when we look at this, it's about 35 billion U.S. dollars per decade, and 70 percent of our oil production is made by TPAO. In recent years, we have seen seismic research in our seas, particularly underestimated, and we are getting good results from it. This, in fact, reveals the way we look at oil, natural gas, and it's been increased by 10 times, studies about the sea. Another issue, specifically, is that we've been focusing on research like data -- seismic research, like 2B and 3B, which we've never been able to focus on, which shows the oil potential better, that the number of wells opened during the decade has increased by six times; we've raised the investment resources of TPAO from 50 million to a billion dollars more. What does that mean? More investment means more production. This is a serious contribution to the country's economy. If we hadn't invested these investments in this growing economy, in exchange for Turkey's growing strength, we wouldn't have been able to meet this need in supply-to-request balance, and we'd be more dependent on the outside. Again, we know that in the last ten years, natural gas production has been doubled, to meet our growing need for natural gas, which is very little... Hopefully with these research, we'll increase the natural gas and reduce the dependency on the outside. When I look at ten years, the amount of investment has been increased 13 times. As I mentioned earlier, we're proud to see the private sector's share growing in that direction. This law, in fact -- it was discussed a lot in the commission -- does not weaken TPAO, but does contain substances at the point of protecting the rights of TPAO. As long as the production of the business licenses owned by TPAO will continue, we add the provisions for TPAO will be kept in the contract of TPAO, where, again, the privilege of TPAO will continue. It is still in this law that the eight-to-eightths of the oil we produce must be paid as a state share, the price of the well in calculating the state's share, the market price in raw oil, and the share in natural gas is increased in favour of the state, based on the price of wholesale sale. While a certain percentage of the produced oil can be separated from the country's needs, the bill authorises the Council of Ministers to allow all the oil produced to be divided into the country's needs. Which comes out as a reason for the law that's been annulled. Another thing is, we're bringing in a license based on a new pad, which we're going to give more licenses in the tight space, to minimize problems. That means more research and more information, more efficient use of our resources. However, we're predicting a business and investment programme for investors who will apply for this license, where we want 2% guarantees. So: you got this license. You can't wait, you'll present your business plan, you'll deposit your collateral, you'll burn your collateral if you have to. We say we want to encourage production along with this law. It wasn't like that before. The other thing is, we want 2% guarantees in a new license extension, and we're going to bring in this condition to drill these people, these researchers, whether these companies are serious or not they're going to contribute to production, that's what we care about, and that's what we're doing in this law. Two things, I care about them. One is that we encourage investments in two areas related to guarantees in the new law. One of them is that we've been encouraging places that have never been searched. More evidence means more production. Another is that we bring this kind of incentive to rock gas, which is on the agenda of the world. In particular, different countries, such as America, Britain, China, Canada, are doing serious work on rock gas, trying to get their future energy out of rock gas. The world is looking for alternative energy sources. So we can't say that oil is under our country, so let's say, let's wait, let's not say that it's worth it later. Right now, we have to remove the maximum and evaluate it. We don't know what's gonna happen in ten years. Developmental technologies, new energy sources, we'll follow them together. The goal here is to get rid of external addiction by protecting the interests of the country, protecting our national interests, making maximum production. Less currency means more wealth for our country. I wish you all all the best in this bill of law.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit02spe0110par0490	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. No questions, no answers. So the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-22sit03spe0110par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 108th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue the talks of Bill 450. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Court of the Republic of Turkey in the 5th place, and with the Court of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Co-operation Protocol in the Archive Area between Turkmenistan and the Government of Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, the decision is made to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commission in order of Thursday (May 23rd 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
