tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I'm opening the 96-alarm Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is from İstanbul MP Muhammad Bilal Macit, who asked for a speech on April 23rd due to National Sovereignty and Children's Day. Here you go, Mr. Macit.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have taken a stand off the agenda of April 23rd. I salute you all. We celebrate national holidays in Turkey. And in the world, there are other countries' festivals, and they have their fixed days. National holidays, national memorials may be in different numbers, but a national day is one. The United States of America's national day is July 4th, the declaration of the Declaration of Independence. The French were the 14th of July, when the French Revolution began to publish the Bastille. It's considered to represent the national personality of that country in the most unique way, as well as the unifying day. If we say which of the official festivals we celebrate in Turkey could be a national day, I think April 23 is closer to becoming a national day in a much more genuine way than the other four symbols. It represents a national partnership and national will, and today's democracy. As we all know, the Assembly, gathered in Ankara on April 23, 1920, was a continuation of the Assembly, which was distributed by the British in January. So much so that the unfinished agendas would immediately be discussed in Ankara. On the other hand, his name was not Parliamentary Mebusan. First, from the Grand National Assembly and 1921, Turkey was the Grand National Assembly, so in a sense it was a founding parliament. He was aware of his importance, only that he could not gather in Istanbul, so he did not see himself gathered in exile. The First Assembly was a building with no tiles on it yet. According to Mazhar Mufit Kansu, in Ankara, the people brought the tiles of their homes to be removed and closed on top of the building like this. There was no electricity, there was no luxury lamp, and enlightenment was being provided with gas lamps. There were candles in front of the clerks at night. In those years without audio and video devices, the reports of heated debates were carefully kept and kept. But what really makes this House different is the composition of the House. It has often been said how colorful the First Assembly was. People from very different intellectual, cultural, and classical origins came together for the same challenge. According to Ahmet Demirel, who worked in the Parliament, from Hefzi Velideoglu, the first Turkish Assembly of the Great National Assembly had different and different clothes, age, intellectual abilities, and manners. White turbans and white beards and black beards, robed teachers, bright uniforms, young officers in uniform, writing or turbaned tribal gentlemen, bereavement networks, cult fathers and populous wreaths, who had just finished their higher education in Europe, grew up in western culture, had a heart for Kuvaimimilli, had a moustache, had modern clothes. Though the clothes and heads of the mebus were colourful, their hearts and intentions were one. The principle of sovereignty of the First Assembly is dominated. This is the exact principle of undefined sovereignty, which will be the name of the administration in November 1922, almost exactly one year after the removal of the reign, until October 29, 1923, when the republic declared it. It is a form of government in which the administration and the legislation are both at the disposal of the Assembly, and even at the same principle in the extraordinary conditions of that period, which is the highest authority for the judiciary, as it is in the same principle. Of course, that is not an appropriate form for today. A procedure that does not comply with the principles of democracy, such as legislation, execution and the union of the judiciary, is not to be defended. The reason I'm talking about this here is because it's important and revealing that this accent depicts the importance of the House itself. That's because the House sees itself as a reflection of pure national will. Clearly, there is a will in this Parliament to establish a new social contract. However, this nation's will to form is not, as later understood, a single type, a pusher, and an outcast of all sorts of pluralism and diversity. On the contrary, the people who have already met in Ankara in 1920 themselves carry this difference and reflect the common will. On the anniversary of the opening of parliament, it is our duty to work and to give its due in a way that embraces and embraces Turkey today. In the same way, to keep that spirit, but most importantly, to carry this idealism to today's world, to today's Turkey, not to be strangled by anachronism and hammock. The April 23rd memorial should be directed not to the past, but to the future, not to the boast of the past, but to the building of the common future, like the building of the roof of parliament, to the beautiful Turkish democracy of the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Macit. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have received a promise from Malatya, which has caused great damage, which has caused great damage, and about the case of the frosts. Precious lawmakers have been devastated by AKP policies, especially in the last year. Unfortunately, he was able to sell the apricot for 2.5 to 3 TL. The Malatya manufacturer, who suffered the AKP disaster, froze before the last month, and then struck the full disaster. Not the frost and apricot flowers, but the dreams are gone; not the hail and the apricots, but the hopes, the future, are wounded. Today, in fact, I was going to talk about last week's hailing disaster, but the morning news came from Kuluncak. Unfortunately, I've learned that the frost has hit all of Tohma's size and low altitude areas. On the night of March 18th, 19th, Marta, the centre of Malatya, Yashan, Kale, Akchadağ, Battalgazi, Darende, and Hekimhan were burned in many parts of Malatya. Last week he shot Akçadağ County three times. Kören, Dedeköy, Kömekavak, Gölpınar, Altunlu, Company, Seconds, Güçükçı, Çatükçı, Çakbahçe, Grandköy, Ancarlı, Aliçeri, Öşçü, Develi, Esenbey, and Levent struck full ages of growth in the region. Doğanşehir district, one of the least affected areas in March, was also affected by the hail last week. Doğanşehir, Boluzı, Güroba, Kelhalil, Küçlekoba, Alttop, Savaklı, Eskiköy, Hudut, Polatdere, Köylı, Karaterzi, Dederibaz, Scream and Shatiroba have hit the villages full, and the damage is close to 100 percent. Now, these are the eras, the precious MPs, from the village chief's garden. When we saw the apricot, it just arrived today, it came this morning, so please look at it -- it'll hit you full -- maybe you'll have a conscience against the Malatians. Now, once again, I got a call from the physician at the weekend, my dear friends, saying: "He shot the Hekimhan full. Look at this hail, my friends, look at this hail, look at this.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0005par0037	Did AK PARTY do that?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0006par0038	Don't say anything! It's bread, bread!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0004par0039	Look, it's like winter day, guys. Look at these pictures, and look at this apricot, look at what's happened, guys, look at what's happened. The AKP shot the Malatian first, then shot the hail, then shot the frost. Now, dear friends, to your consciences, dear lawmakers: What would the Malatian manufacturer do? Imagine a product that's a brand in the world. Imagine a product that alone covers 80 percent of dry apricot production in the world. Imagine a product where the valued lawmakers cry and cry and cry, even though they hold a product, even if they do. Even if they don't, the manufacturer weeps and is sad. Why? Because the government has been ignoring this product for years. Dear lawmakers, the Malatian is in such a state of psychology that, unfortunately, when he hits his neighbor's garden full, when the frost hits, he's secretly embarrassed and happy in a fingernail, because it depends on how little his own product costs. That's what you're doing with the Malatian. Dear lawmakers, every year, Malatya contributes more than $300m to the country's economy. Someone might hear it from here. Now there hath befallen him a calamity, and the Malatian asketh not of you charity, and asketh not of you forgiveness. The Malatian manufacturer says that we have contributed to the economy by producing our state for years. Because of the apricot we produced, we provided employment, not burdening our government. Now let our government take care of us. Now, as in nuts, give us field-based support for apricots. The credit says to delay our debts, to erase our interest. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, I've said it over and over from this bench, I've said what the Malatian was like. Unfortunately, a friend of ours said it was a lie. I saw it again last week, and saw the disaster in Malatiah. Today, if you'll excuse me, dear lawmakers, I'm going to give both these to the members of the group and to the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, to show you the eras I've brought from Malatya, the situation where Malatya has fallen, the situation where our fruit has fallen, if you'll allow me to do so. I call to your consciences: "Refer the debts of the Malatian, erase their interest, delay their debts. The Malatian has always produced, always contributed to the economy. I'd like to request this from all parties in the House. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0007par0046	Thank you, Mr. Agha. The third non-responsive statement is owned by Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0008par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I've been promised off the agenda to address the problems of my colleagues, agricultural engineers, veterinarians, food engineers, water products engineers, and landscape architects, but due to the shortage of time, today I'm only going to talk about the education and employment of agricultural engineers. Dear lawmakers, the point where agricultural higher education has come from the beginning of agricultural higher education since 1848, unfortunately is not pleasant. In 1974, when I started agricultural higher education, there were four agricultural schools, and in 1981, there were seven agricultural schools. These schools were scattered throughout our geographical regions. ===Early life===The ECHR was founded in 1981, when deciding to open this agricultural faculty, the faculty was assigned to an agricultural faculty that had previously been opened and had sufficient faculty, which assigned seven faculty members as founders, and they would do their work, building buildings and faculty would start training once the faculty was ready. For example, Ankara University Faculty of Agriculture, Çukurova and Uludağ universities have served in the establishment of agricultural universities. Today, new agricultural universities are opening without pre-preparation, with the decision of the Council of Ministers, and the opening schools are starting to demand students within a year or two. As of early 2013, Turkey has 26 agricultural, 5 agricultural and natural sciences, 2 agricultural and technology faculty at 33 universities. Dear lawmakers, six agricultural higher education faculty opened in 2012 alone. In the 1980s, the agricultural schools, which were preferred by students who had reached a range of 1 per cent to 10 per cent in the examinations, have found it difficult to find students in many universities, although in recent years, they have accepted students with very low grades. It's what hospitals are for medical schools and labs and research and practices for agricultural schools. A lot of faculty don't have practice farms today. In the same ecology and very close cities, agricultural universities are opened. As a result of these wrong policies, tens of thousands of agricultural engineers who graduated from the faculty are traveling idlely or working in areas that have nothing to do with their education. Currently, there are agricultural engineers in public affairs, such as teaching, police, bailiffing, guarding. This is a serious waste. These wrong policies must be put to an end at once. On the other hand, agriculture engineers are shown a lot of jobs in the state, and my colleagues are lingering between the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the Finance Ministry. The Minister of Agriculture has made a live statement to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance states that there is no request for new appointments from the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalism. It happens to Turkish agriculture and my colleagues who are waiting for the appointment. Currently, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting has more than 20,000 available staff. Our engineers want to meet our farmers as soon as possible, contribute to Turkish agriculture, work in the fields. They must be given this opportunity. The basis of the national economy is to import live animals into our country, to import animals for sacrifice, to import carcas meat, to import breeding animals, to import bait and feed plants, and to import hay is the saddest. Dear lawmakers, millions of acres of agriculture can be farmed, and the treasure land remains empty. With a law or a law decree, they can be assigned to agricultural engineers who want to operate these lands. With business credits and support, exemplary technical agricultural practices can be done around here. Our country's economy will have an important job and added value. On the other hand, in the process of restructuring the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism with a decree in accordance with law enforcement; for many years, people who have now served as ministry advisors, undersecretary of the Ministry's central and rural services, deputy director of the ministry, deputy director of the office, office, legal advisor, county manager, have performed very important tasks. These people, who should serve directly under the Minister, were addressed with a new arrangement that could work in central and rural units, and were appointed under the Ministry's Guidance and Investigation Presidency. These assignments are against the law and the law. In these assignments, the counselors are called, like, chief counselors, nice counselors, idle consultants. This application must be terminated immediately. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0009par0059	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to give our lawmakers a minute in accordance with the Civil Code 60. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0010par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, we celebrated the 93rd year of the assembly's establishment together. In the hands of the capital class, the sovereignty has become limited to the public, damed, banned, imprisoned, and even chained. The MPs are in prisons and the 77-year-old Mother Nazife, my state; my country, my country, but I am Kurdish. The problem with the Republic is equality and democracy; democracy for everyone, for every opinion, for every language, for every belief. Peace will be the greatest reward we will give our children. Children shouldn't die, their parents shouldn't be arrested, their bodies shouldn't be crushed in the press; they should grow up with modern, secular, native language, these values. The Republic must face its history, which contradicts its corporate philosophy. With the removal of Armenian intellectuals ninety-eight years ago in the name of Turkification and Muslimization, it is necessary to face and understand the process that has been transformed into massacres and catastrophes, which extends to 6-7 September, Hrant. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0011par0069	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. According to AKP's holiday regulations, the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd, the national sovereignty section was consciously transformed into a children's holiday, while national education directors in the provinces and provinces placed wreaths on behalf of the state; the wreaths of parties were not allowed. The goal is to move on to the community by gradually destroying the sense of national sovereignty. Some schools welcomed April 23rd with praises and hymns. At an elementary school in Üsküdar, the students were given the ceremony of April 23rd, where they were performed with songs. The next step will be for the Ministry of National Education to organise the legislatures. Our conscious people who have created the secular republic by their fingernails will never, ever allow you to achieve your goals. I'm saying hello to the MPs who were held hostage on National Sovereignty Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. In Çanakkale, in Caucasya, in Musul, in Palestine, in Palestine, as citizens of the Ottoman State, the Russians, the French, the British, and I condemn the Armenians to fight alongside the British and to slaughter 518,000 Turkish Muslims in response to their rioting in the province of Van, Bitlis, Mush, Çatak, Erzurum, Zeyturum, Hnachak and Ramgavar. I also condemn those who ignore it and say it's a great disaster, saying it's a genocide.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's been news in the papers today that the Turkish Armed Forces have been drawn west. Abdullah Ocalan said that the withdrawal would not be unilateral, but would be mutual. So this is what's happening: are the Turkish Armed Forces withdrawing from the southeast and east? Is the PKK out of the way? Is this the result of a mutual agreement? Is it the surrender of this country without a fight? I'd like the government to answer that question. Will the 24th term pass to Turkish history as a destructive Assembly? That's what I want to learn from them.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0016par0088	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Dağoğlu...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0017par0091	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, ninety-three years ago, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, stated at the time that this world was a trust of children to us and entrusted the House to the children and then to the children of April 23rd. Today, not only is Turkey celebrated, but it is celebrated as a festival that is the first and only one in the whole world. We, the Turkish people, are very proud of it. So once again, I want to emphasize how important children are to us. The Children's View Report in the new constitutional study by children's rights committees in 81 districts has been presented to the Turkish Grand National Assembly by children. Children's rights committees are important mechanisms for the consideration of children's perspective in policy-making processes. [[The microphone has been turned off by the automatic device.]] I think the issues that are going to be discussed and common intelligence are extremely important, and I'm celebrating the children's day again.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0016par0094	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0018par0097	Mr. President, thank you. First, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd. Mr. President, both laws on land 2/B have not covered the victims of forest villagers. Even if the price from agricultural land, regardless of the size of the second amendment, is considered 50 percent of the price, our villagers are unable to buy this land in advance or at a time due to the determination of the rail costs of 10 times the price of property in the Gulf, in Edremit, in the region, and in their villages. Is a study planned to grant the right of objection to our peasants who can't document their victims to public authorities because they're not allowed to object to the law? Is it not a proper proposal to work for the establishment of appeal commissions, including all sides of the issue, so that there may be an objection to the imbalances between the explained Rayic prices? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it not considered to consider the demands of our farmers, such as the consideration of the price of property instead of the price, the reduction of the price to be paid in advance, the extension of the deadline and the taking of interest? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0019par0103	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Gardendoor...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's Grand National Assembly was established ninety-three years ago. Of course, we are all proud to have such a long history of Parliament. We, lawmakers of the 24th century, have earned the right to sit in these seats during the hours and days of work, to use this bench, and we always see the sentence of the unconditional nation in front of us. Not only do we have to see this principle, but we have to internalize it with the idea of a 1920 organization, we have to set up all our policies on this principle. It's an honor to be here. With Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave our children this important historic step on April 23, 1920 as the AK PARTY group, we cherish our martyrs and all our martyrs and veterans and bow down before our memories, as we take this important historic step and present this day to our children as a holiday.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0021par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, we had a sad celebration of our National Sovereignty and Children's Day. In Cumhuriyet Square, İzmir, we were there as MPs, but only the National Education Directorate offered a wreath to Ata. Political parties, the cornerstone of the kingdom, couldn't put wreaths there, no civil society organisations, no bars, no rooms, no wreaths. Eight members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, eight of whom we celebrate the 93rd anniversary of its establishment, are arrested today, and are in prison. We received 583 thousand votes from the same area as one of them, Mustafa Balbay. The national will has been under arrest for 684 days, while 583 thousand votes of the Izmirite have been arrested in Silivri. Our Ancestor, who gave to our children April 23rd. Today, let our children, tens of thousands, the children of our imprisoned intellectuals, fathers, fathers, and fathers...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0022par0115	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0023par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. On 15 January 2013, I submitted a question motion of 20 questions, demanding a written response by the Ministry of Health to the chairman of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. On 17 April 2013, Dr. Mehmet Muezzinoglu, the Minister of Health, signed the 6th question. In the first five questions in my motion, I had a question as to why public-private partnership methods are preferred for new public hospitals to be built in Burma; are there companies that win campus tenders with the method of public-private partnership; what are their tender prices, what are their rent prices, what are their fixed investment rates? None of this has been answered. I'm asking the Ministry of Health why these questions aren't answered, and I demand that my questions be answered. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0025par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. The 168 ministry advisors, who remained outside the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, were subjected to an internal training at Antalya from 11 November to 17 November 2012, under the name of the Executive Academy of Education, where they dealt with 240 different questions under the name ▪neo personality inventory. These people are practically tagged with their photos. These advisors are still assigned out of the province for three or five days on false grounds, making reports on certain matters, regardless of education or experience. These practices, which have been used to serve Turkish agriculture with authority and responsibility, have undermined the peace of work, the sensitivity of duty, and the confidence of individuals in the state. These people are officially implemented and forced to retire. This practice must be put to an end immediately, because it disturbs other ministry employees, causing hesitations about taking responsibility, using authority.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0026par0127	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0027par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday I was at the Manisa for the April 23rd ceremonies. According to the official programme reported by the governorship, we were gathered at 8:40 p.m. at Manolia Square, and the cortage march would begin. The mayor was there, the MP was there, our citizens were there, but none of the people who told us about the ceremony were there, just one school, one student, one official, the deputy governor, or anyone representing the state, and the ruling party were not there. When we asked them, "Is there a mistake?," they said, "We are at the wreathing ceremony." We made it running, but we made it to the Istrillal March. Those who tamper with the state's genes, those who corrupt the state's chemistry, will not achieve these goals, these goals. I resent what happened yesterday in Manisa.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0028par0133	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0029par0136	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, about this agriculture, the tripe-pirinc is often planted in Adana, Edirne, Çorum, in these areas, and in Marash, but recently there are no chips in Turkey. When we investigate, the news reports say that GMOs, or rice-snatchers, are very often caught at customs doors, and GDO-based agricultural products are very much in. Can't the Department of Agriculture handle some of this stuff, but can't we just keep planting and planting rice in these empty fields? I thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0030par0139	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0031par0142	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the values of these 2/B properties have been announced in Erdemli district of Mersin. The numbers are so high that people are rioting. Four hundred thousand liras per square thousand square feet. So, it's a persecution of the farmer, the peasant, the manufacturer. He can't afford it, he can't afford it. Therefore, I demand that the government reconsider the values, not punish the people who feed themselves on their own land by producing their own children, as the National Movement Party, and as the MP of Mersin. I want him to reconsider these decisions. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0032par0145	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0033par0148	Mr. President, in front of our children at the 23rd of April in Istanbul, I really condemn the Director of Largehead National Education to give a speech by calling the head of the ruling party district. This holiday is for all of us. It's the children's holiday. It's the holiday of all of us. From this point on, I'm reporting from here that the Director of Great Czech Education, who did this, did it for what purpose, why, and who will answer for it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0032par0150	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0034par0153	Thank you. Mr. President, there is also a report in the newspapers today of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and in this embarrassing report, the PKK terrorist organization, which has been identified as activists for killing children, burning mirages, shooting children in arson. The separatist terror has also expressed the conflict between Turkish Armed Forces and the PKK (PKK) and has adopted a report containing an unconstitutional declaration, called citizens of Turkey. First of all, I condemn the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which makes this hypocritical Western idea, a terrorist organization that legitimizes and legitimizes the terrorist organization and makes it an activist of a terrorist organization used as a subsidiary of imperialism. According to the Constitution, everyone who is bound by citizenship to the Republic of Turkey is a Turkish citizen, there is no such word as a citizen of Turkey. I would like to say that I condemn the Council of Europe, which does not recognise the Constitution of Turkey, which is the founding will of the Council of Europe, on the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, for their statements.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit01spe0035par0156	Thank you, Mr. Vural. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Article 104, 105, Article 105, and Article 98, under the Constitution's Article 98, in order to determine the reasons for public tenders outside the scope of these laws and the benefits obtained from them and the violations of the Law. [[İstanbul]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Malatya]] 10) Aydın Agha Ayayadın [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 14) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 15) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Mughle]] 18) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] 24) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] 28) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 29) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Tunceli]] [[Eskişehir]] [[40s.]] [[Antalya]] A significant portion of public purchases in Turkey is carried out outside the scope of Public Relations Act 4734. The law, however, was first designed to ensure efficiency, efficiency and transparency in public tenders. The law and other laws adopted under this law have been strengthened by mechanisms to prevent corruption and abuse. The law, however, has been changed many times between 2003 and 2011 because of its structure that poses an obstacle to corruption, many of which are either aimed at laundering corruption or facilitating the spending of some institutions. According to the law, open tenders are required for all willing persons, except for the exceptions of earthquakes, floods, fires, or epidemics. Between September 2003 and 2011, the total of the tenders made to the Public Contractorship is $437 billion. The 137 billion euros (31 per cent) of these tenders were closed to competition. Although the European Union progress reports have been criticised every year, the government maintains this rotten structure so as not to disrupt its establishment of corruption. The review of the Public Contracting Agency (KEC) records shows that sales discounts in exceptional tenders are much lower than open tenders. Public purchases of around $300 billion by various institutions are not without problems. Many of the public tenders, which have recently been found to have been bribed by police, will be seen as being held in open tenders. In open tenders, the removal of competition by product or company recipes is a very common form of tender corruption. Another troubled area in public tenders are municipalities. The municipalities give their tenders to their own companies first, and then these companies can give their jobs to companies they want openly, corruption and abuse, other than the procedures laid out in the law. Another troubled area of public tenders is the purchases made by hiding from the KİK, even though it is part of the Law. In these purchases, billions of dollars are spent on direct contracts with some companies, without any tenders. Another open wound in public contracts is the public housing tenders. The tenders with the model of income partnership in exchange for land have been moved outside the scope of Law 4734 with an illegal notification. The sum of these tenders amounted to $25 billion. The most valuable plots of major cities, such as Istanbul/Ataşehir, İzmir/Karşiyaka or Ankara/Çankaya, have been tendered with very low public shares of 30 per cent and 35 per cent. In this way, the tenders are fixed with audit reports of public damage that could be expressed by billions. The example of public tender corruption, abuse and bad governance is also a waste of resources, while on the other hand, it speeds up social decay. For these reasons, we believe there is a need to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the reasons for public tenders outside the scope of these laws, the amount and the benefits obtained from them, and the violations of the Law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The fact of mass graves is one of the most devastating human tragedies that have occurred throughout history in many geographys where violence and pressure policies have been implemented against public, political, social, and cultural rights. In many countries, such as Turkey, Palestine, Chechnya, Mexico, Kosovo and France, several mass graves have been discovered from violent environments. From the founding of the Republic to this day, practices stemming from the policy of solving the Kurdish problem through violent methods have turned the country into, in effect, a full mass burial ground. The full disclosure of mass grave reality must be considered one of the most important conditions to meet in establishing social peace. In order to determine mass graves in Turkey and to open public graves that haven't been opened yet, to face history, and to update and implement the criteria for mass graves born of international law, we demand the establishment of a research commission under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Union of TBMM. [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In terms of international law, the "death right" protocol is the Minnesota Protocol. The protocol envisions a healthy gathering of evidence for independent, scientific and active investigations to be investigated in accordance with illegal, arbitrary and judicial execution, national or local criminal law. This protocol has been adopted and approved by 87 countries. However, Turkey has considered this protocol to be indiscriminate. "The governments must begin to investigate by establishing a full and independent commission. The commission must be made up of people who are impartial, qualified, and who have been granted independence. In order to avoid a shadow of neutrality, commissioners must not be linked to any possible person, public body, political party or organisation." In the Minnesota Protocol, the criteria for a scientific and fully independent working situation in the area covered by mass grave investigations, for the opening of the mass grave and opening of the mass grave, for those who have lost their lives in cases of unsolved, mass murder. Turkey, which has been in a violent and war environment for years, has a large number of mass graves to be found in Eastern Anatolian and Southeast Anatolian region. The mass grave in the village in which 84 people were burned alive in the village of Sheikh Said (1924-25) offers the first examples of the history of mass grave in Turkey, with a mass grave in the period of Seyit Reza (1937-38) in which there were 230 people. The agenda of Sheikh Said, Seyit Reza, and their friends' reality has created a significant social sensibility for the solution of human bones, which have happened today at excavations due to the war in the region over the past 30 years. Studies by NGOs working in the field of human rights show that Turkey has not had a serious confrontation with mass grave reality. According to studies, there are 3,248 human bones in these mass graves when the estimated mass graves in Turkey were 253. However, the number of mass graves opened in Turkey is 29 and the number of human bones extracted from these mass graves is 190. Thus, there are now 224 mass graves in Turkey that are not opened, and there are 3,058 human bones in these graves. Almost no work has been done in Turkey on mass graves, most of which have been alleged in Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions. While there are 38 human bones found in mass graves in the province of Bingol alone, there are 430 human bones in 32 mass graves still waiting to be opened. We move from all these facts to open Parliamental research to ensure the international compliance and compliance of national laws as well as to determine the mass graves that are alleged to exist and open them in accordance with international law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the psychological, sociological effects of the economic crisis that has been felt throughout the world and in our country, I would recommend the opening of Parliamental research under the Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to take the necessary precautions and measures. The economic crisis in all the countries of the world has caused many negative effects on the psychology of individuals. Stress that has affected all segments in the economic crisis has become a threat to the mental and mental health of most of society. Experts stress that in times of crisis in the economy, workers question their lifestyles and are concerned about the future and have trouble meeting their basic needs. They also say that financial problems, layoffs, and debts will increase in cases of depression and suicide, in which individuals will be able to take an angry and aggressive stand against family members as a result of the joblessness that causes a large percentage of society to face despair. Economic crises and poverty caused by them are important not only as economic phenomena but also for individuals to continue their struggle for survival, but experts say that there is a causality relationship between unemployment and suicide and that suicide has been found to be two or threefold increase in suicide-related deaths, according to employees who are unemployed. Therefore, unemployment is a social situation with significant reflections on the individual. While unemployment and poverty do not only lead to physical illness, it is said that unemployed people have been exposed to mental health problems such as stress, depression, despair, suicide. It is known to the public that the number of suicides, thieves, and psychological imbalances has been increasing continuously because of unemployment. As a result of unemployment and pessimism related to him, suicides are said to be increasing and increasing, along with questions about the future. According to daily news reports, the number of crisis-related suicides appears to be a tragic increase. This is an indication that the economic crisis causes social changes and that human mental and mental health has a negative effect. As in many social areas in Turkey, the lack of scientific research on this subject causes more effective preventable solutions to be developed. In this context, the problem will continue as long as unemployment and poverty are not studied and resolved by social changes. As a result, a parliamentary research commission should be established to investigate the reasons for psychological and sociological traumas on citizens due to the economic crisis and to ensure the necessary measures. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 24/4/2013 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 1/4/2013 by Adana MP Turgay Develi and 20 lawmakers, the Turkish Parliamentary Committee for Parliamentary Research, which was given by the Turkish Parliament on 1/4/2013 to the Turkish Parliament for the purpose of "restricting the Turkish Parliament's work by 12 hours on Parliament TV and ensuring that all of its work be monitored on Parliament TV." lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Wednesday's Wednesday (24/4/2013) jointly and held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favor of the proposal, Adana MP Turgay Develi. Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0036par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like our fellow citizens watching us on television to see the state-of-the-art of this House, if the Capitol cameras show the seats of this House. The way the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a working order is actually closely linked to what we're going to talk about. On the basis of the parliamentary majority, the ruling party conceals the truth from the public by reducing parliamentary television to four hours a week, lowering its main laws to the evening hours, at times when television does not show the laws that hurt society's conscience. In connection with the opening of Parliament TV, we visited Mr. Cemil Çiçek. Twice with our friends in our party group. We asked the people why they were hiding the work of Parliament from the people in 2011, and explained to them that it was not possible by law, even though it was a rare television show that was broadcast live to the community. But, Mr. President, as we understand it -- he's not in favor -- he can't, he can't, he can't, with orders from the Prime Minister to the TRT General Director. Dear lawmakers, fellow citizens, such as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under a sacred roof where we celebrated it yesterday's year of '93, it is illegal to commit illegal acts against the law. If the National Assembly conducts an illegal procedure, it is also necessary to understand that all kinds of illegalities, illegalities, in other institutions of Turkey, daily life. By the power vested in the Parliamentary Presidency of Radio and Television Law 3984, a television channel was assigned for you to monitor the work of Parliament. In the later amendment, the amendment to TRT Law 6112 reflects Parliamentary work under a protocol that will be co-ordained by the chairman of the Parliament 3 and the TRT General Director. Our Parliament Speaker, Mr. Cemil Cicek, who has surrendered to the power so that he doesn't even need to renew the protocol, despite all our cries, despite all our visits, has not moved despite our statements to society. The media, Turkish media, has become the concubine of global finance. Turkey's media, which is also the concubine of the EC PARTI government, who is also a political concubine, are already selling them one by one, by shutting down the foundation of society's demands, by placing financial capital on Turkey's property, by placing the republic's 90-year-old savings, State Railways, PTT Τ, oil, oil, TEK Τi, distribution tenders, all the days in which all the institutions of our independence are being closed to the public, while we are now ending the economic independence of Turkey, by shutting down the community's work, by engaging its slaved media with other agendas. From here, with all due respect, Mr. Speaker, I would like to call upon you once again: Mr. President, your attitude does not suit the dignity of this Parliament. The dignity of this House... the entire work of this Parliament must be broadcast to the public for 24 hours. If the Justice and Development Party doesn't have anything to hide from the public, something to smuggle from the public, the laws they impose are in the best interest of the public, why does it shut down Parliament TV? You know, our fellow citizens, when it's seven o'clock, Parliament TV closes down. Know that all the laws that concern your life directly, that directly concern your life, that mortgage your children's future, your grandchildren's future, come here after Parliament TV is shut down, one by one with the votes of the AK PARTI. When you look at the paper the next day -- it's not on their agenda -- but you see what happens when you meet the application -- like the fact that the pensioners started collecting bonuses backwards from 2003. Dear citizens, since 2002, the Justice and Development Party has taken over from you the will of representation, saying, "We will overcome corruption, poverty and despair." Now, there's something else that you live on very hot: the 2/B plots, the land. I'd like to give you an example. I'm just going to give you an example from one place, and that leads to the whole of Turkey. There are 38,000 farmers registered in the CPS system in the Çukurova region. We're canvassing all the plains with Turgut Usin, Ceyhan County President Ilyas Kurt, and our county heads. How much treasure land is there, how much 2/B land, how much forest land is there? Can you imagine, from the day the Republic of Turkey was built only once, today, almost a large portion of the land used by the peasant, the farmer, is located in the village of Threedut, the village of Yeşilova. The 2/B problem in Turkey means nothing more than stealing people's money from their pockets, unless a new cadastro study is done. It's like the State Railway Act we're going to talk about a little bit later. In mid-May, the wheat harvest will begin in the Çukurova region. Dear Çukurovaans, dear Adanans, Mersinites, Tartarians; the Justice and Development Party has not disclosed the price of wheat bases, even though it is fifteen days away from the wheat season. Why? Because the wheat will be harvested. The farmer is in trouble; he's in debt, he's in debt, he's in debt, he's in debt, he's in debt, he's in debt, he's at the door. He'll harvest it, take it away, pay off his debt to the loan shark, and he'll be saved. Fifteen days after the harvest, 20 days from now, the base price will be set. Know that your interests, your futures, your children's futures are not considered. I'm asking power from here: what do you expect to explain the price of base? Why are you waiting to explain the price of wheat sole? Çukurova is a wheat depository. Hundreds of thousands of people's future depends on the explanation of the price of wheat base in May. Why don't you explain now and condemn the merchant, the loan shark, the Çukurova farmer? Believe it or not, you are expected by village citizens in Ceyhan, in the ovaries, in Karatas, in Imamoglu, especially in the Adana MPs of your party. Let's see what you have to say about their faces. There, with our peasants, with our farmers, we tell them that you, as you shut down Parliament TV to hide the truth from the public eye, set the wheat base prices late in order to benefit the trader, the loan shark, and how you took billions of dollars from the public's pockets because the government didn't make cadastros. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0037par0033	Thank you, Mr. Develi. It's Kurskkale MP Ramazan Can against you. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0038par0037	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, we need to look at the legal basis, the basis of the parliamentary TV broadcasts, what's the basis, what's the reason, what's the response to the legislation. There's a protocol dated 3/1/1995, which is the legal basis. Here I read the second article of the protocol, dated 3/1/1995, signed by Professor Tayfun Akguner, then the chairman of parliament at the time. I read from 2/1/1995: In the third television program, 2-TRT, in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, we see a publication period of three days a week between 2 and 1900 hours a week, in order to reflect Turkish Parliament's activities in public.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0039par0040	There's no protocol, protocol!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0038par0041	On the other hand, if a group of vice presidents, AK PARTY deputy leader, Republican People's Party, National Movement Party, or member of the group's Party for Peace and Democracy, on the other hand, wants to hold a press conference at 11:30 p.m., the most important time in the press department, he will not be able to hold this meeting until July. The AK PARTI group presidents usually use the group assembly hall, use another area, hold the press conference here, but the other opposition party members of the group will not be able to meet at this time. If you ask why, Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, one of the MPs of the National Movement Party, has given this watch to himself until July.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0040par0043	11. Do it at 00.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0038par0044	▪ The law does not protect the abuse of one's rights only if it persists against it. The law is in every matter it touches with its mouth and soul. It is his body that is fundamental in the conditions that are conditioned. It says that the Civil Law has no intention but to abuse the law. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been mentioned in Parliament TV broadcasts that the AK PARTY restricts it. Right now, everyone from the Internet has access to these publications. Again, in accordance with the information we received from the Parliamentary Secretary General, within a week, all our citizens will have the right to monitor this broadcast from their mobile phones, unlimitedly, at the hours of the House's work. Mr. President, if you need to give a brief report on the work of Parliamentary TV, for example, in November 2012, the EC PARTI 39 minutes and 15 seconds in the news department, the Republican People's Party 1 hour and 17 minutes, the Nationalist Movement Party 54 minutes, the Peace and Democracy Party 50 minutes; when we reach the rates, the EC PARTI 7 per cent others, the opposition 32 per cent, the commission 32 per cent, the general 12 per cent, the President 17 per cent. And I can tell you about January. In January, the EC PARTY totalled an hour and 14 minutes, the Republican People's Party 50 minutes, the National Movement Party 1 hour and 3 minutes, the Peace and Democracy Party 32 minutes; in total, the EC PARTY 20 per cent, and the opposition 38 per cent in total. In view of this, a situation is being observed against the EC PARTY, even though it may cause controversy between opposition and power. Mr. President, the valuable MPs are the group proposal of the Republican People's Party -- the State Railways law remains incomplete, the State Railways law is closely followed by the public, pending -- to extend the agenda. Therefore, the group declares that we will vote against his proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0041par0050	Thank you, Mr. Can. Izmir MP Oktay Vural. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0042par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, at the beginning of my words, I especially condemn the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for its hypocritical understanding, which unfortunately does not see the bloody face of terror. In particular, I would like to express to you that a blind view of the terrorist organization, the people who killed the babies, the people who burned the serapses, as activists can't actually bring a civilization to humanity. On the other hand, in the Uygur region of China, unfortunately, 10 Uygurians were killed in the attack by the Chinese special forces in an Uygur house -- indeed, there, again, unfortunately, there are pressures, threats, and blackmails against the Uyghurs. I ask God's mercy to the Uygurs who died in the attack on the Uygur region in East Turkistan. (x) The statement of this statement was found on page 697, page 697, page 97, dated 25/4/2013. Yes, the Republican People's Party has given me from Parliamentary Television... in fact, I'm amazed. Why? Parliament's activities are requested to be reflected; a member of parliament or a party in this parliament states that it is correct not to reflect parliamentary activities. What kind of understanding is that? So it's impossible to imagine, in such a sense of regret, that a sense of transparency, without accountability, without accountability, without understanding of the freedom of knowledge of society, could move Turkey forward, its democracy, to the point where people who voted to learn about the activities of this Parliament would not even protect their rights, its law. So here, let the people follow your word and our word, let them listen, let them decide, let the citizens know about the activities of their Parliament. We're talking about their rights, their laws, they're coming here, sir, there's no need. It's the legitimacy of shutting down Parliament's activities and darkening. I mean, that's unacceptable. Here, if the audience box is open to citizens, it can only be the result of a dark thought, a closed thought, to use technology today to ask all citizens to shut down the work of Parliament. We really need to express that this understanding is unaware of freedom of thought and expression, unaware of freedom of the press. Now, we've just been given what's been said in Parliament TV. Whoever's talking here is so much more... if you don't have your word, if only your fingers are talking, so what do we do? So, Parliamentary Action Party has a motion, you don't, the National Movement Party has its word, or should we shut up, too? We don't speak, O opposition, and you don't speak. Do you mean? In fact, what we're discussing today is a right beyond the three-hour, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday broadcasts of Parliament TV. The citizen wants to know, the citizen wants to see the MP, see what he's talking about, what motion he's giving, whether he's gone. Look, what did Fatosh Gürkan, AKP MP say in 2008? About a month after the July 22nd elections, during the General Assembly's work, as I left the General Assembly, my phone rang at the door, asking where I was. So I said, I'm on the General Assembly. Yeah, you're on the General Assembly, but I see you're out. What's the matter? Did something happen? Turkey's Grand National Assembly Television is really important. It's a channel that broadcasts group meetings, commission meetings, parliamentary programs objectively. Why don't you see it today, why don't you show it? This is important, in fact, for the use of the will to take the sovereignty of the nation to show how it uses its power to exert pressure, threats, blackmail, and judgment. Yes, our desire is not the civilization of power, but the power of civilization. Unfortunately, today, in this understanding of civilization, which has taken power by the majority's will, citizens have no right to know, to see, if we make a motion here after seven o'clock, about the activities of Parliament. I mean, there's a listener at six, but why doesn't he have the right to see the Parliament, the parliament that works after seven? What kind of nonsense is that? What kind of nonsense is that? So, at this point that we're here today, in fact, it's created by pressure to direct the truth. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan says about TBM TV: "The show is all about the view." That's the truth. No one's keeping their voice down. TRT, like other televisions, will be able to pull them out of the newsletter and use them. Where is he? People are tired of watching the series from morning to evening; look at the TVs, see the broadcasts. Oh, my God! Today, we just want the citizen to know about our legislature duties in Parliament, what he's talking about, whether he's there or not. In this regard, the publications of Parliamentary Television allow citizens to have direct knowledge of parliamentary activities, where public opinion is formed and public opinion is shaped, and also actively participate in the process. Through accountability, transparency, the rights of a citizen, protection of law enforcement, lawmakers, frankly, the right to his rights to protect his law is all about the opening of parliamentary activities to citizens. In that way, in such a process, this freak... My dear friends, all of the general council work in all countries, except Bulgaria, is being given alive, yes. In most countries, these studies are re-banded. In most countries, parliament can broadcast 24 hours with news and comments about its work. You know what we want? We're the nation's representatives. If we're here as representatives of the nation, if we're making a statement, if there's a motion, people should know about it. It is only those who wish that he should not be informed of it, and who fear the people. It has to be audited, it has to be transparent. In that regard, at this point that we are here today, the limitation of real parliamentary activities is to prevent a citizen from knowing directly. I thought we were going to create a knowledgeable society. I thought we were going to create a competitive Turkey as a knowledgeable society. If the farmer, the shopkeeper, who has been defended in parliament, is unemployed, if he doesn't know who defended this right, which motions were made, if he doesn't know what the parliamentary speaker is doing, if he can't ensure that these parliamentarians are responsible for him, we can't survive the parliamentary democracy. In that sense, yes, parliamentary activities should be broadcast live by a channel, directly by a channel dedicated to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where commission meetings should be broadcast. Turkey's important issues and laws should be passed to the nation by this channel on Parliament TV; not enough, commission work should be given; not enough, all media should be allowed to participate in parliamentary activities, to have knowledge. If people's pulse is in here, they have a right to know if this pulse is on their will. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, as the National Movement Party, we also feel that this proposal should not be handled as a party proposal, but as an opportunity to show its responsibility to the nation in which each parliamentary member and party is responsible for its activities. In that regard, Parliament's publications must be established to provide a research commission to provide a specific basis for the publication of the Parliament's work and to address the matter and make itself responsible for its people. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0043par0070	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Against Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0074	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group proposal made by the Republican People's Party. On today's agenda, we'll discuss the railroad law that was left unfinished from last week. The speakers just made a statement saying that these publications in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey were not broadcast on TRT 3 channel, their publications were cut off, and the authority lowers our voice. Now, look, I'm reading to you the 2nd article of the agreement between Turkey's Grand National Assembly and TRT in 1994: ▪TRT, in the third television programme, is dedicated to the Turkish Parliament's presidency, which is three days a week between 2:00 and 1900 hours a week for the public view of the Turkish Grand National Assembly activities. I mean, three days a week, two to seven days a week. This was signed in 1994 by the Parliament Speaker Husamettin Cindoruk.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0045par0078	That's protocol, protocol! You call the law!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0079	It's not a contract that was signed during our time. The 5th article of this article is a change in the duration of the publication...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0046par0081	It's been published so far.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0082	Meetings such as the budget, the Government Programme, the talks of visiting foreign statesmen in Parliament are covered by special circumstances. It is also said that literature can be extended at this time.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0047par0083	You talk about the law, the law, it's protocol!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0046par0084	Well, in that case, change the protocol, we'll bring in the law.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0085	Now, the speaker who just spoke here is not aware of the Parliamento activities...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0046par0086	Don't run away from the public, don't be afraid!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0087	By God, don't worry, wherever we go, all our people are familiar with the work of Parliament.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0046par0088	You're practically marketing side TVs.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0089	If you can't express yourself, if you can't go to the citizens' feet and tell them, it's only natural that you don't know about them.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0048par0090	Why are you hiding it? Why? Let everyone watch.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0046par0091	Don't be afraid, don't be afraid! Your fingers are talking!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0092	Look, yesterday, on April 23, 1920, we celebrated the 93rd anniversary of the Assembly, didn't we? It's been like there's been TV broadcasts here for 90 or three years, and our people are getting wind of it, and then we cut it off. Friends, since 1994, haven't these publications... before 1994, our nation had been aware of this Parliamental work, of the Parliamental activities? He did, didn't he?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0048par0093	What kind of logic is that?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0046par0094	Yeah, it was, the broadcast! I mean, look at this logic. There was a broadcast!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0095	Now, look, any work done here, any commission work done here, any motions given, any talks made, public information, press, all of it, it's open, public knowledge from here, it's absolutely public information.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0046par0096	You're being listened to by the Ispartans, and they're worried that it's coming to represent us! I'm transferring you to Nevzat Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0097	Also, online TV, 24 hours of Internet broadcasting is being broadcast here. Our citizens can also open it and watch it on the Internet.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0049par0098	Fantastic!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0099	Closed society means off the air, which means no press members have been taken. Don't worry...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0050par0100	Take them, take them!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0051par0101	You've ignorant all the media in your power, and now you're trying to ignorantise Parliament TV? Why hide it from the public, why, why?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0102	Also, the speaker who just spoke at the Parliament press conferences, the government, the AK PARTY, has nothing, so...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0052par0103	Do a press conference tomorrow. Not even a press conference?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0104	We tell our people what's wrong with our actions, we communicate with them through our actions. We don't want to keep our people too busy with things that don't happen at a press conference.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0052par0105	Your job, your strength, is to attack the MPP, the nationalists.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0106	What we're about to tell you is that we're able to do it with actions. And he also said something that didn't look good here, that you're showing Recep Tayyip Erdogan on all channels.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0053par0108	You turned Turkey into an AKP studio!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0109	I'm sorry, private broadcasters will publish whoever's being watched. If you can't be watched, you can't insult people in all kinds of open talks, blasphemy, all sorts of things we haven't been able to say, little kids...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0054par0111	What do TVs do if you don't work?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0112	When all your leaders leave, please turn off your television.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0055par0113	It was a very commercial conversation.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0114	...when our leader comes out, he broadcasts our Prime Minister's speeches because he speaks compassionately, welcomingly to society, because all the channels are rated.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0055par0115	It's like a tabloid show.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0044par0116	That's all I'm saying. Sir, I'm informing you that we disagree with CHP's group proposal.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0056par0119	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Law Bill and Development, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In the 94th Union of 18/4/2013, the vote was completed in the first part of the bill, which was considered the main law under Article 91. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter includes the 10th, the 10th, the (2)th, (3)th, and (4) the interim 1, 2, 3, 4th, and 12th, including the 10th, and the 5th. On the second chapter, the People's Movement Party Group will speak for Sakarya MP Münir Kutluata. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0057par0142	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the second part of the Bill of Law on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group, and I salute the Grand Assembly. It's always been a subject of debate, with its great importance in railway transport, transportation systems, and its neglectedness in our country. As a matter of fact, the first sentence of the general reason for this bill is the railway, which determines the development and independence of our country. A very serious arrangement is being made in a sector that is effective from the country's development to its independence, culture to its prosperity and many other areas that can be counted. This arrangement has come before us with a bill of law. The first thing that stands out is how well the public is aware of this significant change. Do colleges know about this? How many of the 100 college students are aware of such a change? Maybe they've heard about it in the last week, but a week ago, if you'd tried that when he came to the House, I'm sure 99 percent of the youth didn't know about it. Does this indicate the state of university youth, that matters are not seriously addressed and not subject to the public, that our democracy is in? But I can make it clear that such a change will be removed again, without discussion, only on the basis of the majority here. Everyone knows how important the railways are, but they are not aware of what changes are being made in such an important matter. (x) 441 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 94th Union Charter, dated 18/4/2013. Dear lawmakers, again, it is called the removal of the monopoly and liberalisation of the sector. The removal of the monopoly is understandable, it should be discussed in many ways, but it can be understood, but it is unclear what it means with the freeing. If you want to be called the introduction of competitive conditions to the railroads, why can't it be made clear? If it's about privatisation, why isn't it made clear? If both are meant to be, what does it not involve? Well, then, at least that counts. A statement inspired by the free market economy would be more accurate if at least it was indicated that liberalisation would be limited to market conditions. It is not clear what it means to attempt such a radical change and use such vague expressions. From the removal of the monopoly, it would appear that competition should be brought in. If the state's monopoly is removed and brought in a special monopoly, then it will not be able to contribute to development, nor to consolidate independence, as it has just been stated. The expression "freedom" appears to include privatisation, but its competitiveness cannot be understood. Since privatisations have gone from purpose to alienation, it is a wonder how liberalisation will turn into privatisation, as the railways are also associated with independence. We hear this concern because of the countless examples we have experienced. As you may recall, a company that exists under the name IDO (Istanbul Sea Buses) has been privatized, sold, and has been created in the Marmara Sea. We wonder: Although shipping is the cheapest area, although shipping across the sea is the most important line, even though the Sea of Marmara is available, why this ruthless monopoly was created, why no competitors were created, is curious. So I'm just saying this as an example of our concerns about the railroads. Prices of $5 have gone up to $20, and even television channels have been forced to watch for citizens. In that regard, it is not important to remove the state monopoly, it is important to ensure that the private monopoly will not be created. Deliberate lawmakers, with this law, are made thanks to TUVASAS, TILOMSAS and TIDEMSASI state-owned institutions of the Republic of Turkey. It is stated that workers will be transferred to retirement within a month, that the transfer of those who desire to retire within a month will be provided with incentives, but they cannot go back again, they cannot apply any conditions. If these workers are given a life of employment and they choose to retire because of financial necessity, why are these people not given a chance to think for a while, and why are they not given the opportunity to get the inflation difference they're going to get in July? Dear lawmakers, our second concern that this privatisation will turn into a monopoly or that it will not be healthy is the developments in the car industry. In this area in Turkey, as you know, there is a need for a large number of cars to be drawn, drawn, to be used both in the railway lines and in the Bosphorus tunnel. These appear to be a market worth over $5 billion in two years, and around $18 billion in the next 15 years. It's a question of why we can't open the way for an industry to compete with the world on car cars, when we have companies like car industry in Turkey, such as TILOMSASS, such as the engine industry. Look, TUVASASAS Industrial in Adapazari ate a big earthquake, and even during the earthquake, the workers there continued their production without a break, with the sacrifices of the workers. Now, in a market-wide period such as this industry is expected to be revived, to provide for our internal needs, to provide improvements for exports with this market advantage, while an institution called TUVASASASY has been placed inside the land. No one knew what the company was doing, what it was going to do, and billions of dollars in capital were being taken. We insisted, we asked you to show us the cars made here. An organization that didn't build cars, which imported cars from South Korea, imported railway vehicles, and edited them there, but went into the market with it and evaluated the market in Turkey. So, when these examples are present, it is our sincere concern that our national institutions, our national industry, will be harmed. Speaking of Adapazari, we've seen that the sugar industry, which is Sakarya's lifeblood, was first linked to the private bank, then borrowed, and then damaged because of the quotas, and then damaged by a private bank, but very special. But, for some reason, the quota of this factory has been increased after this era has been carried out. Thus, we believe that this development should be transformed into a national industry and used in Turkey's favour while the market is our market, while the country's industrial institutions are changing hands in this way and moving in different directions, while the market is our market, and there is an investment of billions and tens of billions of dollars, while the market share is at stake. So from that point of view, I'm going to go back to liberalisation, and I'm saying, of course, we'd like to open the way for any development on the railways, but we'd like to make sure that their boundaries are set and that we know what kind of painting is in front of us and that the public knows. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0058par0157	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Nüğde MP Doğan Şafah. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0059par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the second chapter of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of the 441-line Turkish Railway Transport that is being discussed. Dear lawmakers, it would not be right for us to discuss the railways without discussing history, economics and politics. In the Ottoman period and in the early years of the republic, foreign companies operated 2,378 kilometers of our railway roads. With the right decisions of Ataturk and Inöneh, all the roads of the railways were stateized. Why do we think it's right to state and invest in government? Because I want to tell you with the example of India, how economic games have been played in the railways that have been built and run by colonial states and private companies in history. Dear friends, when the English who built India's railways saw that they would encourage the development of the local industry, they followed two different strategies to prevent this development. Less transport fees were paid between ports and manufacturing and housing centres, while the country's own products were paid very high in railways carrying between the centers. In response to the standard width of the main railways connecting ports to raw materials sources, history has witnessed how they exploit their economies by expanding the second routes that provide internal transportation in various ways. Another very important example is that when the circulation of goods and capital is under $2 billion in 1800, globalization in 1900 is the two most important proof of how quickly the world markets have transformed into the form that the West wanted, and how the railways have been used as political and economic power. In the 19th and 20th centuries of Europe, massive capital exports were made to be used to build railways for colonised and semi-colonised countries. At the same time, governments who saw the cost of exporting capital, uncertainty in the world economy and the cost of building railways were required to build railways, but did not have the technology to guarantee the companies who took over the business. Thus, over time, countries demanding the construction and construction of railways have become dependent on Western banks and companies in terms of land and human resources. With this law, today, the path is opened. In terms of political geography, the location of Turkish railways is of great importance both nationally and internationally. In recent years, valued lawmakers have tried to reduce Turkey's position and regional activity in the global co-operation structure by establishing strategic partnerships with countries such as the EU, Russia and Iran, but Turkey will have to produce alternative projects for the East and the West within the next hundred years by the state's hands, but will maintain its place in global balances, especially in the railway corridors. In Turkey, railway construction negatively affects physical conditions, especially topography is a major problem in fast train applications, which increases investment costs. Today, only 23 per cent of the existing railways in Turkey are compatible with topography. While railways are economical in places where land slopes are 5%, only 30 per cent of Turkey's railways are included. Thus, 53 per cent of the railways in Turkey are economically beneficial. On the other hand, businesses and land in the back of the railways in the transport sectors also have some problems, as well as large spaces. There are three separate factories operating in accordance with the Turkish Republic's State Railways. These factories include Turkey's Locomotive and Motor Industry Corporation TILOMSASAŞ, Turkey's Van Industry Company TEVASASŞ and Turkey's Railway Machines Industry Anonym Company TIDEMSASŞ. The engine, which is needed for railway transport, is drawn and drawn like cars, and the evenings of these vehicles are produced in existing factories, but production is not at the desired level. Apparently, building an anonymous company, liberalizing it doesn't help. These factories must be used effectively. On the other hand, EU countries have developed new corridors that aim to reach the Central Asian Turkish republics, with large populations such as China and India, with multi-modified transport corridors. The Pan-European and TEN projects have been integrated into newly formed TRACECA and Trans-Asian corridors, resulting in the Eurasia Corridor. Of the corridors of Eurasia, the most important is the Corridor of TRACECA. The EU TACIS-TRACECA Programme was formulated by the European Commission in 1993 by the European Commission to strengthen trade and transport to these countries and unite them with the international economy at a conference organised by the participation of the governments of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The transport of the railway is an important transport sector in the TRACECA Program. Turkey's location is also important in the TRACECA Corridor, which includes multi-modal transport systems. With Bulgaria and Romania joining the European Union, Turkey was included in the project, though limited. In reality, the Turkish republics, which emerged from the dissolution of the Soviet Union, have given Turkey the opportunity to have political and economic influence in a vast geography. Taking into account language, religion, cultural proximity and Turkey's achievements in development, Western countries initially accepted Turkey as the key country in entering the Central Asian market, while European countries did not want to follow a policy dependent on Turkey. Turkey has been directed to seek alternative routes that will leave it out of the corridors of energy and transport or minimise its regional activity. The EU's desire to leave Turkey out of the mega-transport corridors has been determined by the TRACECA. Turkey is a geography that connects the seas, with throats, close to Caspian and Middle East oil, natural gas reserves; it must make a serious master plan for transport, considering the fact that this is the most important corridor on the line. On the other hand, it is inevitable that investments that will be held in the control and monopoly of the state, given its railway policies, external connections, energy policies, and future economic, political, strategic power. Today, liberalisation, the most important step towards privatisation, raises doubts. In the future, it is clear that the rights and privileges of domestic or foreign companies on the railways will not benefit our country's interests -- in light of the historical facts we have established above. Therefore, because of the economic and political importance of the State Railways, I would like to say that we oppose the liberalisation and privatisation of the Republic's People's Party, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0060par0176	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0061par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the second chapter of the Bill of Law on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport 441 rows. I salute you all. Precious lawmakers, the next bill again includes an arrangement that will make it difficult for citizens to access cheap and qualified services, allowing the AKP's government to take one step further towards the transfer of public services entirely to private, allowing the services to be left entirely under market control. Look, with this bill, the railways will remain the property of the state, but the business, the business will be private companies, and the Turkish Republic's State Railways will run the railroad traffic. Again, the bill is restructuring the Turkish Republic's State Railways as a railway infrastructure operator. The units related to running trains for the Turkish Republic of Turkey's State Railways will be separated and will remain the State Railway Transport Corporation. So, the Turkish Republic of Turkey is envisioned to serve as a railway infrastructure operator on the part of the state-saving railway infrastructure, which is part of the national railway infrastructure network. However, it opens the way for public corporate individuals and their companies to build their own railway infrastructure and to become a railway infrastructure operator on this infrastructure and operate as railway train operator on the national railway infrastructure network. According to this, the Turkish Republic's State Railways will serve as railway infrastructure managers over the part of the railway infrastructure which has been handed over to them, and its top structure will be completely transferred to companies. The bill was cited as referring to the monopoly of the Turkish Republic's State Railways, which would offer a cheaper and more high-quality railway service, with the dissolution of monopoly, competition with the involvement of many companies. I guess that's how to open the way for a new monopoly by referring to monotheism negatively. Because based on the experiences that we experienced during the ten-year period of power and examples that had previously been tried and failed in developed countries such as England, this arrangement would increase monopolisation in the opposite way, and it shouldn't be difficult to predict that there would be an unstable increase in ticket prices, along with the commercialisation of services. Moreover, the transfer of these important services to profit-profit companies by reducing the costs will also open up to debate the credibility of the railways that will lead to life. Dear MPs, in the bill, the state railway personnel are being forced to retire as usual. The arrangement envisions pension bonuses for those who apply within a month from employees employed on the Turkish Republic State Railways, pension holders; 25 per cent for those who remain at the maximum of three years to retirement; 25 per cent for those who remain at the maximum of three years; more than three years old; 30 per cent for those who remain at the age limit; and 40 per cent for those who remain at the age limit of five years; and 40 per cent for those who remain behind. Again, the conditions for the pension bond are due by the end of 2013, if they apply within a month of the day when it is granted, 40 per cent of the pension bonuses will be paid. In addition, pension applications made under this clause cannot be shown on a later date as a retirement date, the applications cannot be registered or retrieved from any record. Moreover, it is stated that pensioners cannot be employed within five years of retirement in the Turkish Republic's State Railways and its joint partnerships. Now, if you ask me, what do you understand about this stuff? There's only one explanation: the AKP government wants to immediately retire the current railroad personnel and identify them with the most important tools of neoliberism and make their cheap labor permanent on the Railways. And while he's doing that, he's got a finger in the mouth of the current staff. He aims to pay extra for pensioners' bonuses and to address the social side of the event as well as to use it as a common silence against organised opposition. It also paves the way for future risks in this area, by blocking the way for retired personnel from a field that requires technical expertise and competency, such as the Railways. Dear lawmakers, with this bill in essence, it's an important public service area, so the railroads are once again given to private companies, to the market. This is a bill that will lead us to transportation as well as money. Yes, in the present case of railways, cargo and passenger transport capacity are relatively low compared to other transportation vehicles. The bill also states that the number of railways for passenger transport in the 1950s was 42 per cent and the share of freight transport at 68 per cent, while today's share is 1.5 per cent and 4.5%, respectively. However, there has been no mention of the political approach, which is the reason for the decline of these rates, which is continued today by the AK PARTI power. Dear MPs, what is this political approach, and let me talk about this: look, 80 percent of the current railways were made in the 1950s, and 40 percent of that was done in the pre-Republic era. 40 per cent of the railways that the Ottomans built in order to make it possible for European sovereign forces to reach their colonies in Asia and India via Baghdad-Basra, and 40 per cent were built in the process of the early 1950s, after the beginning of the republic, to provide transportation to many parts of the country from a vantage point of view through war psychology. However, state investments, which began in the 1950s, for road transport, carry communist roads. Its ideological rhetoric has been particularly propaganda for the right-wing parties that have been in power since then. Not only that, especially in the election process, but the pragmatic propaganda that the AK PARTY is using today is very intense. "We're going to lead you." The expression formed over it has trapped the railways in the existing roads before 1950. The country's geographical conditions and climate structure, however, are constantly being spent on state-run figures due to the price of oil and the rise in the price of oil, which are constantly being spent on roads from state resources, due to changing climate conditions and utilities. But more than that, I'd like to point out to you that the roads for life are far less reliable than the railroads, that we've lost more lives in a medium-density war in accidents that occur on the road every day. That's why I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0062par0193	Thank you, Mr. Rider. In the name of the person, the Slap Congressman Reşat Right...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0063par0195	No, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0062par0196	Adana MP Turgay Develi... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0064par0199	Mr. President, I'm not going to go over the technical clauses of the State Railways' liberalisation, privatisation law. The spirit of this law is this: Mr. Minister, in his speech when the law is being discussed, the roads of iron are independence. I agree with him that the railroads are independence, PTT is independence; Turkey's Oils Anonymous Partnership, the Oil Act, our oil are independence; sugar factories are independence; Turkish Electricity Corporation was independence; ports were independence. The Justice and Development Party has sold all the institutions and institutions that represent our independence, the economic foundations of the republic, the nation's state, and is now talking about an independent country. Dear lawmakers, the Office of Earth Mahullars of Turkey, even the main institutions of the state, the farmers, the villagers, even to harvest your product, are buying from you by borrowing money from outside. The loans our banks give you are all external-source loans. Here's the bottom line: With the 1980 coup, with the January 24th resolutions, Turkey has been integrated into global finance. From that day forward, consciously, with neoliberal politicians, all the values of Turkey's 90-year-old republic are being invaded, destroyed. Today, we have an example of this with the State Railways. Between 2008 and 2011, there was an investment of close to $5 billion in State Railways, and in 2011 alone, he owed 700 million. What are they doing? They're making it ready for sale. They did the same for the ports, they did the same for the energy distribution tenders. In order to resist the invasive policy of neoliberism, in order to maintain independence, we need our factories to remain an independent state, we need the post office to be ours, we need the State Railways to be ours, we need the oil-seeking companies to be ours, we need the sugar factories to be ours. The Justice and Development Party has sold all of this, sold all of it, bought the farmer's product from the outside, took the worker's salary from the outside, and then we are in a non-political country, he says. Independence, friends, workers, strong, peasants strong, people strong, prosperous, well-being high, distilled, refined, the states of the country are independent, their governments independent. The spirit of this law, no matter what it says in technical materials, is the economic liquidation of one of the basic economic values of the nation's state that Turkey has accumulated in the Republic of Turkey. If you can't afford your savings, if you need capital savings, global finances, large monopolys, that's what you need, make sure that there will be a day when you will be asked about the account of the government that the financial capital in your own country has enslaved, the government that the financial capital has enslaved, the government that you've established by subservienting the media. From now on, every time you see every poor person, every desperate person, every desperate person around you, your lives -- today will pass, you won't have this parliamentary position -- your heart will be aching because you are the owners of this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0065par0207	Thank you, Mr. Develi. Moving on to QA. Fifteen minutes to answer, half to questions, half to answers. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0066par0211	Mr. President, thank you. Now, Minister, I've asked you this before, but please don't be sensitive. Turkey seems to be a very troubled country, often hard to sell property, and hard to pass on. So, has Turkey been this troubled for the past decade, and you're already considering collecting all the property of the State Railways, all the property of the future? Will it be enough to hand over the property, rent it, sell it, pay off Turkey's ten-year debt, or close it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0067par0214	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0068par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked you a while ago, but we didn't have ministers. Mr. Secretary, there's this image, and it's all over the papers today, and you know that the Turkish Armed Forces are being pulled from the Iraqi border and from Şırnak. What's the reason for this withdrawal? Tomorrow, a statement will be made in Kandil, saying there will be an improvement in the withdrawal of PKK members. Is this the agreement you made, the negotiations you had, the negotiations you had with Ocalan, and the assurance of the Ocalan? Is the Turkish Armed Forces an army defeated without a fight? Are you the Minister of the Army? That's what I want to ask you. Please respond to this.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0069par0219	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0070par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we have a district of Çamardi -- to the border of Niğde -- where they've been on the dirt for two years. On the right, on the left, there's apple orchards, citizens are alive, they've been drowned for two years. We ask him, and he leaves, and he goes away. We face certain expressions like this. When are you gonna figure this out? The living citizens there are in a lot of trouble. And the second: after this piner, after the border of Niğde, among the brass-nuts-Alpu-Post, for three or four years, not a stake was struck. When do you think you'll make it this way? Again, the last time I asked, between Aladağ and Akören... before the 2011 elections, the Minister of Tourism said: "I'm downloading the dozers there." Now, Minister... the roads have not been made, it's been three years. Were those a promise of choice? If you're gonna do it, when do you think you're gonna do it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0071par0226	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0072par0228	Mr. Secretary, as you know, the State Railroad has a public residence. There is the fact that Mr. General Manager has kept several apartments from these dwellings... that some of the other general managers, some of the vice principals, have kept the apartments empty... so as not to be disturbed by the noise under their quarters... that another assistant general manager has united two apartments into one house... and yet many officers are waiting for a residence. If you know anything about this, I want to know what the situation is. Second: Again, Mr. General Manager's son has claimed to benefit from companies who have received a donation under the name Ankara Demirspor Club. Is that true? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0073par0231	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0074par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: We have seven questions about the 25th of November 2011, the Izmit Gulf Pass and the Bursa-Balayesir-Izmir Highway Project, which we haven't received an answer to. In the same way, on January 4, 2013, I asked seven questions in the Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir Highway Project about changing Lake Uluabat as the Karacabey highway, but so far I've had no answers. I want information on this, I want answers. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0075par0236	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0076par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when is Project Bursa-Billy Speed Train coming to life? In 2010, you gave me the news that we were going to do the foundation auction for the scholarship-Newşehir line, but in 2012 it was only possible to get thrown out. When is this scholarship-New City line infrastructure going to end? Is the project for the New City-Billy line finished? When will his tender be held? Later, when will the auctions of the upper structures be held, and how does this appear in your programs? So, basically, what are the chances that we'll come from Bursa to Ankara by fast train, by your prediction, at what dates? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0077par0244	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0078par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Ankara-Adana-Gaziantep is one of the most busy lines of passengers. Are you planning on running a high-speed train on this line? Second question, Mr. Secretary, what is this high-speed train, what is a fast train? Now I've looked at the area of the definitions, which has not been defined, only the high-speed train, and the fast train terms. Is there such a thing as a high - speed train in the world? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0079par0250	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0080par0252	Minister, some of the work you've done under the name of privatisation or under the name of liberalisation has been done in England, Argentina, Canada, and there have been some serious returns around here. Despite these comebacks, do you still wish to continue this liberation? I mean, it's been tried there; there's been some serious accidents, some serious security issues. We went through a process where the number of employees fell from 55,000 workers to 28,000 workers. In the meantime, security for subcontractors will be even lower. We're wondering how you're going to provide this security. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0079par0254	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Dawn, please.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0081par0256	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Seyfettin just asked for the Possum-Camera way. In fact, for a year I've been asking for the Pineyard-Post Road. There's been a lot of trouble for a year, and it's not over. We'd like you to make an urgent attempt on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0079par0258	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, I'd like to answer the questions. Mr. Halaman, I understand that the State Railways are selling everything they have, selling the future, asking what will happen? State Railways have over 100 billion Turkish liras in infrastructure, real estate, inventory. The State Railways won't sell any land unless they have to. He does joint projects in cities only with municipalities, local governments, or some public institutions; he creates projects to bring them into the city, to make them the city's lungs. And with this law, there is no sale, and the infrastructure of the railways is aimed at opening to the private sector. Mr. Yilmaz, Turkish Armed Forces cannot be removed from the borders. The safety of our country is always indispensable, our most important priority. In that respect, whatever the circumstances, all of our security elements, including the armed forces, for the unity and unity of our country and security of the entire nation, have always protected these borders in the past for 24 hours, and will then continue to protect them. No one has to worry about it or hesitate. Mr. Dawn raised a question about it through Piner-Ninde. The study between the Niğde-Camard part is complete. The 22km section between Piner-Palish is also being completed this year. If all goes well, we'll complete it. Mr. Cetin, how many houses does the General Manager use? Are the Lojmans united and raised? And the son of the general manager, sir, raised a question for Ankara Demirspor. The general manager lives in a single apartment right now, which is what I know, and the intel confirms it. He was evacuated because there was a flood in one of the homes where the vice principals lived. As you know, it is not legally possible for them to help sports organizations associated with institutions' structures with legal regulations. Therefore, Ankara Demirspor will not receive donations directly and indirectly from railway-related organisations in any way.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0082par0265	Look into it, Mr. Secretary. We'll look into them again and give you more information. Mr. Irony, I'm sorry about your questions. It's really late to answer. We'll make it up to you as soon as we can. It's, you know, for the Istanbul-Izmir highway...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0083par0268	Mr. Secretary, you don't have to answer at all, these AKP people are covering everything up. I also promised to inform you about the passage to Lake Uluabat for the Istanbul-Izmir highway, but we couldn't do it, you're right. But as a result of the work, the transition has been decided from the north. Two routes were worked. The main reason here is that wetlands in the south need to be protected, due to an obligation brought by the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs and the international Ramsar Convention.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0084par0270	There's Ramsar in the north too, Mr. Secretary. He's crossing the border, crossing the border. That's the plain, that's the plain. Yes, Mr. Özensoy, as you know, the construction of the Yenişehir-Bursa section of the Bursa-Billy railway has been done; the other part is the project of the New City-Billy connection. Is it done, guys? The project? It's incomplete. It's not over yet, it'll be over in June, and we'll be bidding on that part this year. As you know, this is a very difficult area, especially between New City-Billy. Therefore, the work here will continue for at least three and a half or four years. If all goes well, then we aim to open like 2016, 2017. So we won't be able to see it in your Ministry. Someone's going to finish it. In government, continuity is essential; the important thing is to start, and everything that happens is eventually finished. The past decade has proved that many projects have been finished, many new ones have been started. Mr. Serindağ, I've answered this before, in fact, in the previous session. 2023 is a railway route that leads to Adana, Mersin, and Aleppo through Adana-Karaman, through Adana-Antep...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0085par0281	Mr. Secretary, then take Turkey around, and that's how it's going to be. No, that's the best route. Sir, that's not a high-speed train. I'll say it now, if you'll excuse me. Please. Now, on that line, all the lines are like this. What's a fast train, what's a high-speed train, let's divide it first. For those with speeds of 250 kilometers and above, the high-speed train is referred to as the speedy train, up to 250, up to 160 to 250, the fast train, and the less than 160, the conventional train. On this line, there are speeds ranging from 160 to 250 in the region, so this is called a high-speed train route and a high-speed train route.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0086par0287	No one's past 250. Where is it? No one's past 250, that's true, but it could be the last 250 right now. We have taken 50, we have increased it to 250, and there will be no objections to 350. It's not HHT, it's a fast train. No, sir, 250 kilometers per hour is the start of a high-speed train. It's the beginning... But included. So that's the definition. It's not in, it's not in. Including Sir. That's the definition. You said it. You said it. Let's change the international definition. UIC, International Railways... 250 kilometers included, 250 kilometers... That's average speed, Mr. Secretary. Anyway, let's talk about it. If we're talking 250km today when we're not talking 100km in Turkey, it's a good development for our country.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0087par0300	Now, sir, will there be a high-speed train for Gaziantep, or not? The high-speed train and the fast train will be together. Will there be a high-speed train or not? There will be a fast train. High-speed train... No, it's gonna be a roller coaster.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0088par0306	Mr. Secretary, your time is up. We've been on the sidelines for two minutes. Yes, thank you. We'll answer the others in writing. Sorry we're out of time. Mr. Ali has taken up so much of our time, we couldn't answer. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. The 10th, (2)th, (3)th, and (4)th jokes of the 10th article in the second chapter of the Law Bill 441, under a group proposal adopted in the 92nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 16/4/2013, will be voted separately. For your information, I'd like to retrace your steps. Now, there are three motions on Article 10 (1). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 10 of the Law Charter (1) in the following way regarding the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport. Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Lütfü Türkkan Mehmet Şandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu MADDE 10- (1) 8/6/1984's "Iron Roads" was changed to the "Iron Ways" in the "Constructional Partnerships" section of "B-KAMU Constructions" under the rule of the Law on Public Economic Oppositions No. 233. Turkish Republic State Railways Transport Incorporated (TCDD Transport A.Ş.) It's been added. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th edition of the 441 Rows Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. İdris Baluken Nazmi Gür Husamettin Zenderlioğlu "MEDDE 10- (1) (1) 8/6/1984 section "B-CAMU BUILDINGS" (TIK) on the additional list of Public Economical Initiatives No. 233 "Responsive Ministry : Development, Marinery and Intelligence Republic of Turkey, 1st Republic of Turkey, 1st Republic of Turkey Car Industry State Railways Inc. [[TIVASASH]] Executive General 2. Turkey Engine and Directorate (TCDD) Motor Industry Inc. [[TILOMSAD]] 3. Turkish Railway Machines Industrial Incorporated. [[TIDEMSAD]] 4. State of the Republic of Turkey His company (TCDD Transport Inc.) Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 1 of Article 10 of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the draft text of the First Amendment. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Ali Serindağ Turgay Camel Flood Köse Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We don't agree, sir. Government? We can't participate. Who's gonna talk? Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0089par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I will not speak of our patriotic soldiers today, from the head of our U-boat Project, the head of our U-boat Project, to our colonel, who is being tried in a military espionage trial last week. Today, again, I'm not going to talk about our troops from the southeast, from the east. Today, again, I will not speak of the words of Abdullah Ocalan, who says, "It will not be one-sided, nor will it be two-sided, in the reports of Imralı, which are published in the daily Milliyet. Again, on the 93rd anniversary of our Parliament, I will not mention our MPs who have been imprisoned in prison for nearly five years. Today I'm going to tell you a little bit about Chorum in the context of the railroad. My dear friends, Çorum, you know, is one of the most prominent cities in which they are described as Anadoli tigers. I'd like to share with you that the Republic of Turkey -- apart from its war years -- is one of its fastest growing cities, which has done much more growth than the average growth. My dear friends, the stock economy has grown above the average of Turkey's economy, especially since the 1970s. Chorum, who made this growth, has taken virtually no advantage of state investments or state contributions. In this sense, in 1957, the Corrum Cement Factory has been privatized in recent years, many of its workers have been laid off, and its contribution to the shipping industry has also disappeared. Again, the sugar factory, which was built in 1991, was first tried to be privatized, and will terminate its operation with the Candy Law that will come to parliament in the coming days after the trial said ▪ Stop. So Chorum is a city that does not benefit from government investments. There are no airports in our stock. In fact, there is an airport in Çorum, but an airport that is 45 percent finished today is a place where animals are grazing. Unfortunately, there are no railways in the stocks. Not even land travel is sufficient until the 1970s. So, Chorum has been spent on the fact that the CEO, the businessman, the worker, the master, has been absent. As I'm trying to tell you, outside of the state economic model, the private sector has a story that, despite all the obstacles that have been developed by the hands of the private sector, despite the lack of support, it's a story that deserves to be motivated, motivated from Europe to Asia, from Africa to America, from Africa to America, from Africa to all over the world, to the four corners of the world, to support, to be motivated, to be motivated. My dear friends, Stockum must be supported because the Stock has the power to pay more for this country with its support, its value. The stock must be supported because it has historical and cultural significance as the center of the Hititian civilization. Again, Çorum is in a very important geography between Ankara and Samsun, the capital port of the Black Sea. It has an industry that produces and exports, which has powerful traditions, which are more than importing exports, which gave 45 million dollars more exports last year, which also contributes to the current deficit. The stock is a city with branded products, a city with products that have a say in market share across the country. Example: The stock is a city in Turkey that provides 40 per cent of the need for tiles, 10 per cent of the brick needs, and 25 per cent of the exports of eggs. It is a city in which the winners of the Most, again, have contributed to the Corum, and to the economy of the Most. My dear friends, Çorum, is a city with machines and industry in all parts of the world, especially in the defense industry. In this sense, what Corrum needs is the immediate fulfillment of a railway road to Corrum, which this Assembly will contribute to. I hereby offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0090par0365	Thank you, Mr. Köse. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke of Article 10 of the 441 Numbered Bill be changed in the following way. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends "MEDDE 10- (1) (1) 8/6/1984 section "B-CAMU BUILDINGS" (TIK) on the additional list of Public Economical Initiatives No. 233 "Responsive Ministry : Development, Marinery and Intelligence Republic of Turkey, 1st Republic of Turkey, 1st Republic of Turkey Car Industry State Railways Inc. [[TIVASASH]] Executive General 2. Turkey Engine and Directorate (TCDD) Motor Industry Inc. [[TILOMSAD]] 3. Turkish Railway Machines Industrial Incorporated. [[TIDEMSAD]] 4. State of the Republic of Turkey His company (TCDD Transport Inc.) Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. I'm having it read. A decree issued in 1984 and the public enterprises were separated on the basis of the public service and the public service. In this framework, the public banks were regarded as the Public Economics Foundation, with the right decision by the Economic Development Party (TCDD). The TCDD, which is obliged to provide public service, should be based on the quality of public service, not on profitability and commerciality. A public service service cannot be the work of an institution run on the basis of profitability. The transport service can be provided with the services of a public institution that will ensure the fulfillment of public service. The beginning of the path to privatisation is also evident from examples so far, where public service has become increasingly commercialized, by market regulations, and by the introduction of profitability. Therefore, the status change includes a change that will pave the way for the institution's privatisation, as does the quality of public service. The change we propose is intended to prevent that. So, 10. The matter must be changed the way we propose. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 10 of the Law Charter (1) in the following way regarding the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends MADDE 10- (1) 8/6/1984's "Iron Roads" was changed to the "Iron Ways" in the "Constructional Partnerships" section of "B-KAMU Constructions" under the rule of the Law on Public Economic Oppositions No. 233. Turkish Republic State Railways Transport Incorporated (TCDD Transport A.Ş.) It's been added. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0091par0410	Mr. President, I salute your grand delegation, the esteemed MPs of the Turkish nation. At the beginning of my words, I'd like to convey to Mr. Minister a request from Osmaniye: in the name of the villagers of Çina, the Tsardak, the non-Albanian Mukhtar İbrahim Ceylan, crossing double roads between our villages and our lands, and we can't get through this double route, we can't get through our fields, we can't get through with our tractors. Can the Minister find a solution to this? They have a request. On the other hand, with our motion, we demand that the state railways of the Republic of Turkey be identified and preserved as a public economic institution, not because of the economic state. I hope it will be accepted by your high council. Since the day they were founded, AKP governments have been remembered with the most tender and privatisation. Turkey met the concept of privatisation -- ten years after Europe -- in the 1980s. The state of the Republic of Turkey has focused on two main issues in privatisation at this time: privatisation of damaged public-owned enterprises, and the other is the use of revenues from privatisation to debt, financing deficits, investment spending to increase business costs, not to increase employment. By the time the AKP came to its governments, there was a number of privatisations that did not reach $10 billion, and about $38 billion was privatised in AKP's 11-year rule. Despite the idea of the 1980s, the AKP has sold out all institutions in its privatisations, without damaging or critical or non-criminal discrepancy. In fact, he privatized some privatized institutions, not because they were damaged, but because they were demanding supporters. The AKP's privatisation file is fiscally damaged, and legally questionable, given the value of privatisation of both privatised institutions and who they are. Respected lawmakers use the tender method when making state purchases and sales. The intention of using the tender method is not that the government doesn't know where to buy the goods or who to sell the goods to, but that it is due to the principle of equality and justice among its clients, the goal of competitively buying quality goods cheaply. Privatisations include a tender sale of government values. During its 11 years in power, the AKP has been commemorated with doubts about the tender and privatisation. In the tender law, the purchases held outside the scope of the AKP are limited to 3 pencils when it comes to power, while today there are only 30 ▪ public imports, which have been excluded from the tender law. I want to make it clear from here that every tender you've made with transparency and competition will result in less spending money belonging to the state and the nation and more quality goods. By increasing the exception of public purchases, by eliminating transparency and competition, every purchase you make is a result of the waste of public resources and of poor purchases. This is where the orphan's rights are really won. In this way, it is the majority of the Parliament that has changed both the government and the tender laws that want the tender legislation to be so. This plague will be asked in the court of justice, whether you live or die. With a change in the Privatisation Act last year, the Council of Ministers has been able to renegotiate the privatisation process, which has been cancelled by a judicial decree. So the privatisation process, which has been sold at a lower price than the value of the judiciary, or has been cancelled on grounds of irregularity in its sale, is valid by a Council of Ministers decision. As a matter of fact, many privatisations that have been cancelled by the judiciary after this legal arrangement has been made have been revived by the decision of the Council of Ministers. One of the most fundamental principles of the legal state is the judicial control of the rule of law. In this way the Prime Minister sold to his in-laws for $1,100,000, a year by his in-laws, which was determined to have profited $9-10 million, which had been cancelled by the judiciary at the end of a year, with reports of collecting $9-10 million in profits from the Prime Minister's yesterday, but not being picked up by the Prime Minister, and the most obvious example of the concept of privatisation of Balıkesir SEKA AKP. And that is the right of an orphan. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, when you privatize the State Railways, are you going to give it to your friends in these ways? Do you know if these dudes are prepared or not? With these thoughts, I wish the bill well, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0092par0423	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0093par0424	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit02spe0092par0425	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision, sir. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0092par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu and his friends' motion was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, and the motion has been rejected. Now, I will present to you the (1)th joke of the 10th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We continue the talks of Bill 441. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion that I'm going to read on Article 10 of (2): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the release of the bill of law on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport from the draft of Article 2 of Article 10 of the Article 10 of the Law. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu İzzet Çetin Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Ali Serindağ Turgay Develi Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0094par0023	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th joke of the 10th article of the current Law Bill 441 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, the privatisations that really began in our country began after September 12th, and began with transformation, transformation, transformation, specialization, called in the 80s, 90s, and now in the name of freeing, state-building, public service is now being taken out of the hands of many of our institutions. Sometimes the method of disposing is open sales, sometimes the public supply, sometimes in other forms, and now it's called emancipation. Of course, in his statement last week, the Minister began by praising the Railways, but I'm curious to know how he's absorbed in the liberalisation of this institution. Dear friends, the public is bad, the private is good. The logic brought this country to these points. One institution is lost, the ports are gone, the airlines are gone, the railroads are free. It started with Meat and Fish, the factories were sold, the fields, the land, and the railroads are being marketed. Now, I'd like to remind you of the recent fall of the Ottomans, and I'd like to read you a short article after I've told you why this clause should be removed with two sentences instead of a lot of talking here. Dear friends, on one hand you're building a new staff, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance is playing separate strings, the other ministers are playing separate strings. You encourage people who need to leave their workplaces, and you increase their retirement army by giving them 40 percent of what's going on in three years, 25 percent of what's up to five years, 30 percent of what's going on, 40 percent of what's right to get pensions, 40 percent of what's right for them. The point you've endured in doing so is, unfortunately, it's not even from the Prime Minister of the Government; it's in the report that you've received, which you've had prepared for the Canadian company CANAC and IBM; I think all lawmakers may have access to what you need to do. I would like to share with you an article in the magazine Marcho paşa, which was written sixty-seven years ago by Sabahtin Ali, which had been wrongfully terminated by Ali. The newspapers are having a blast giving this weather. Official authorities are willing to make it easier for foreign money to enter the country. When this capital comes, the asphalt roads will go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Well, what was the effort to get rid of foreign capital for 40 years? I remember now. I was just a five-six-year-old boy. The mobilization had begun. In order to make this bloody adventure seem cute to the public, the adventurous government of that time played drums in the streets and shouted: "Capitizations have been lifted! " The whole nation is at peace! And in the campaign for four years, then three years after that, we were told that we were fighting to get rid of the half-committee that foreign capital dragged us. The most honorable part of Lausanne was that he saved us from foreign capital slavery. Twenty years behind him, we've always tried to shake off this foreign capital. We're having a field day because we got rid of the capital at the mini-Belgian tram company. We had a ceremony because the Izmir water company got rid of foreign capital. We got the gas, we jumped out of our joys, we saved the electricity, we wrote columns in the newspapers. Is that what this is all about? Why did we throw foreign capital out on a wedding holiday? I read the last paragraph: Because it is more difficult to go into a country and throw away foreign capital than to drive foreign armies into the sea, and we know the heirs of the Ottoman Empire better than anyone else. Now, AKP MPs know very well what it means to have the State Railways released as public service, but unfortunately they don't realize they're MPs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0095par0034	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 10th joke of Article (2): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 10 (3) There's a motion on the article I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 10 of Article 3 of Article 10 of Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the text of the bill of law. Haluk Eyidoğan Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0096par0050	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th article of the law. I salute the General Assembly. Although the name of this bill does not pass, we have to accept that it is called emancipation, which is a kind of very private privatisation. Moreover, it is a kind of privatisation that puts infrastructure costs on the back of the public -- the Turkish nation -- privatising business in broad lines, and predicts the running of non-profit lines. The Republic of Turkey has not taken a single step towards protecting the rights of our citizens employed on State Railways, and it is a bill that will lead to subcontractorisation of those who will work at this institution in the future. As we look at the reason for the 5th article, 100 billion Turkish liras appear to be planned in the next decade. This investment will be made with public resources, and it's a very high number, but there's no information as to where this source will be found. Obviously, a citizen will continue to pay for 3 cars to buy 1 car, 4 litres of fuel to buy 1 litre of fuel; in short, he will moan under indirect taxes. Through privatisation, AKP governments have achieved $38 billion and $300 million in revenues so far, under the name of privatisation, bloc sales, facilities and property sales, public supply, sale in the Istanbul Stock Exchange, the sale of unfinished facilities. The income from 2/B applications is out of the question. There are no more public deposits except for the treasures to be sold. Only 473,000 hectares of treasure land remain, and after the AKP government has finished its work, it will come to this. In the 11-year period of AKP power, all of which, along with questionable and abusive tenders and other methods, has been drawn into the private sector, if I may say so, along with foreign-source partners. Even the health industry is sold to international cartels. So, what's been sold? Foreign debt is increasing, increasing by threefold according to 2002, budget deficits are continuing, one-time VATs are now well established every year, and the economy is getting worse and worse. Dear friends, hundreds of years ago, Confucius said that while there was no sense of justice or justice, it was one of the greatest crimes to hide his injustices behind adornment and shining grounds. Have the AKP governments, who pay such heavy taxes, sell and spend so much money irresponsibly, been successful in the economy? The answer is a huge no. In the 19th century, when we looked at the spirit of this draft, Europeans were pressuring the Ottomans to obtain the railway privileges. The profits of companies were guaranteed by the Ottoman State under the guarantee of the kilometer. The British were the lead. Today we're looking at the same painting. AKP's admiration for the Ottomans continues to grow exponentially. Maybe there's no obvious leading man, but the game is the same game, the players are changing, but the characters are the same character. There is still no reliable and transparent explanation for how privatisation revenues are being evaluated today. As this draft is drawn up, practices in other countries and the results of these are not considered at all. In our country, railway transport has always been neglected. AKP governments have used their preferences to transport roads and have not invested enough. The road, however, is both more expensive and shorter and less efficient in carrying cargo. This law has no use for our country, for Turkey. Those who have set this law before us have proved once again that they are following instructions rather than thinking about the good of the country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0097par0060	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes Article 10 (3) those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion that I'm going to read on Article 10 (4)'s fourth joke: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the release of the draft draft of Article 10 of the Article 10 of the Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Ali Serindağ Mehmet Hilal Kaplan İlhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree. Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0098par0076	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs celebrate National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd, honoring and honoring Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave this beautiful day to the children of the world. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in the 10th article of the Law Bill (4) on the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport, which is currently held in 441 rows. I salute you all with respect and love. The liberalisation of Turkey's railway transport, privatisation in a different term, is one of the inconsistencies of this government. The Istanbul Sea Bus Company (IDO) was privatised, but the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality established the Business of the Bursa Sea Bus. Why? İstanbul-Bursa-Izmir started the highway, the railway was put on the project during the Gulf crossing, but then this railroad was removed from the project during the Gulf crossing. Here's what we're having trouble understanding: Why did he withdraw? Istanbul-Bursa, wasn't that necessary for Istanbul-Izmir's fast train line and also required at least 40 miles of savings? I just want to say that we're having a hard time understanding these things. There was a quick train contract, and the work started, but friends, the exact route is unclear. AKP Bursa MPs have yet to agree on the station, or rather, I would like to say that there is no real project. Dear lawmakers, in our talks in determining the routes of the Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir highway, our objections have been stated that as Mr. Minister has just stated, all MPs will be interviewed and discussed around a table, but so far we have not had the chance to meet on this issue, and I'm afraid we haven't been able to express our objections here. For example, on the Orhangazi-boat route, I'd like to say that in terms of the descriptions of the agricultural chambers, 100-150,000 olive trees will be cut down. However, I would like to say in particular that there is another alternative, another project, here. Orhangazi, I would also like to say that there will be a 575-declared farmland in Orhangazi, as well as a block like the Great Wall of China between Orhangazi and Lake Iznik. I've just learned from Mr. Secretary that the highway has been taken to the new Bursa-Başköy-Kanaklı-Karacabey-Susurk route. I'd like to point out, folks, that this is a area of first-class farmland, which is a project that runs through Karacabey Agricultural Plains. 8.090 per cent of this section, 6,150 decedents, completely absolute farmland. There's an investment in State Water Affairs at 4,390. Five kilometers through TIGEM territory, but, unfortunately, we couldn't stop it from crossing these first-class farmlands. To the south of Uluabat, according to the Ramsar Convention, all technical staff, all NGOs expressed that this project would be much more comfortable, but unfortunately we couldn't convince the Minister and the respected bureaucrats. There's something else we can't convince you of, dear friends. Apart from this project taken to Karacabey Plains, the government has entered into an attitude and behavior: the 13 villages are called collectiveization projects, so that the cost of publicisation will not be paid to the villagers. He wants to say that it's wrong, that this highway does not mean anything in these villages that enhances objective elements, and that I give you all my respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0099par0086	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the tenth joke of Article 10 (4) those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the temporary item one, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 441-Distribution of the 441-Distribution of Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the clause of the Interim 1st Article (2). Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 1 of the Interim Article 1 of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport from the text of substance. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0100par0108	Mr. President, I have made a promise to you regarding the interim Article 1 of Law Bill 441. Now, what does this law contain? But before I speak of this law, I would like to start by reminding myself of two conversations I had last week. Because in my speech last week, I explained to you what was done in the Republic era in the TCDD, the State Railways, and what was done in this case, how the railways belonging to foreigners were nationalized, how the Ottoman debt was paid, and again, when I did so, there was no foreign debt taken. And in my next speech, in your period, in your decade, I explained which national institutions in Turkey have been sold and how much income has been made in return -- about $38 billion in income -- as well as a $118 billion foreign debt -- but in return, you can't build a facility similar to the one of the institutions that we have in the Republic of Turkey. And from here, if you've done these things, come to this stand and explain them. I told you. Yes, I did, but you claim it, and you say, "Ya, why do you say that? That's right, you're making the Gulf crossing. We're building a new airport. You say. That's right, you build new airports, but you don't do them, you do them. Who are you making me do it? You're getting a foreign consortium? How do you get it done? You're doing it because a car goes for $35. I asked the minister this when the third bridge contract was held. No one entered the first tender, he said. They're in a second bid. Mr. Secretary, why did no one enter the first tender? Because we didn't offer private companies enough opportunities to benefit from the consortiums that would enter this tender, he said, and then he said that they were transferring the government from private companies to an additional 22 quadrillion dollars in the sample or figure he gave on guarantee transportation. Now, there's a trick under the name "freedom" that's meant to be brought in by this law. This liberalisation actually divides the existing TCDD, and one of them is put in front of us as traffic regulation and the other as infrastructure services. In fact, when you look at it, it looks very innocent, but five years later, it also cuts off government support and throws it into the lap of the private sector, which makes it ready for sale five years later. We've been here many times. Now, I ask you, our Minister is here, and in a moment, perhaps he will answer: Did you build a new railroad for Bayburt, during your ten-year work? Did you build a new railroad for the stock, or did you bring a new railroad with one other than the provinces that were built until the time of the National Liberation War? If you did, I'll shake your hand. The conventional train line that you could only do in 2011, except for the 888km fast train line, is 39km, and all of that is done in foreign debt. So you're getting loans, like, you're saying this is a citizen who's not going to pay this loan. You're talking about national income every day, but you're not talking about how much more every child's debt has increased in this country. You're going to talk about these things on this bench, we're making the country so in debt when we're doing these things. As we do so, we owe the new unborn child this much. Now, with the privatisation...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0101par0115	She'll pass through.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0100par0116	I'll be there. You're saying there's going to be an increase in employment or there's not going to be any problems with employment. I won't talk about the others, but you've hired 40,000 people, brought them to 31,000 people, you've subcontractored half of them.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0101par0118	Is there not a railway in Tekirdağ, and in Samaria?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0100par0119	My dear brother, don't shout from there, come here, I'll give you my place for two minutes, come here and talk. Come here, come here.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0101par0120	Okay, I'll tell you, I'll answer right away.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0100par0121	You will answer what I say here, come.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0101par0123	Okay, I'll answer.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0102par0124	Mr. Akar, please continue.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0100par0125	Yeah, now, you're just yelling, but the truth hurts, and when you hear the truth, you're just yelling, but I'm telling you, these people are gonna pay for it. Again, what you're saying about privatisation is that we're going to bring in some quality service. You're saying that. I'm going to give an example of my own city, and I'm going to give an example of the privatisation of two institutions, and I have very little time left: one is IRGAZ, and one is SEDAS. In my next speech, I'll tell you about EZGAZ and SEDAS. Now, the Aldermans are here. Those friends of mine don't scream like you do, they listen to me. If they think that's different than what I'm saying, if they think it's wrong, then they'll come back a little later, and they'll take their word, and they'll tell from this stand. I give you all my love, my respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0103par0131	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 441-Distribution of the 441-Distribution of Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the clause of the Interim 1st Article (2). D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0104par0141	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0103par0142	I'm reading the reason: The deadlines require new regulations over time, so it can be binding and restrictive. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the temporary item 2 I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change this law into force, which is included in Article 2 of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport, which is currently held in the current 441 rows. Ayşe Nur Çışkapılı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Osman love Look Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen Tülay Kaynarca == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of 441 Orders of Turkey Railroad Transport be changed to 31/12/2012/2013, which is part of the 2th Article (1) of the Interim Law Charter on Independence. Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Lütfü Türkkan Mehmet Şandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the word "Ministership" shall be replaced with the word "Ministership" and the word "Ministership" shall be replaced with the word "Preparation" in the article 1 of the temporary Article 2 of the Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with my latest motion? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0105par0170	Whose motion, sir?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0103par0171	CHP's motion.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0105par0172	They left it to me to admire.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0103par0173	Yes, he can. Government?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0105par0175	The government is responsible. No, we accept.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0103par0177	They agree, sir. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0106par0179	I'll do the talking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0103par0180	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0106par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, we'll call the right things you've done the right thing. I think it's a good idea that you connect the Department of Transport of the Highways to the Ministry of Transport, but I have a suggestion to you: One day, please go from Ankara to Adana to land, from the contagion intersection to the Eregli intersection, how many times the road has been repaired, why it's been torn and rebuilt, please review the cost of the mile there, Mr. Secretary. Minister, I will come to the bill, but at the weekend I was in Gaziantep, and went to Nizip, and went to Salkım. There's the Adak neighborhood, it's called the neighborhood, but people are farming there. That's where the best walnuts grow, my friends in Gaziantep know. Walnut trees are dry. Do you know why it's dry? The Gaziantep Organised Industrial Region has been expressed to us by peasants, who are now unable to water the Nizip Creek, where the waste, the waste of the Gaziantep Organised Industrial Region, has contaminated the Nizip Creek, and thus have been used as water that was not used in irrigation. This is how the drinking water of the village is contaminated. Of course, Turkey will be industrialized, and we certainly don't object to industrialization. Turkey must industrialize and protect the environment, and we can do both together. We're a civilized country, we have infrastructure, as long as we want it. Please listen to the cries of these citizens. It may not concern your Ministry directly, but you know the government has a joint responsibility. Let's focus on that, please. And let's increase the competitiveness of the Gaziantep investor, his industrialist, make sure that the electricity money used in decontamination is not taken or sold at a small price. Then, in this way, it may be possible for our farmers to return them to agriculture, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, right now, we're concerned about the transportation of the railroad. It should really be important that Turkey delivers railways. You, now, have been in power for 11 years. The railway you set up is still under construction in Ankara-Eskişehir, Eskişehir-Istanbul, and from Polatlı to Konya. Now, do you know how many railroads were built between 1923 and 1940 that you didn't like? 3,208 kilometers. Despite all the absences, the railroad was built in 17 years despite poverty. So first, let's give back the importance of the railways in the founding of the republic. You know, because of a change of concept after 1950, the railroad was pushed to the second plan, but Turkey needs a railroad transport. Now, Mr. Secretary, I hope you'll listen to the cries of our citizens, the people I just told you about. However, we need to consider Gaziantep as a whole. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister Gaziantep has recently made a trip to Gaziantep, and has set Gaziantep as an example for the eastern provinces. We're proud of it. Gaziantep is a model city, yes. From the major cities of Turkey in terms of exports, it is commercially, very alive, has great potential, but Gaziantep is not getting the service it deserves. I've just asked Mr. Secretary, and I said that the Ankara-Adana-Gaziantep line is one of the most passenger-access lines. We're learning that Mr. Secretary's words, unfortunately Gaziantep will not benefit from the high-speed train in any way. Instead, with a word play, sir, the speed train will go... What's the speed train? The express train was a train that did less than 250 kilometers. So why do you call the train to Eskişehir a high-speed train? Travel, speed rises in very few places, maybe over 250 kilometers, usually under 250 kilometers. Now, you've got the concepts of fraud. It's a high-speed train, it's a democracy and so on. Let them go. Instead, let's be realistic and get real services to the citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0107par0193	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of 441 Orders of Turkey Railroad Transport be changed to 31/12/2012/2013, which is part of the 2th Article (1) of the Interim Law Charter on Independence. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0108par0203	You watched Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0107par0204	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0109par0206	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article (1) of Article 2 of the Legislature on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport 441 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute you all. Dear MPs and Mr. Minister, all of Adana's billboards were rented before the 2011 elections, and the Adhanian eye was enlightened, and the train was coming fast to Adana. For days, weeks and weeks. Now, here, I ask the Minister, when is the Adanan waiting for the express train? He says we planned it for 2023. I don't know if he'll come back in 2023. Now you have to ask: do you believe that the fast train that you planned for 2023, by advertising before the election in 2011, is a trick to the people? Now, when we go, the Adanan asks: where is this fast train? But in 2011 all of Adana's billboards are being rented in order to mislead the voters. What kind of election propaganda would that be? I mean, it's all wrong. Again, there is Akören Road in Aladağ district. Look, today's Minister of Tourism Omar Çelik -- before my speech -- is going to Aladağ (Aladağ) in June 2011, says: "Don't worry, I'll get off here now, I'll give the order, there'll be a break between Aladağ and Akören. It's been two years. Now, the citizen is waiting. The people of Aladağ are looking for us, asking us, saying, "What is this our way?" We ask. We planned it, we'll do it... something's being downloaded there, dozers, grapefruits, and then there's no money, no money, no contractors left it, nothing. I mean, it's called tricking the voter, misdirecting the voter, getting the wrong vote. Again, I just asked you, last year, we couldn't get through the dust. There are apple orchards there. Citizens, thousands of citizens are using it as a crossbow area. The Minister says it will be completed. But there, the people are wretched, the people are miserable with their means, the gardens are ruined, the people are miserable. Again, it was said that before the election, there was going to be a Dick-Alpu-Nut-Post break. It's been three years. I'm asking the Minister if this is a promise of election, when it's scheduled, when it's scheduled? I'd like to make this clear. Now, while Mr. Minister of Agriculture was here... as a member of the Agricultural Commission, I traveled the weekend to Bursa, Balıkesir, Izmir, Mughla. Here, the AKP in particular salutes the MPs, the muğla MPs. Look, I'm telling you: 75% of the votes have been cast in Hamitköy, in the village of Olivefield, in the village of AKP. They say this is the ruling party's legislators coming here. For months, years, centuries, a price has been set on this land that we've been running, which we can't afford. Let them come, we voted 65 per cent for this party, but even though we voted for it, people from outside are now coming in and buying our seats at a cheap price from us. You can't buy them with 2/B, sell them to us. Again, in Izmir Sarnic, where our immigrant citizens from Bulgaria live, thousands of our citizens are miserable, the defendant with the forest service, 2/B or not. Again, let the AKP's İzmir MPs go to Sarnic and listen to those citizens. They voted for you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0110par0213	We're leaving.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0109par0214	Go, then, to a Sarnic, and you will see what you will find. Now, I want to ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture: he comes up here, he gets a document, we give him this in 2002, we don't support it, we don't know, we do this. I say to Mr. Minister of Agriculture -- look, I'm a member of the Agriculture Commission -- "Come, let's go together to those farmers in Çukurova, let's go to the farmers in Mersin, we'll go to the farmers in Muğla, I'll challenge them, but Mr. Minister says: "I went to Çukurova. Do you know who I went to?" The AKP's state department is doing a program to the AKP executive, along with Mr. Minister, with many party members, the farmer's condition is very good in Çukurova. Look, the farmer's crying blood. The farmer is unable to pay his bank loans right now. For the first time, in the most fertile land in the world, like Çukurova, they say: "This is the first time in our history that we've fallen to a loan shark. I couldn't pay for it because of the drought, it's been postponed for two years, now it's up to $25 billion. I paid 25 billion liras. He says. You have a Minister of Fracturing.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0111par0216	Atalay, Atalay...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0109par0217	Atalay, Atalay, it's, it's, it's, it's opening.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0112par0218	Be respectful.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0109par0219	I wrote a letter to Bashir Atalay, and no one cares about my... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He says, "Do I have to burn myself in the garden of the people?" Yes, he also called Ramadan Can. So we're dealing with a painting of a peasant, a citizen in this situation. So don't show any signs around here. If you can afford it, let's go to the farmer and go to the farmer together. He called you, too. Ramazan Can sent it to the manager of the agricultural bank. And the manager of the agricultural bank scolded him, and he's gone. He was here, now, just now...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0113par0224	Mr. President, I want to fix something. Once we don't have a village called Karakechili, it's a karakechi district. The tribe of the Ottomans, the founder of the Ottomans...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0109par0225	I'm talking about a headman in Karakechi district, Süleyman Canbolat...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0114par0226	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0113par0227	In particular, we don't have a village, we have a town called Karakeçili.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0114par0228	Okay, fine. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change this law into force, which is included in Article 2 of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport, which is currently held in the current 441 rows. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we commend you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0115par0236	Mr. President... Mr. Secretary, there's no information on the motive, of course, but it's on the 31/12/2012 thing. Was debt used between these dates, or was it a need, or was it a precaution? EMPLOYEMENT, AUDIENCE AND AUDIENCE IN THE SECURITY OF THE BINAL.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0116par0239	Does the government agree with the motion? We agree.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0117par0241	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0116par0242	Motive... For large investments by the TCDD, which it has made and will continue to make, it must be cleared of its debts to ensure the ease of credit use due to international loan use. The need to change the law by considering the time spent in the process of law enforcement. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the temporary clause 2, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the temporary item three, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "interim Article 1" in the temporary article 3 of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport be replaced by the term "interim Article 1" in the statement. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "restricted to the end of the fifth year" clause (1) of the Interim 3 article on the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport shall be changed to "the end of the decade." Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Mehmet Şandir Lütfü Türkkan Necati Özensoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the temporary 3 of the 441 Rows Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Assad Canan Sebahat Tuncel Ertugrul Furçı Fair Kurt Idris Bauken Erol Dora At least ten years of TCDD from the time this Law was enforced; A) the financing of investments outside of what is stated in Article 5 B) Financial deficits in the maintenance and repair budget, C) TCDD transport Inc.Its deficits, due to capital transfers to 'are covered by the Undersecretary of Treasury. (2) Investments into the public investment programme will be completed by TCDD before the adoption of this Law. (3) TCDD Transport A.C., under temporary Article 1 provisions, within three months of the TCDD investment programme, attracting and attracting vehicles.It'll be handed over to 'em." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0118par0276	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0116par0277	I'm reading the reason: This is part of TCDD's income/guider balance and the status intended to be replaced for profit purposes. An invisible face of privatisation will be performed if this matter is accepted as it is. Because railway management is a business that requires big investments. So these investments are not investments that can be fulfilled by the private sector. The limitation of the envisioned financial support with this clause for 5 years may cause investments to fail and be left incomplete. This will affect traffic security negatively. Therefore, temporary Article 3 must be changed in the way we propose. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "restricted to the end of the fifth year" clause (1) of the Interim 3rd article on the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport shall be changed to "the end of the decade." Necati Özensoy (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree. Mr. Özensoy, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0119par0291	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the temporary Article 3 of the Bill of the Law on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport 441 rows. I salute you all. Of course, in this motion, we're actually relaxing the Minister's hand, so we predicted that the five-year support would be increased to ten years here, but Mr. Secretary, for some reason, stated that he disagreed. Of course, since the railroads have been established, the state has so far had to support and support the development of the railways in Turkey, in fact, we see that it has not been developed in the most desirable way. In this sense, it is necessary to express again that the damaged Turkish Republic Railways need support. 10. It's expressed in the March of the Year. We built the motherland from four beginnings. But the following developments were not, unfortunately, not enough investments were made, but more land roads were cared for. In fact, 58, 59, 60 -- so, these governments -- they're always bragging about their programs -- they're talking about their services in the construction of highways or double roads. Of course, when you say railroad, don't just think about speed trains, passenger transport, public transportation. Perhaps this law seems to be a law that could pave the way for the private sector to use railway tracks or services in order to further develop railway transport in this sense, but what's more important is the development of the railway networks. Look, I'd like to ask you this, as Mr. Bursa MP, in this sense, the 4th largest province of Turkey, and it's also in the middle of Ankara, Istanbul and İzmir triangles. At the same time, he was in the 2nd position in exports, a city in which he was competing with him. But although logistics is also very good, although there is an important point to be developed, there is no railway transport in Burma, so there is no railway transport in Istanbul, Ankara, in the middle of the Izmir triangle. When we look at both transport and public transportation, it has been a real failure that these services have been absent for years. In that sense, at least I asked Mr. Secretary about the development of projects related to the roller coaster that started. Well, from the Minister's statement -- mathematically -- it's perceived as 2017, but at this rate, if we look at the rate the infrastructure projects run out and their tenders continue, in 2020, if the fast train comes to Bursa, I want to say that I accept this speed and its outcome as a success. Of course, at the same time, I think it's imperative that the transport of burdens -- as I have expressed -- come as soon as possible. Of course, we also know and see that there are not too many investments made in Bursa, in other roads. The mezites, they've been falling down for, like, ten years, this place is falling apart, and we're still looking forward to it being over. As a man who's been on this road since 1979, I already know that the Trouble is in the Mezits. Two-thirds of it, the freeway... the freeway that we left in the last ten years of the 57th government, is still said to have been completed by one-third for eleven years, almost complete. I mean, I'm thinking that he's in charge of cities that don't get what he deserves in terms of shipping, for the railroad and for the road. I would like to ask the Minister to give these investments from here to Bursa, as soon as possible, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0120par0299	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "interim Article 1" in the temporary article 3 of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport be replaced by the term "interim Article 1" in the statement. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0121par0311	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, of course, I'm here to talk a little bit about Erzincan while I find you and not the privatisation of the State Railways. Mr. Minister, Erzincan, you know, they love you very much, and we love you, too. Erzincan people have a love for you. We've already seen that in the 2011 elections. In the 2011 elections, Erzincan, even if you weren't too much yourself, you took the pictures and the votes with you, because they loved you, everyone... we love you, too, like I said. But there's one thing about Erzincan, and I'm going to say a word to him, Minister, he says: "There is a king." I told them a little bit, and they said, "He's got poison." They said, "I'm thirsty." I talked a little bit, and they said, "He's puking his poison." Mr. Minister, Erzincan doesn't say much either. There's a lot of talk about you in Erzincan, and everyone's using your name. I'm pretty sure you didn't do it, and I'm pretty sure you didn't, but unfortunately, in everything that's been done in Erzincan, our Minister says that's what the Minister wants, that's what the Minister said, that's what the Minister said, that we should hire people, that's what you're all used to do. It's being done consciously, and I'm afraid we see it all over the place, Mr. Secretary. The last time I talked to the court was last week when the law was being discussed -- we saw it very clearly in the hiring of men at the courthouse. In any other procedure, we see it clearly. That's my first complaint, Minister. The second thing I'm going to say is that there's been a huge injustice to the zoning in Erzincan. A citizen just called, and you know where these public residences are, where the markets are now, and the tradesman in here is in a mess, and they're not bringing any solutions to the mayor, even though we're passing them on to the city officials. It's a simple thing. He drives other things the same way. Of course, our most important problem here is the State Hospital in Erzincan. As of May 1st, he will be completed with the state hospital's financial research hospital. State Hospital will be the second step again. And when there's a second step, I'm afraid there's no way that hospital's gonna stand. They've destroyed the emergency part you know now, they've built the parking lot, they've officially solved Erzincan Τ's parking problem, Mr. Secretary. I don't know, you know? He needs a hospital there as soon as possible, but unfortunately they don't. Now that the hospital's number of doctors has dropped, I'm afraid patients can't be examined. We used to say here that Erzincan is taking patients from environmental districts, surrounding villages, surrounding cities. At the moment, patients from Erzincan are going to the hospital, which Mr. Silverhane MP praised here, which Aydın Doğan gave them as a gift. It's reversed now, Mr. Secretary. Really, Erzincan is going to Kelkit. Well, that's good, too, but that's not gonna happen in a place like our Erzincan. We need to take care of this as soon as possible, and, you know, in two months, three months, when he wants to, we need to get to the emergency side of the hospital as soon as possible. We need to work on that.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0122par0316	It comes from Tripoli, and from Samsun.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0121par0317	Oh, yeah, that's great, look. We're bragging, and so are we. You've been bragging about it. I thought you were bragging about the hospital. There's a citizen who couldn't get in from the hospital. You made the Celts a little ignorant. He's going to that hospital, here, sick from Erzincan. Whatever. Mr. Secretary, we'd like to take a precaution on this matter as soon as possible, and this needs to be taken. Erzincan is also one of the biggest problems -- okay, it provides good employment, but it's in ASSISTT. You really need to get your hands on it. The working conditions are very bad at Erzincan Assistt. The kids, they're literally having a mental breakdown, in their ears, and I talked to a patient today, and his hearing rate is down by 50 percent. Because they run it 11 hours a day. Even though they've been activated for 11 hours, their resting space is very limited, limited time. And also about the salary -- you know, you probably know that, Mr. Secretary -- he's got a fall in him, and he's not getting enough. Besides, like I said, there's been a lot of pressure, especially since they're making a move to form a union. And in this matter, Minister, I want you to take precautions. Mr. Minister, it has nothing to do with you, but since there are so many phone calls today, I'm going to tell my members of Erzurum, my fellow citizens: Erzurum, you know, the old bus station there and the village service buildings have been privatized and given to another firm. Especially the citizen is wondering, they say there are two mosques in here. What will they do with these mosques? Will the mosques fall down or not? If you bring this up in public, we'd appreciate it if we could get some information. And lastly, Mr. Secretary, I need you to give me a direct order, especially about the hospital, as soon as possible, because the physicians are trying to get out of here right now. What we have to say about the law is already said by friends. I wish him well. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0123par0325	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 3, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the temporary item four, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the "10th" of the "5th" declaration of the Interim 4th Article (1) of the 441th Amendment on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport to the "10th" and (2) "5" in the fifth joke. Ali Halaman Seyfetttin Yilmaz Lütfu Türkkan D. Ali Torlak Mehmet Şandir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article II from the text of Article II of the bill on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport. Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Serindağ Turgay Develi Haydar Akar Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the Temporal 4 of the 441 Rows Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. İbrahim Bizarre Sebahat Tuncel Fair Wolf İdris Baluken Ertugrul Kukçı Erol Dora "TCDD Transport Inc.support of ' AT LEAST ten years of TCDD transport from the time this Law was enforced.'; a) financing investments in investment programmes B) Financial deficits in the business budget, C) The difference between the fiscal financing deficit and the operating budget is covered by the capital TCDD. (2) Public Service obligation, TCDD Transport Inc. for ten years. It's done by." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Is there anyone to talk to, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0124par0358	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0123par0359	I'm reading the reason: This is part of the TCDD's income/gor balance and the desired status to be replaced for profit purposes. An invisible face of privatisation will be performed if this matter is accepted as it is. Because railway management is a business that requires big investments. So these investments are not investments that can be fulfilled by the private sector. The limitation of the envisioned financial support with this clause for 5 years may cause investments to fail and be left incomplete. This will affect traffic security negatively. Therefore, Interim Article 4 must be changed in the way we propose. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article II from the text of Article II of the bill on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu (Trabzon) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0125par0373	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in my earlier speech, I said I'd give examples of privatisation, especially from my town, but from here, I'd have to give the Minister of Transport the rights. He's trying, he's trying to get the roller coasters. We're not against this, we want Turkey to be equipped with fast trains, but please be careful, don't condemn our future to strangers and don't borrow so much, try to build this country with the main resources. Secondly, you stood by the promise you made regarding the quarry in Shushukiya, and that quarry is not being used today. I want to thank you for that. Of course, this quarry doesn't hold up, but actually you did well because we have a Mayor of Main Kent, the Mayor of the Metropolitan, did you know what he said to your friend, your fellow congressman, a friend of yours, about the fact that Mashukiya quarry wasn't being used? I don't want to pronounce it from here. I want to thank you for not actually using this quarry, and thank you for not turning our female congressman into what she wanted, the way the mayor accused her of. Now, I said I'd talk about employment. With privatisation, the employment of 45,000 on the State Railways has dropped to 30,000 today, and will be further down with the incentives you bring back. Now, does privatisation increase employment in Turkey? No, it doesn't increase, privatisation doesn't increase employment. What's he doing? It reduces to less, and today a slave has turned the country into a labor country because 47 percent of 18 million families today work for a minimum wage or under a thousand TL. So privatisation in terms of employment doesn't have much to do with this country. Well, we said quality service. I told you, I'm going to give you two examples, one is SEDAS, one is AZMAZ. These two have been privatized. What's to be done? If these two institutions are lacking in service, the ruling MPs and opposition lawmakers must explain these shortcomings and make efforts to address them. But what are my fellow lawmakers doing? He's a lawyer for the city of two institutions that make this place special. It says: "No, sir, these serve well." Look, THE EZGAZ has been privatized. Turkey has three distribution companies related to natural gas, EZGAZ. What did he say the other day, the Prime Minister, about the capital gas? He saw $1.5 billion, said he wouldn't give it to me for $1 billion, 162 million, but the buyer gave it to me when his friend came out. Now, he said that about the capital gas. How, though, was the natural gas company in Alexei privatized? The capital gas has a subscription of about one fifth. But it's an industrial area. More than 200 million cubic metres of gas per year is being spent on the capital's natural gas, the capital gas has been privatized from natural gas over 200 million cubic metres of years and this ISGAZ gas has been privatized by the Metropolitan Municipality for $529 million, and he said that when we gave it to the French, we gave you our daughter. We beg him to bring natural gas grids to our towns, villages, various parts of the city, so that people can benefit from natural gas. So it's not taking quality service, it's privatizing. Again, so is SEDASH. There are examples here, but the number of missing fugitives is increasing, but as the number goes up, you get on the back of a citizen. So privatisation isn't the answer. So the privatisation you've been doing over the years means borrowing the country, looting the country into the private sector, making living citizens, people into slaves. I'm asking you here: the wages for a very famous car factory that employs 5,600 workers are $1,000. Again, I ask you, is this true? At the centre of Kopeeli, all AKP MPs will line up at the centre of Izmit. The money from the Korean company, which they are trying to build, will be $774, minimum wage, and will employ 150 people. If you build a five-star hotel downtown, you'll figure it out. Minister, I have a suggestion to you that you will have these done in the center of the city: if you make a highway that will facilitate transportation to Kartepe, between Sapanca-Kartepe-Köseköy, it will be better than the industrial investments you will make if you make it easier to get to Lake Sapanca. I'm saying we need to make it happen, we need to do it. Again, they had just given examples of Bursa. He is a tax-paying city in this country, which pays taxes, which is Turkey's burden. Well, would you say there's a light rail system in the Bigeli, Mr. Secretary? You have transferred the subways that your incompetent mayors in Istanbul failed to complete to Ankara. Why don't you think about the light rail system for him who pays so much and pays so much taxes? Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0126par0381	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the statement of the fifth (part) of the fifth (part) of the Article (1) of the Interim 4 (participation on the Freedom of the Turkish Railway Transport of 441 rows, to the fifth (part of the fifth), and to the fifth (part of the text) in its joke (part of the text). D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0127par0391	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0126par0392	I'm reading the reason: It has been proposed in accordance with its restructuring targets, that the five-year deadlines will be insufficient. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 4, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions above the temporary clause 5, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In a month's time, we propose that the declaration of the provision of the Article (1) of the Interim Fifth Amendment on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport of 441 rows be changed to.......................... the transfers from the text of matter at the end of the (1)th joke. Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Temporal Article 5 ▪ [[1]] ... 40 percent for people who don't have a pension, Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the text of the Interim Article 5 Τ Bill of Law. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Ali Serindağ Turgay Develi Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0128par0418	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have taken a pledge on the 5th interim clause of Article 10 of Bill 441. I salute you all. We're discussing a legal arrangement that will determine the fate and future of our railroads with a proud history of one hundred and fifty-six years. Transport is the engine power of economics, production and country development. So we know that any changes to the mission and vision of 1506 years of history, experience and savings, cultural infrastructure, are actually privatisation. This arrangement envisions the removal of the state monopoly on the railways, according to the neoliberal policies envisioned by global capital. It is clear how TCDD is under siege today when the port management of the TCDD (TCDD) within the service integrity of TCDD (TCDD) is considered to have a 4.5 per cent load transport rate at the end of 2012, when the privatisation process began with the privatisation process of suburban services. With this arrangement, the TCDD will fall into the hands of multinational corporations and will be punished both for high-priced transportation and for our national economy as well as for the use of railway services. In a way that we have not encountered in the world, the private sector is envisioned to play a role in infrastructure and train management. Britain is trying to reintegrate the infrastructure into a state monopoly to remove the same practice it started years ago. The privatisation of multinational, strategic, long-standing state enterprises such as the Railways and PTT after 140 CITs stems from the desire for capital to create a cheap labour force in public and to create a monopoly by the private sector. These practices are the plan to re-enact slavery by dividing employees into classrooms. With this bill, incentives for the pension of specialized personnel are to purge a significant portion of experienced and specialized iron passengers. The words in the bill make and operate are the expressions that reveal hidden intentions. It aims to ensure that subcontractorization is still more common. The fact that different businesses operate on the infrastructure of TCDD, which is 80 per cent of the single line, means that train boilers increase with unwanted unpleasantness, and railway security is at risk. The government, which quickly strays from the understanding of the social state, seems to have coveted the small sums taken by public employees. A low-paying and unsecured labour force is sought. However, TCDD, which once served with about 80,000 workers and civil servants, has a 22% rate of income costs, while today's total results with 32,000 employees are able to cover 26 percent of the revenue costs. This result is not from employees, it is not their sin. This bill changes the state-owned status of the TCDD. It predicts configuration based on commercial conditions. After transforming economics into state property. The former employees of CIC institutions, the TCDD employee, will remain in the form of flexible work from now on. It's not just us, but the plans that risk our country's future. Mr. Minister, on March 24th, you had a meeting in the garden of Ataturk Stadium, with 40 people from the 113 head of Konak district at the Bordeaux Green Restaurant. You've listened to the mayor's problems and troubles. And after listening, you said: "I am ashamed to talk about these problems and to become a member of such a city. " You don't need to hear anything, Mr. Secretary. You're not from Izmir, you're from outside and you're a fake Izmirite. And you don't have to feel bad about being an Izmirian. Now, if we bring you to Izmir, put you in front of the AKP province, put you in front of the Governorate, give you the keys to the Republic Quarter, go to Manavkuyu, go to Naldöken, go to the Republic neighbourhood, go to the Architect Sinan neighbourhood, go to the Heros, you won't find it.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0129par0428	It's lost, it's lost.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0130par0429	He can't go to the post office and write letters.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0128par0430	You can get in a cab and go from here to Nation, but you don't know the streets of İzmir. You don't have to have any problem being an Izmirian or an MP of İzmir. I just want to say that I don't think it's appropriate for you, and the railroad worker, against this privatisation, said on foot: ▪ Play, play, play, play, play, play, AKP, steal your law. Play, play, play The AKP has walked the streets and said these slogans. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He says it's my duty to tell you from here, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0131par0438	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Speaker made some assessments of myself during his speech. In fact, I would like to share with the General Assembly that the person who called me "Don't Hit Me" is not really from Izmirli. He's from Erzincan.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0132par0444	I'm from Izmir, born and raised. He keeps telling me he's Erzincan, but let's be Erzincan... I'll get it out, ID's in my pocket. So you don't accept Erzincanism now, Congressman? If so, say so. Now, none of us are living in the provinces where we are, and we may not have been born there, but we are MPs of that province, and it is our primary duty to deal with the problems of that province, our responsibility to the voters. I'm an Izmir MP, I'll go to Naldöken, I'll go to Manavkuyu, I'll go to Naldöken, but I'll tell you that on my way to the MP Naldöken.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0133par0450	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0132par0451	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0133par0452	Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0132par0453	He teased me that I wasn't from Izmir.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0133par0454	Please do not engage in bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0132par0457	81 is our province, all of us, but Mr. Minister is hearing satire, and he has a problem with being an Izmirite, and he says to me, "Our birth certificate is from Izmir, growing up, Izmir, but my origin is from Erzincan, my father Erzincan, and my mother from a village in Kelkit district of Silverhane. So I'm from Izmir, my mother's side is from Silver Hall Kelkitli, my father is from Erzincan, and I'm proud of them, but I'm a born and raised Izmirian, but I'm an Izmir MP. Mr. Minister, he's having a hard time being an Izmirian, and he says he's got no qualms about being an Izmir MP. You don't have to have any problem being an Izmir MP, Mr. Secretary. Izmir has made you deputy minister and minister. And therefore, you must be extremely happy and very happy. I'll go to every village in the 30 districts of İzmir, but believe me, we'll leave you in Konak Square, we'll give you the car, we'll get you a cab here, we'll get you a cab, we'll get you in the Capitol cab, we'll leave you in the Konak Square, we'll let you know that you won't find the streets, you won't find the neighborhoods, you won't find the streets, you won't find them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0133par0460	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. President... Here you go. I'm not going to continue this pointless discussion, but I want to correct one wrong. When I said that I had no right to be an MP, I wanted to express how much Izmir had been neglected in the municipalities for years and how much problems had been increasing.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0134par0466	You didn't sign the exploratory increase in eight months, the exploratory increase. Eight months, eight months. I wanted to share it with the Izmirians. I didn't mean anything by it. Thank you for the opportunity to explain this on this occasion.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0135par0470	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In a month's time, we propose that the declaration of the Article (1) of the Interim 5th Amendment on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport of 441 rows be changed to................... and to be removed from the text of matter at the end of the second joke, and to add and propose to the end of the text of the text of the text. Temporal Article 5 ▪ [[1]] ... 40 per cent for those who don't have an age-appropriate pension. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0136par0488	Motive.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0135par0489	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to prevent the victims of the three-month pension petition, with the idea that the education of their children will take a summer vacation in June. Our proposal for a change in pension incentives and the correction of injustice and incentives between employees whose retirement times are very close together is the 10th of the Constitution. It is intended to be in accordance with the principle of equality in the Article. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit to your votes the interim item 5: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, lawmakers, there is a motion for a new interim clause violation. I'll get the motion read, I'll ask the Commission. If the Commission participates in the motion with only 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission doesn't participate mostly, I'll remove it from the process. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the introduction of the following Interim 6th article to the Bill on the liberalisation of the 441-Selected Turkish Railway Transport. The Interim Article 6 (Turkish Republic of Turkey) is appointed to positions under State Railways of 4857, which are in the same title and in different positions under the same mandate, and are employed at different status, in accordance with Article 399, in accordance with the provisions of Act II. The appointment procedure and its bases are adopted by the Finance Ministry and determined by the TCDD Board of Directors. Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? I invite members of the Commission to this order... Mr. President, we don't have a majority, we can't participate. Since the commission has not been able to make it to the motion for the most part, I'm dismissing the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following clause to the 441-Plot Bill. (TCDD, TCDD, and TCDD Transport, Inc.) It cannot be transferred, it cannot be forced to retire, it cannot be employed in another institution, it cannot be changed, it can't be prevented from increasing its status, it can't be put into office. The salary and salary he's paid for his work can't be frozen in any way. Union representative is also part of the boards for such changes. (2) TCDD and TCDD Transport Inc. The services of the current organisation and the current staff cannot be performed by subcontractors or service. Aysel Tuğlük Sabat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Fair Kurt Idris Bauken Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion mostly? We don't have a single majority, Mr. President, we can't participate. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There's a motion on Article 11, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 1 of Article 11 of Article 1 of Turkish Railway Transport, we propose and propose that the statement of this Law be replaced by the statement published in this Official Journal of the Law. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haydar Akar Turgay Develi Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Serindağ Aytüğ Atı Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0137par0533	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 11 of the Legislature on the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport 441 rows. Through privatisation, I salute all lawmakers who do not pursue the values of the country and again oppose the exploitation of the sweats of the land. Dear friends, this motion, what does it say? It says: ▪ In the history of publishing this law, I ask you: How many years has the AKP mentality been in power? Eleven years. Now, what are you going to do if this law goes into effect in its publication? It won't matter. As long as this mentality is in power, our country's values will be sold one by one. We're dealing with an AKP classic, my dear friends. What's the AKP classic? The AKP classic is that we take our values and scavenge them and create customers and then sell them through privatisation. Does the AKP know about this? He knows very well. He's very good at it, he's very good at it. Does he have experience with that? A lot, not counting. If you remember the privatisation of the hospital-related, public-private partnership privatisation that you approved by raising your hands at the nearest date, copy it, paste it, and I guarantee that the same law will apply. What were you saying there? Some people will build hospitals, and we will be tenants. You said, "We will serve our patients with great money. " And here you will again, after a while, come across the railroads, from here to here, by someone else, and in return, with the money from the ready customer. Look, the AKP classic also changes shape from time to time. So the AKP classic not only buys and sells state property, but also builds private chains -- which you can include a private chain of hospitals -- scalds them up, machetes them through the state, makes customers through the state, and then allows them to go on the market. The closest example of this can be found in a chain of private hospitals sold these days. My dear friends, in the railways, our people have sweat. When you come to the bench tomorrow and give the railways to the foreign company for forty or nine years or so, of course your hands will be down again. Mr. Secretary, I'm curious: why can't you run these railroads? You were a powerful government. You said you were the 16th great economy! You were challenging the Middle East, the world, the United States! I mean, I wonder if you're really too weak to run a railroad. Don't you think you're good at this? If you can't do it, get out of there, and you'll get replaced, and you'll get fucked pretty good. Your intentions are different. Look, our Ministry of Transport is capable of taking over the sinking subways immediately. The Istanbul subway sinks, the Transport Ministry takes over; the Ankara subway sinks, the Transport Ministry takes over, but buys and sells projects that we started the fast train, which is supposed to be profitable. If you say you can't sell it, you'll eliminate it, my dear friends. Mr. Secretary, do you remember when you were sitting here on this bench and I told you three names from where I was sitting, where you were really yelling and yelling and your voice was turned down? Palu, Young, Mush. What do these three compounds remind you of, Mr. Secretary? I said, "Palu-Young-Muh-Muh-Muh-Rahway corruption." You shouted until your voice was muted. I've been a man of my word, I've sent you a motion to ask. Instead of picking on you from where I'm sitting here, I sent you a question proposal, and I said, "I'm just reading one: why did you post it on the government when the Palu-Young-Mousian railway must be replaced by the company that's going to do the HES?," I said, "Why didn't you answer?" I'm going to ask you to pay for this, Mr. Secretary. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0138par0543	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 11 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 11 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 12, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Council of Ministers shall carry out the provisions of the 12th article of Turkish Railway Transport. We shall submit and propose that these provisions be changed by the Council of Ministers. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haydar Akar Turgay Develi Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Eyeborn, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0139par0559	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs had a project by Mr. Prime Minister, one of the crazy projects is the canal project in Istanbul's European Peninsula. Of course, in some ways, it concerns the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, but in some ways, it concerns the Ministry of Transport. So, on the basis of the Railway Law, when our Minister of Transport is here, while the MPs are here, I'm going to read some of my questions from this question motion, which we have not been able to submit to an earlier question on this channel project. We asked questions about this crazy project, or, in the correct term, the mad project, which has a multi-dimensional dimension that concerns marine science, environmental science, earth science, and urban planning. According to what scientific decisions and criteria were the canal's choice of location? Have the views of our universities, our vocational rooms and NGOs been taken for this project, particularly Istanbul, that will have significant economic and environmental impacts in the region? The canal is reported to be 25 meters deep and 150 meters wide. Is there a CED report or preliminary report on the project? What kind of hydrologic and environmental imbalances will occur because of the difference in altitude and saltiness awareness as a result of the average thousand-in-a-day meeting of 17.9-salt water from the Black Sea and the water from the Sea of Marmara (Marma) at 24.9 per thousand salts? Has this project been investigated as to how it will affect fish breeding grounds in the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara, and thus the fishing sector? Is it calculated that the sea water that will leak from the surfaces on both sides of the canal will have the impact of fresh water aquifers in water basins that feed dams and lakes in the region and are vital for agriculture, forest and Istanbul drinking water? Has there been any research on the properties of this channel that have affected the environmental and hydrologic balances of the Istanbul Strait, the Marmara Sea, the Black Sea and the Çanakkale Strait for hundreds of thousands of years? This project is of international importance to the economy, transport and environmental impacts. Have talks been held with the governments of Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, Russia and Georgia in order to influence the coasts of the Black Sea and the Aegean? If so, what are his views? When the project takes place, what is the number of buildings and populations that will be located on both sides of the channel? Where will the contaminated waste of water be discharged, and where will millions of people be evacuated, and in this area planned to settle? Is the environmental impact and cost of this waste project defined? Does this project have anything to do with the new 38,400 hectares of settlement project -- including the third airport -- between Lake Küçükçekmece on the European side of İstanbul and Lake Yakos on the coast of the Black Sea? Mr. Secretary, of course, some of these questions concerning the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism have not been answered from there. You may be interested in some of these questions, as your position, as the Minister of Transport, and we may be able to get some of those answers from you here. This project will indeed significantly affect the sea in northern and southern Istanbul, the ecology of Istanbul -- multi-directional -- and the hydrology of the seas and the properties of living beings. In our universities, our experts, our teachers, are very concerned about this. We didn't hear you get their opinion. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0140par0572	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Before we take a vote, I'll make a promise against you in favor of stating the color of the game. Lehte, Aldeli MP Ilyas Candy. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0141par0580	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a pledge in favour of the Bill of the Law on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport 441 rows. First of all, I want to thank our CHP MP Haydar Akar Bey very much before we go into law, because he's given us the opportunity to explain some things, and he's shared some information about the privatisation of the EZGAZ, and I'll share that information with you, my friends. We really don't deal much with the past as the EC PARTY government, as well as the city and the government; we're dealing with what will be done about the future, what projects will be done, what projects will be done. With questions like that about the past, we have to pass on past mistakes. Friends, in 2004, we took over as the City of Bigeeli. WHEN we took over, the number of subscribers was 80 thousand. By the time we moved on to privatisation, the number of subscribers increased to 215 thousand; there is a 170 percent increase. Again, when we took over, the steel pipeline was 600 kilometers, and when we privatized it, we increased to 3,000 kilometers; 400 percent increased. The number of subscriptions has increased to 70 thousand, 190000; 171 per cent has been increased.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0142par0585	Two subscriptions...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0141par0586	The amount of gas consumed was 50 million cubic metres, and when we went into privatisation, we went up to 1,800 million cubic metres, and the rate of increase was 36 percent. Of course, there were applications for privatisation during the CHP period, which was privatised on 20/06/2002, and there was an offer coming in, saying he would pay in ten years, and the number he proposed was 135 million dollars. At the time, the debt owed $180 million, plus the debt owed by BOTASH. I mean, if he had privatized it for $135 million, he'd have put money on it to pay off his other debt to the city. What happened after those studies were done? In addition, they didn't privatize, they canceled, they re-privatized on 15/3/2003 because the number was low. And on this date, unfortunately, no one has bid on it. As Metropolitan City City, we've gone to privatisation after doing these services as the AK PARTY government, my friends. We've privatized 90%. Earlier, 100 per cent had been privatized. Do you guys know how much we privatized 90 percent? We privatized it for 549 million dollars, and the EZGAZ had $317 million in debt from the old administration that had been saved up so far, and, as we paid the debt, 232 million went into the city's vault.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0143par0589	How much natural gas does the capital consume from the gas?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0141par0590	So what I'm saying from here is that when the CHP was privatized, $180 million was offered, he couldn't even pay the debts, he had to put another 100 million on it, and in our period, that was exactly $317 million that went into the safe. Of course, friends, after I've made that clear, I'd especially like to share a few issues with you about this iron. Unfortunately, since there has been no investment in the railway for years, the industry has been especially stockpiled in the Marmara region. 70 percent of the entire industry is in the Marmara region, and the majority of the population is in the Marmara region. And the reason for that, of course, is that the land road is a serious cost for the shipment of the goods produced, to use the sea to reduce its cost. When it was not strengthened by the railways, the whole industry was gathered in the Marmara region. You know, the Marmara District was a first-degree earthquake zone, a very risky area, and unfortunately, there was a misdeeds in the past, so it was taking an intense migration. With the strengthening of these railways, with the strengthening of both the private sector and the state, the industry will now shift towards Anatolia, and the migration to the west in the region will fall on this occasion. The developmental imbalance between the regions will also be eliminated. For that, I truly thank all our friends, especially our Minister, who have been involved in this law. I also thank and pay my respects to all of you esteemed congressman friends who have accepted this law.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0144par0596	Thank you, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0145par0597	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0144par0598	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0145par0599	Mr. Orator said the numbers I told you weren't correct, they were correct. His numbers are wrong, so I'd like to make a statement to correct them, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0144par0600	Here, fix it, please.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0146par0602	Fix what?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0145par0605	Mr. President, I'd like to thank my fellow speaker. In fact, it's all true, I didn't say anything about it.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0146par0607	Fix what?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0145par0608	All of the numbers are true, but there's one thing he's missing; yes, he tried to privatize during the CHP, but it wasn't privatized, which is true. We didn't commit a crime, we didn't make a mistake, so we didn't attract public property about privatisation. It's something else I said.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0146par0609	I didn't even get the offer, the offer!
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0145par0610	The capital gas was sold for $1 billion, 162 million. The Prime Minister said that he had seen $1.5 billion earlier, but when his friend came out of the imam, he signed under it. But you said something was missing here: you didn't say that the EZGAZ (IZGAZ) consumes 200 million cubic metres more natural gas per year than the capital gas. If you had said that... you didn't say that EZGAZ is three times bigger than D.C. Natural Gas, four times bigger than D.C., one fifth as a subscriber, but there's more as a subscription, there's $4 billion, $3 billion as a financial value in industrial territory, and you didn't say that it's more expensive than D.C. Natural Gas. That's what you're gonna say. Again, by building a fast train, my dear brother, there is no industry in Anatolia. If the industry had gone and gone on a roller coaster, it would have taken a train to organized industrial areas in your town. There aren't any trains going to any of the 13 organized industrial areas in your town, and there's no way he's going. We never even talked about the State Railways, logistics villages, as it did not go, but he builds them in the center of Köseköy, the center of the city. Today, two thousand trucks enter the city. After that logistical center, 10,000 trucks will enter the Bigeli today, and it will become an area where only trucks and containers will compete. If you really want quality life in that city, if you want that earthquake-torn city to rise up, make it look good, you have to say no to industry, not to the Big One today. And you have to work to make it a city where you can live as a human being. That's what I say, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0147par0614	Thank you, Mr. Akar. [[Continue]] To state the color of the game, counter, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0148par0623	Thank you. First of all, I give my condolences to Mr. Ilyas Kılıç, who has died last week, who has been our MP for many years, and to his grandson, Çazatay Kılıç. Dear friends, we are against this law from beginning to end. Our friends on the committee, our expert friends, have expressed their opinion. We're against this law, on its name, from beginning to end. Now, Mr. Secretary, while I'm here, I'd like to bring Malatya, a project that I consider very important about Malatya, even many of our cities, to the attention of the Minister, if they listen to me. Yes, Mr. Secretary is busy at the moment, but...
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0149par0627	Please continue to address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0148par0628	Okay. Minister, now, we have a road connecting Malatya, even Kemaliye -- perhaps you'll be interested -- Ilic, Keban, Arabgir, Arguvan, Alacahan, Kangal, Hekimhan, Kuluncak, Yazhan districts to the airport. Now, if a bridge is built on that tea, these counties will approach the airport at about 40 kilometers [40 km], meaning Sivas, Erzincan, Elazığ, Malatya, and Malatya. 40 kilometers of road is a relief of Malatian traffic, and people approaching the airport at 40 kilometers. Now, there are various facilities in Hekimhan, there are various investments in many of our districts, and almost all of these districts are located in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir. If this road is built, if this bridge is built, Mr. Minister, both Kamaliye and Ilic and these counties -- 5 provinces -- will be 40km away from the airport. What's a 40-mile approach? The development of Kemaliye, Ilic, Arabgir, Hekimhan, and Arguvan, means that the people in Istanbul can come to Malatya. I'd like to bring this to your attention, and if it can be done, it will be a very important service to the region. The bridge to be built is a low-cost bridge between the Malatya Ferret village and the Tomos.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0150par0633	How many meters?
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0148par0634	So it's probably a bridge about 20 to 30 meters. This bridge will bring Malatya (Maliatya) within 40 kilometers of the airport, including these counties -- Mr. Minister's province. 40 kilometers is the development of the provinces in Malatya, the development of Kemaliye, Ilic, and Arabgir. We're asking you, if you could look into this, we'd be grateful for Malatya. Now, dear lawmakers, I talk a lot about Malatya, because the Malatians who voted voted voted voted for me to express the injustices done to Malatya, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Unfortunately, Malatya didn't get the service she deserved in terms of the roads. Malatya is the only county without a freeway, with no freeways, according to the counties around us. Look, Malatya is a world brand in every sense. Apricotically... first, I draw your attention, we have a liver center that performs the first liver transplant. The world's most famous nut, grapes, cherries... did Malatya get everything famous but Malatya get the service she deserves? He didn't get it. We don't have a freeway, we have a freeway. There is no freeway, and Malatiah has no freeway. Passing through Malatya is a mess.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0151par0638	We've got it, we're going with the money.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0148par0639	Yes, I'm afraid so. Again, look, there was not a single metre invested in the Sivas-Malatia road connecting all of Diyarbakir, east to the Black Sea. The double route to the hand side, I think it's because I think the Elazigs made it, because we'd have a double road between Malatya and Sivas, not two feet of double road. This is the path that connects the whole of Malatya, the east, to the Black Sea, but unfortunately it continues to travel as a one - lane road. Again, dear friends, there is a road that connects Malatya to Kuluncak district, which is no different than the village road, the way to Kuluncak is no different from the village road. Unfortunately, the AKP, which has been in power since 2002, has not hit this road but has not. Dear friends, Malatya is one of the most, unfortunately, voting provinces in the AKP. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There are double roads everywhere, and a double stake is staked on Malatiah. Is that possible? Is that possible? But unfortunately, one person with a conscience doesn't come forward and say it's unfair.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0152par0645	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0148par0646	I'd like to get the Minister's attention again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit03spe0152par0649	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the bill on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport is an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 238 [[x]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The bill has been adopted and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-04-24sit04spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Companies' Co-operation Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers, which is in the 4th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission can no longer be found, it is Thursday (April 25th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
