tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from İstanbul MP Metin Ashünk, who asked for the declaration of the First Organization of January 20, 1921. Here you go, Mr. Ash.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with my sincerest feelings. On January 20, 1921, I have taken an off-the-book agreement on the Act on the Foundation. I salute your high council. The human being, a social being, has been fighting for rights and freedoms since its existence. This has made it necessary to protect and guarantee human rights. Thus, in each period of history, the concepts of human rights and freedom have become a field of struggle. The state's legitimacy is hidden in the moralization of fertri freedoms and the protection of hermitri rights. The Hilful Fudul, the Treaty of Medina, established in the land of pre-Islamic Arabia, declared in 622 by Our Lord Veda Hutbesi again in 632, the Ten Commandments we saw in the Bible, the Magna Carta in the Middle Ages, the Declaration of Independence in 1776, the 1789 French Emancipation, the basic rights and freedoms of man on every platform. In our recent history, Turkey has had an adventurous constitutional journey. The Yeard Alliance, the Order of Tanzimat, is a pre-Republic Constitutional Experience of 1876. Our Veterans Assembly, created in World War I and later, created a constitution of its own. The Constitution of 1921 is a 24-point constitution in an extraordinary state in which Istanbul is occupied and the Assembly is disbanded. Legislative, executive, and judicial authority are based on the principle of unity of forces. With the change in 1923, the state's way of ruling was added by a decree that the republic and its religion were Islam. The 1924 Constitution is the first constitution in the history of the republic and has remained in effect until 1960. The Constitution, which was abolished by the May 27 military coup, did not mention social and economic rights between rights and freedoms, but was briefly referred to as property rights, rights to work and the right to trade. The 61 Constitution has lifted 24 Constitutions after 60 military coups. The 82 Constitution was carried out after 80 military coups. Both constitutions are the product of coups and are imposed upon the nation. Unfortunately, all the constitutions say so, but their souls are far from the understanding of modern human rights, democracy, law and freedom. The stitches of this regime that forced our nation to wear a dress that was not based on democratic teams and a liberal point of view, came and went, one by one, and the disassembles of this dress began to fail. Unfortunately, more than half of our 150-year-old constitutional tradition is the story of the protection and consolidation of the majority of the few. Under the principle of separation of forces, a bureaucratic system based on the preferential authority of the appointed one is imposed on our nation's people. Although this nation has defeated this system every time it's gone to the polls, it's been able to continue to dominate this bureaucratic system until 2002, with direct or indirect interference that the chosen ones have failed to fulfill their right to be elected. As the world awakens from the cold war and evolves in another direction, we have been asked to be assigned to the country and to our nation with military coup plans and customs. The ruling party has been asked to be shut down with false news clippings. Now, this nation's attitude that it must have a civil constitution in accordance with universal norms reminds it once again of the responsibility the High Assembly has placed on its shoulders. The fact that the Constitutional Compromise Commission has continued its efforts to build a new constitution in this climate raises serious morale in society. Thus, I rephrase my belief that this Parliament will carry out the responsibility of a new constitution, which says, "Instead of the Constitution of 1982, which is our nation's demand for immediate action," and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement is from Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgelü, who asked about the attack attempt and the incident on the Bulgarian Movement for Rights and Freedoms on January 19th. Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, we were in Bulgaria at the weekend with our Vice President Faik Öztrak, our MPs Recep Gürkan and Mehmet Kesimoğlu, to follow the 8th General Assembly of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The assassination attempt on the party's President Ahmet Doğan has taken place in front of our eyes. The attacker approached Ahmet Doğan, who had spoken on the stand with his gun, and he pulled the trigger twice, but the gun did not fire. Meanwhile, during Ahmet Doğan's intervention with the assassin, the guards intervened and neutralized the attacker. The shooter also had a knife on him. It was a clear sign that even the purpose of killing was to kill. We, the Republican People's Party, condemn and condemn this attack, remind you once again that terror will never succeed. Dear lawmakers, Dr. Ahmet Doğan is a family member who was once at Belene Camp in Bulgaria. A leader who founded the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and served as President for 23 years by the end of the week. Today, his party, Bulgaria's third largest party, has 38 MPs, and many mayors. This attack on Ahmet Doğan -- to be precise -- was carried out by the majority of Turkish descendants to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and, of course, to the democracy in Bulgaria. The people behind the attack and the assassination attempt must be made clear. This is a duty of the government of the Republic of Turkey, which must be coerced and lobbyed on both the identity and mission of Bulgaria, a member of the European Union, as well as the identity and mission of Ahmet Doğan. It's a duty, as well as a debt to our kin. Dear MPs, the incident in the convention of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has clouded Mr. Ahmet Doğan's speech. However, in his speech, there were very important and memorizing findings. He made it very clear and clear how Turkey's foreign policy was being used against our relatives who live abroad, and how the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister, whose feet were not on the ground today, were in negotiations. I remind you again: the leader of the Turkish party in Bulgaria, who represents the Turks today in Bulgaria. He talks about rights and freedom violations in Bulgaria. He says that the Bulgarian Prime Minister has created a virtual Turkish threat in the country, that this is related to the Rights and Freedoms Movement, which is the product of Ottoman cultural heritage in the Balkans, that he has put democracy on the shelf and created Turkish hostility, and he says, "Look, I'm reading from Ahmet Doğan's speech brochure: he doesn't feel safe again despite all that he's done." He wants to make a second insurance policy, and therefore he wants to address his Turkish counterpart in Ankara to help him with everything he can, and unfortunately, his Turkish counterpart in Ankara has responded to him. Dear MPs, I don't have to tell you about the Bulgarian Prime Minister's Turkish counterpart, his colleague in Turkey, everyone understands very well, very clearly. The leader of the Turks in Bulgaria is clearly accusing the Turkish Republic of its foreign policy and Recep Tayyip Erdogan of negotiating with Bulgaria against Turkish relatives. Another important event is that there is not a single AKP official or representative in that convention hall. Dear lawmakers, especially members of the AKP Group, all things are clear and clear. I can show this speech to anyone who wants it. I'd like to remind you that you have debts against history and our kin. In fact, you owe them more than Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who made you a deputy. To remain silent, to ignore -- frankly, to be a partner in crime and sin. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0005par0031	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kashat MP Reshat True, who wants to talk about the problems and expectations of the Ahiska Turks. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0006par0036	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the issues and measures and expectations that should be taken by the Turkish Ajussies. I salute the High Council. It is a mountain region in the southwestern part of Georgia, near our province of Ardahan. The Turks who live here are called the Good Turks. After the 1826 Ottoman-Russian wars, the Turks dominated the Russians. This is the beginning of the endless ordeal of the humble Turk. The Russians have established more than 100,000 other groups in this region under the policy of assimilation. However, with the Second World War, the cruel Stalin forced thousands of Ahıska Turks into battle zones. On 13 November 1944, all Ahiska Turks were forced on trains and distributed in various parts of Soviet Russia. After a month and a half of this difficult journey, more than 30,000 people died from cold, disease, 17 thousand children. These people were never used to the harsh conditions of Central Asia. They're struggling to live under very difficult conditions, and they're burning with homesickness. Even after Stalin's death, martial law was lifted in the Ahiska region, but they were not allowed to return. And the property which was taken from them shall not be returned to them. Also, the Armenians settled on their land. Despite any negative circumstances, however, the Ahiska Turks have not forgotten their Turkishness and wish to return to their lands. In March 1999, Georgia agreed to the Council of Europe to guarantee the return of Ahiska Turks to their homeland. This was a very important development, but unfortunately the decision regarding the return of Ahiska Türk has not been implemented. The Armenians have put all kinds of pressure on Georgia to make sure there's no turning back, and these people can't return to their homeland. Human rights violations of the common Turks continue all over the world. There are still some of these people who live in many parts of Russia who are still unidentified. In 2004, the migration to America was carved into the minds as a secondary trauma. In fact, imagine that if one Armenian nose bleeds, the world rises up, but as a result, the Turks are persecuted in all sorts of ways, so all human values are forgotten when it comes to Turks. Should we do the same as Turkish people? Turkey has received more than 40,000 Ahiska Turks through various migration routes. These people have residence permits, work permits, and citizenship problems, and many of them can't even retire, they want their pension. An important problem is also related to the degree equivalency. These people are our brothers. They must be helped. Let's support those who want to go to the woodland, give double citizenship, buy a house there, give land to these people, make life easier for them. A similar support for the Crimean Turks must be done to these people. However, none of this, unfortunately, was done in the AKP's power. Even though we've brought it up a number of times, no results have been made. But if those improvements to the Crimean Turks had been made, I'm guessing that people would have settled there as a result of the decision the Council of Europe has now made. But none of this has ever been done. But one thing must be forgotten is that the Turkish people will never, ever forget what was done to them. Congressmans, the Turks of Ahiska are the patient stars of our honor and historical memories. It takes a lot of courage to understand them, to put extra actors in cry mode, and fake tears don't mean we're solving it. Don't worry and don't worry. These people are a people who have brought down seven heifers. You don't think everyone's in charge, your value is self-worth, and unfortunately, people can't do anything because the owner of a horse thinks they're coy. Those who fall off horses will never know the sadness of the steppes. The Turks have a saying that patience is good for protection. Congressmans, how many more tears will these innocent people shed? Let's put these sad, strange people out of their misery. Let's shout out and protest every injustice, error, treason that's ever been done to our people. Let us not forget that Ahiska and Hoxhalı are the common problems of the Turkish world. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0007par0046	Thank you. In the name of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc will respond to non-responsibility talks. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0008par0050	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I'd like to thank Mr. Metin Ashunk, Mr. Emre Bridgel and Mr. Reşat Right. Mr. Ashunk, they've made an assessment of the Constitution since the past, but what I really want to answer is the speech of Mr. Emre Bridgel and Mr. Reshat Right. I'd like to express my thoughts in a few words. First of all, I would like to express my regrets for this wicked, ugly assassination that has been directed at Mr. Ahmet Doğan on the General Assembly of the Party for Rights and Freedoms in Bulgaria. When we saw it on the television screens, we were very upset, but by the will of God, Mr. Ahmet Doğan was saved from this incident, and this person was caught. It is likely that the Bulgarian authorities in regard to him will initiate a judicial process. And we'll know why and how he wants to do it, what he intends to do. The perp's in the middle. He came running from all over the crowd -- and I think there was no protection on the stage -- and he put the gun directly to Mr. Ahmet Doğan's head. We should be thankful to God that such a terrible event could have been avoided without reaching its goal. So, Mr. Ahmet Dogan, I wish our friend a great deal of well-being, God forbid he should hide it from the worst. And Mr. Emre Bridgel, representing his party -- perhaps at the private representation point -- stated that he attended this congress. As far as I can tell, our congressman friends from the National Movement Party and the Republican People's Party have attended this congress. That's very true, very right. And I want to thank our friends for their participation. Of course, during the evaluation, they made a few statements on the bet without speaking. Mr. Ahmet Doğan made his speech in Bulgarian with news from the Ambassador that I was able to see on the screens. So, I don't speak this language, and I don't know what you're saying. Mr. Emre Bridgel, they said he had a speech in his hand. I don't know if that's Turkish.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0009par0057	Turkish.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0008par0058	If it's Turkish, I'll ask him. However, knowing that this conversation will be held today, I've asked the ambassador to send me this speech text, of course I'll consider it. Your observations are important to us, so denying otherwise is not the point, but the fact that he did the healing speech in Bulgarian made it impossible to hear them from his own mouth. I'd like to say that without mentioning a name, he seems to be making a criticism. I believe the presence of a relationship between the Prime Minister of Bulgaria and the Prime Minister of Turkey and that coldness between him and Mr. Ahmet Doğan and his party is reflected in Turkey's criticism as well. I think it should be, too. Because we're going to that land, we're following the political movement there. We are pleased with the political activity and success of our family members. I know that since the Rights and Freedoms Party has been operating as a party of Bulgaria for the past 20 years and has claimed to represent all Bulgaria because it does not only exist in its administration and it does not belong to the Turks, and because it has succeeded in representing all Bulgaria, it has made many deputies and has won many municipalities, and has become coalition partners in three or four governments that I know of. I mean, having over 30 deputies, winning major city municipalities, winning major municipalities, I think that's a big success. We are the ones who met with these friends and the Kassim Dals at that time, and we met together when we went there, until this day, Lütfi Mestan, who was elected president, in Manisa, and in the past, in the manisa, where I was a politician. However, let us know that there are several parties in Bulgaria who claim to represent the Turks, there are more than one party in Macedonia, there are more than one party in Kosovo, there are more than one party in West Thrace, and that should be met naturally. Therefore, it is wise to accept it as the nature of politics that the President of the Rights and Freedoms has criticised our Prime Minister in Turkey or his party without mentioning the name. Every once in a while, resentment, insecurity, once in a while, it's a duty to fix it. But I think this incident is more important than any of this. Fortunately, Mr. Dogan was able to survive this terrible event. I'm sure the Bulgarian authorities will take this matter very seriously and will ask the people who are setting this up against our friend. We will follow this as Turkey, and as Turkey, we will wish for the outcome to be found out. In fact, before the election, Mr. Ahmet Doğan stated that he would not run for president. He kept that promise, and his friend Lütfi demanded and accepted the election of Mestan. I wish it would be useful for the future, for the future. Because it's our wish that a political party there is strong for that purpose. I also wish to know that we will likely be at equal distance from the work of other political parties in the same goal, and that their unity and integrity will give us more power. Of course, this person is a student or a person with a criminal record. I don't know how his own words were reflected in the transcripts, but I think his first statement of work is inconsistencies. But when we see it on the screens and look at it financially, it comes with the intention of killing it with a small gun pointed at it, pulling the trigger, not answering the trigger, not getting a second chance. What kind of pistol is this, I think, for what purpose was this created, we have nothing to do but wait for the judicial process, but I think Turkey will accept this as a matter of first place and will certainly pursue it. Again, I'd like to thank all our friends for attending this convention, for the opportunity to be with our family members there. Mr. Reshad Hashat has brought up a very important issue, sharing the sufferings and sorrows that have been going on since the past with the Ahýska Turks. So I -- I think it's been about ten days -- I had a big meeting at the Society of the Ahjiskas in Burma when I went to Bursa. About 700 Ahiska Turks attended this meeting. There, too, I went on the stand prepared to discuss certain matters with them, and it didn't take any special effort. The common Turks are oppressed, victims and innocent people. We know their suffering and exiles in Stalin's day, and we embrace them as brothers. Today, the number of people living in Turkey may be few, but we know that there are nearly 500,000 Ahiska Turks living in nine countries around the world. Azerbaijan, in the countries around Kazakhstan, where I went to New York a year ago, we had another meeting with the Association of the Ahıska Turks, where I know that some 15,000 of our fellow Christians live. Dear friends, Turkish abroad and Relative Communitys are the head of an important agency that has been established in recent years. In the past, only one of our state departments was interested in these matters, but our specially assigned friends, they weren't making tables. But in the newly established Turkish and Relative Communitys abroad, thankfully, today every country and every community has a table, we have the necessary expert friends, and we have the opportunity to keep a close eye on everything. For once, nothing has been done. The word was not what I expected from Mr. Right. I'm a very appreciative friend of yours. The brief ministry period was also successful. He has a special interest in these matters. I love our friend. But, in the time of our government, before that, we had governments who embraced and tried to do so much for the Ahýska Turks and tried to do so much for them. But, especially in the last decade, everyone has witnessed that we've been working much better at these things and that we've been following this methodically. And I believe we've received everyone's thanks and appreciation at our meeting with the common Turks. But the issue of citizenship, but the issue of retirement, but the issue of the work permit, the subject of the degree equivalency, is the issues that have just come up or need to be studied. Let's not forget... I've just received a memo, and I'd actually like to give a total speech like, for example, right now, if you'd like, let me give you these numbers for the information of our friend, Mr. Right. The numerical information on the Turks of Ahiska is as follows: The July 2, 1992, and the adoption of Ahiska No. 3835 Turks into Turkey, and the number of people who were granted an immigration visa to Turkey under the Dair Law for the residence of Turkey, and the number of people who were granted Turkish citizenship in 1993: the number of people who were taken into our citizenship in 1993 is 488. The number of people who were taken into our citizenship in 1994 is 178. The number of people who were taken into our citizenship in 1995 was nine hundred and ninety-nine percent in 93, 94, 94, 95. As part of the approval of the Ministry's office of 31/3/2000 and 13 February 2002 -- the three-party coalition government -- which came to our country in various ways without an immigration visa -- should be noted on February 13, 2002, during the period of the AK PARTI administrations, the number of citizens who were taken into Turkish citizenship under the approval of the former government: in 2000, 402 people were taken into 1/3/2 people in 2001, 1/2 citizens in 2002. During the EC PARTY administrations, there were 2,768 in 2003, 4,165 in 2004, 1,855 in 2005, 1,200 in 2006, 835 in 2007, 806 in 2008, and 15,513 in total. Number 3835, I present to Ahiska Turks' acceptance to Turkey and residence the number of Ahiska Turkics, which was added to Article No. 28 February 2009, or Article 1938 four years ago, according to the interim article 1, which was added to Turkish citizenship, 11.540 at one time. When this law came out, all of you, together, were at the point of showing our love for the Turks of Ahiska, but at one time, I think we had all those who had applied during a three-month transition, we had all been given Turkish citizenship, and the number was 11.540. In light of the 675, which was previously taken between 15,513 and 93 and 95, I'd say that nearly 30,000 Ahıska Turks have passed on to Turkish citizenship. In general, the number of people on the list who do not have the conditions needed in the law to apply for Turkish citizenship and who have been assigned to our Ministry to receive Turkish citizenship in an exceptional way by the Association of the Ahıska Turkish Associations. They asked me, and I told them. In a list, 4,393 people are not allowed to receive total Turkish citizenship in an exceptional way. With my fellow ministers, we are able to use the exception of 3 people, 5 people, 6 people, but it is not fitting that the person approaching 5,000 should be granted Turkish citizenship in an exceptional way -- the terms of residence in Turkey, the past, the future -- without being investigated. According to Article 11 of the Law, Turkish citizenship of those who carry the current conditions is also rapidly under way. My dear friends, Mr. Right, told me about Georgia. That's right, one of the conditions he was given during the transfer of Georgia to the Council of Europe was the return of the Turks of Ahiska. Turkey is also closely monitoring this issue. I assure you, whatever minister comes from Georgia -- on what level -- we always bring it up in our bilateral talks when we get there. Unfortunately, the Georgia authorities have made promises and have taken it upon themselves as an obligation, but they're a little loose in their hands about it, not willing. Turkey, on the other hand, offers them other options from housing assistance to encourage it, and is persistently following the issue. When we visited Georgia about four months ago, during our talks with both Saakashvili and the Prime Minister of that time, Glauri Now, after the elections in Georgia, there was a new political power and government. In our talks with them, you can be sure that we will always bring up issues regarding Georgia and the Turks of Ahiska, and we will always be his followers. The retirement issue is closely measured by social security agreements. I've just submitted the subject of citizenship. In matters of work permit, our Security Directorate, our Ministry of Interior, local authorities are always zealous and selfless. The degree equivalence and others are also considered in terms of some national criteria. In short, I'd like to say that I won't take your time in 20 minutes: we're bound by a great deal of kinship and brotherhood to the Abbreviated Turks. We hate the persecutions that have been done to them in the past, and now we wish them to live in peace and quiet in their own land, in our motherland, or in another country. As the government of Turkey, I want you to make sure that we personally intervene in matters outside, but also in matters within ourselves, that we do our best and that we do our best. My respects to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0010par0078	Thank you. 13 members of parliament have a commitment request by entering the system. You know, I don't make promises in my practice. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, as the National Movement Party Group, we, the leader of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Party in Bulgaria, condemn the armed attack, which Mr. Ahmet Doğan has been subjected to, I wish him, his party, and all our kinsmen, to be well-pleased. The Electric Market Law will also be discussed today, although I will be able to convey it to Mr. Secretary, but on this occasion, at the beginning of today's merger... there has been no electricity in the dwellings of the Special Forces of the Gendarme, unfortunately not since 17 days ago, so the radiator doesn't work. I also wish that those who led the television to the Imran villain should take action to remove whatever bureaucratic obstacle there is to solving these security guards who are fighting terrorism in Susova. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0012par0087	Thank you. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0013par0089	Mr. President, I've asked for 60.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0012par0090	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Prime Minister has a thesis, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. The file on the Karma Commission from members of the Constitution and Justice Commission has been returned to the government There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency (TÜİK), in 2011, nearly 11 million people in nearly 25 million working populations are employed without any social security, so 43.4% of employees are off the books. This figure reveals that one of the two people working in our country is off the record. Both OECD countries and EU countries have the highest informality rates. The rate of women who work off the record or have to work is even scarier. 71 per cent of employed women are employed off-the-book. As this figure shows, the most damaged part of off-the-book employment is female employees. There are more devastating consequences and more problems for female workers to be involved in unregistered employment. For these reasons, we propose the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to prevent non-registered employment and determine the issues and measures that should be taken regarding the informal employment of women workers most affected by this situation. [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] 7) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 13) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Gaziantep]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 18) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 19) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] 23) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] Unregistered employment, which has reached alarming levels in our country and feels that it has increased its weight in both the economy and the labour market, is causing problems in the social security system, causing unfair competition and loss of rights and services for employees. Economic, social, structural and bureaucratic reasons are among the reasons for unregistered employment, which are defined as part of the income-profit work of employees or as being left out of the knowledge of all concerned public institutions and institutions. Because of these, the problem becomes multidimensional, the government's income results in the loss of rights to employees. In our country, women are at the top of the negative impacts of the informal economy and unregistered employment. Unregistered women, like all other employees, lack the assurance that social security law will provide them. In the field of employment, it is also seen that women are in a far more disadvantaged position than men, based on statistical results. 71 per cent of employed women are employed off-the-book. Women who work off the record have long hours. Their prices are low. They have no protection against business accidents, depending on their work off the record. Failure to prevent non-responsibility condemns women to work for low wages, unqualified jobs, and poor working conditions. There is a need to implement a long-term program to eliminate the unregistered employment phenomenon. Short-term practices provide periodical improvements, but are not permanent. A comprehensive and versatile understanding must be established. In this scope, first of all, the taxes and bonuses received on employment should be reduced and easy, and further audits on prevention of non-registership should be increased. In the event of working off-the-books work and encouragement, sanctions must be applied. In 2006, the WADIM project was implemented as part of the fight against unregistered employment, but the results were not satisfactory. In addition, another Prime Minister's General Assembly was issued in 2011 to fight off the off-the-book economy. These measures, however, seem to be insufficient and comprehensive, so there are difficulties with results. For reasons stated above, we believe it would be appropriate for a parliamentary investigation to determine the issues and measures related to the unregistered employment of women workers, who are the most affected by unregistered employment and non-registered employment, which have caused the loss of rights for employees. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The lengths of detention observed in important cases involving public opinion raise questions about the politicalisation of the judiciary and the failure of the fair trial process and shake the public's faith in the state of society. Trust in the judicial system and the belief that one's rights will be protected will prevent communities from being driven into chaos. In this context, we would like to submit a parliamentary examination of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Charter 104th and 105th Articles in order to determine whether the lengths of imprisonment have turned into criminal sanctions and whether the fair trial process has been carried out. 10:01.2012 With all due respect. 1) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 2) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] 5) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Niğde]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Gaziantep]] 21) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 23) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 25) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] Despite our longing for Turkey, where democracy and the rule of law prevail; where equal opportunities are offered to all, we have serious problems with the fact that the judiciary is dependent, that the law is biased. The decision of the defendants arrested for three months on the lighthouse case to be released without arrest for "turning the length of their imprisonment into punishment" has not been imposed on the defendants who have been in prison for much longer. It is impossible to understand and digest the double standard of judgment. This double standard shows that the judiciary is dependent and biased, that there is an illegal punishment for long-term incarceration, eventually released defendants. Our MPs, our intellectuals, our journalists, our academics, the freedoms of our police and soldiers have been taken from them without sufficient evidence with vague accusations. Furthermore, the defendants are not allowed to stand trial without arrest, as evidence is collected and the evidence can be judged by the defendants. It is not clear how the defendants were ordered to stand trial before the evidence was collected. In accordance with the competencies of the evidence, it is necessary to determine whether the defendants will be arrested or not, but to eliminate the right of individuals to "fair trial" which is protected by the Constitution and the law, in order to ensure that the defendants be arrested without charges, without being charged, that the evidence in favor of the defendants should not be included in the indictment and that they remain in custody. The continuation or release of the defendants depends on the objective discretion of the judge. It is necessary to explain why the defendants were arrested as well as the material evidence in the case, in a way that consciences will accept. The right of the judge to exercise discretion according to subjective criteria rather than objective criteria is incompatible with the right to a fair trial. Moreover, it is very negative to confirm that the judicial decision-making members have been brought to higher positions, that the judicial members who have ended the arrest are punished with a proper rank, that the judiciary is being politicalized. Although it is against the law to prepare indictments that violate the privacy of private life; the failures that cause the defendants to be arrested for months and months and years; the lack of any transactions on responsible persons; the immediate processing of complaints made about prosecutors in certain cases; but no action has been carried out on the investigations, despite the secrecy of investigations; the release of documents from prosecutors and lawyers in certain media groups; the investigations of forensic medicine and ÜBITAK have not yet been carried out in the course of a fair trial. A parliamentary investigation is needed to determine whether the arrest warrant, which is a preventative protection measure, has turned into criminal sanctions for long periods of imprisonment, and whether the rights of the individuals to a fair trial of their most basic rights have been violated. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Based on a law of authority, which has been issued on the basis of a state-run law that has completely altered the structure and functioning of the state agency, and has imposed a bypass to national will and representative TBM, the unnecessary division of ministries and public institutions, conflicting, neutralized and inefficiency, increasing public service costs, reducing the dignity and influence of the state, reducing the waste of human resources, structuralisation of political neutrality, and deepening political neutrality, reducing state institutions' active and justice service to the nation, and lowering the capacity of public institutions, and lowering the failure of other negative results, we have brought to the conclusion of the Law of 62rd Law, a reduction of the government's dignity and influence, a reduction of human resources, and a reduction of civility, and an analysis of the Constitution of civility, and the Constitution of the Constitution, and the European Parliament, which requires of political institutions, and the Constitution and the Constitution will require to be brought to be brought to life by the European Parliament, and the European Parliament. [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mughle]] 5) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Kütahya]] [[Aydın]] [[Lug]] [[Antalya]] 11) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] 12) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] [[Yozgat]] [[Mersin]] 18) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Scholarship]] Since the AKP came to power in 2002, Turkey has entered a process of rapid change in neoliberism, which is shaped by policies driven by global forces. In Turkey, all areas of life have been shaped according to the demands of global forces, the demands of surrender and the needs of the new era, from economy to politics, from social life to public administration. Two months before the general elections, the law, which shut down parliament, authorised the government to issue a decree for six months, was adopted at the Grand National Assembly's session of 6 April 2011. In the six-month period, the AKP and the Legislative Law issued 35 rulings, establishing, closing, unifying, separating ministries. As the public administration redesigned from top to bottom, the first steps have been taken to establish the legal basis for changes planned on public employees. Changes in the status and future of public employees and changes in the framework of the prime minister and ministries have been said to have made public administrative structure more compatible with the market. The first steps have been taken to launch public contract employment from above, starting with top public executives, with regulations that are positively perceived in public as "equal pay for equal work" to our nation's "public revolution" slogan, but in today's public administration system, which means "payment according to the leadership title." The last rings of transmutation are completed in the public and the political authoritarianity of TBMM's "I've done it" logic is displayed. It is very important for our nation to protect society against the harms of the threats faced by the government to bring what the government has made to employees and to large sections of society. When we subtitle all exfiltrations, we can see how public administration is wanted to be reorganised so that Turkey can be integrated into the new world order and become dependent on global powers. All those in executive staffs in the issued SECs and public institutions have been taken into unprovoked counseling staffs, and legally closed their search for rights has resulted in a major injustice. As a result of these arrangements, hundreds of public employees were appointed as personal staff consultants in each ministry. So a large amount of public spending was born. This aims to neutralize current employees and create an army of employees who can identify and influence public institutions. It is clear how unlawful, wrong and antidemocratic it is that the government is acting in a new state structure, wrong and antidemocratic way, when one of the main aims of the constitution is to establish the structure and the functioning of the state and the establishment of its institutions, when a new constitution is being debated and debated and studied. A motion has been made to demonstrate the changes and effects of the Council of Ministers, to determine the measures that must be taken by our nation and its representative, the High Assembly, to ensure that they will not be indifferent to these developments, and that they will be able to address the injustice and threatening negativity that this law is bringing when the road is near. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday 22,01,2013 (today), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Council. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" bill number 35 has been adopted into the fourth place of this section and the order of other tasks has been determined according to this. In order to determine the measures which should be taken by the Group Chairs of the Party Group Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahraman MP Mahir Ünal and 135 MPs, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezlu and the illegal phone and the alleged wiretapping allegations should be taken under investigation on behalf of the MHP Group, Group Chairs İzmir MP Oktay Öçal and Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir had to be investigated in order to determine the measures to be taken under investigation of illegal phone calls and media hearings, which needed to be investigated by an illegal telephone and by the İstanbul MP Mustafa Sekulu, and by the alleged hearings of the Parliament on behalf of the MPship of the MPship of the Party Group, and on the basis of the basis of the Council of Beysısımazımazı, on behalf of İstanbul MP Oktay Süçalılı and Mersin MP Mehmet Şan Şanıdirıdirıdir, on the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the scope of the scope of the scope of the proceedings of the hearing of the hearing of the hearing of the hearing of the hearing of the hearing of the hearing of the hearing of the proceedings of the talks and the talk, on which has to which has been carried out of an illegal. To be held in the same day's merger, along with the City Council Research Proclamation, The General Assembly's continued work on Tuesday (January 22, 2013) to complete business talks on the 394th floor of this merger, without discussing verbal questions. It's recommended. There's no demand for words on behalf of the groups. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration; I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, I would like to submit to you the issue of the issue of the Law Proposal 2/141, which shall be brought directly to the agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Mustafa Kalaycı who asked for a word on behalf of the bidder is an MP of the Conium.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0014par0310	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to increase the pension and not discriminate between our veterans in this month's payment. On this occasion, I salute you all. According to Law 1005, honourary pension is tied to 5750 indicators of the Instance War, Korea and Cyprus veterans and the officer's salary coefficient multiplication. Those who document whether they receive or receive no monthly income from any social security institution and do not work at any job are paid monthly via net minimum wage. According to this, the honorary pension is now worth $424 or $773, as far as the veteran's condition is concerned. The salary of honor is both paid differently and very inadequate. Giving our veterans a different salary of honor is not suitable for their purpose, since it is based on a criteria other than the criteria for monthly binding. Our veterans are complaining that the AKP government is dissociating them as if they were less honorable and more honorable. In our proposal for the law, it is expected that the pensions attached to our veterans will be raised to a gross minimum wage, giving them all the same amount of honor, as well as the monthly commitment to their children and their parents in the event of their death. The rights of martyr families and veterans and invalids must be improved and the unjust and segregating practices between them must be eliminated. You know, it has been expressed by the Prime Minister and ministers that the money collected from the practice of paying military will be used for martyr relatives, veterans and invalids. However, according to the law adopted by the AKP's government on December 30, 2012, payments from the budget, such as the additional payments, education and teaching benefits, public housing loans, rent costs, disability care service, disabled pensions, private education students, and expenditures under the investment programme, have been envisioned. Thus, it is understood that the budget deficit has been reduced by financing payments from the budget over the years, with the money collected from the military. Why is it hidden from public opinion that these funds will be used for budget deficits? Why is there no new project, no new payment, or any improvement in current rights? The expectations of martyr families, veterans and invalids are known. Will the wages of veterans and disability be increased, then, as part of the commitments? Will the deceased be tied to his parents for the minimum wage separately? Will all the children of martyrs be given the right to work? Will honorary pensions be attached to those awarded the State Medal of Honor? Will an old man's salary be attached to his disability on the day of 3,600 bonuses? Will all rights be used by the martyrs and the disability of law enforcement and military duty? Will duty agents be granted interest-free mortgages? Will the orthotypes, prosthetics, equipment, and medical materials used by combat and duty disability be met without any restrictions? Will the salary of 251 lira and $377 be increased to the disabled? Martyr families, veterans, invalids and disabled people expect you to do so. In July of last year, the bag was issued with the law, and the martyrs were granted a second job, but they still haven't been put into practice. The second right of employment becomes meaningless if the deceased's parents and siblings fail to exercise their right to work for pension or other reasons. In such a case, the right must be given to the children of martyrs. The arrangements must be made. I thank you, I pay my respects again.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0015par0320	Thank you. And now, on behalf of an MP, Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0016par0323	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the matter of the honorary month. I salute your honorable committee. Dear MPs, the 1005 is awarded honorary pensions for the veterans of İstliklal, Korea and Cyprus, according to the Law on the Monthly Bond of Honorary Service for those who have been awarded an Identification Medal of 1005. Those of our veterans who have no income and who do not work are paid a net minimum wage. The number of 5750 indicators to employees, with any income, is tied monthly to the officer's salary coefficient, which is less than half of the minimum wage. In the event of the death of the rightful owner, this month's widow is tied to 75 per cent. As it turns out, it is considered whether or not veterans can receive or work monthly, except in the case of patriotic service, in connection with the monthly bonding of honor. This certainly does not suit the purpose of an honorary allowance. The salary of honor must be paid in full, uninterrupted and evenly, at gross minimum wage, regardless of any conditions. Korean and Cypriot veterans should also be awarded state medals. Honorary pensions must also be attached to those given the State Medal of Honor. The 61st Article under which our Constitution shall be protected in terms of social security is the 61st article, protecting widows, orphans and veterans and providing a proper life level in society. However, salaries for those with high-profile medals and for Korean and Cypriot veterans are far below the minimum level of living. According to Law 1005 of Turkish citizens who have participated in the war with Turkish citizens who have been awarded the royal medal and in Korea and Cyprus, the months tied to the national service arrangement are clearly raised to a gross minimum wage, according to Law 1005. Even if our citizens receive another income or work a job, it is expected to be paid. In addition, in the event of the death of the veteran, 75 per cent of the month is expected to be given to the widow, 25 per cent to her children and parents. Mr. President, dear MPs, I'd like to bring to the attention of the Grand Assembly again some of the issues that have been missing in the regulations regarding the law of bag number 6353 in which we adopted the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 4 July 2012, regarding the martyrs, the veterans and their disability. We, the National Movement Party, would like to place a job guarantee for all of our martyrs' children, regardless of their number. We are married to our martyrs and have around 300 martyrs with two or three children. When our martyr has more than one child, the other children of the martyr remain exposed because the second job is given to one of the martyr's brothers. This can sometimes lead to disagreements between the spouse and children of the martyr and the parents and the brothers. All children of our martyrs should be given jobs, no matter the number. Our veterans should also be given second jobs. Those of our veterans and their fellow martyrs should not be held except by income tax. Under Article 28 of Law 5510, our disabled citizens are entitled to early retirement according to their reports. The growing age of retirement poses a major challenge for veterans with various physical and spiritual problems. In the event of documenting the fact that they are veterans, the current working gas should be given the right to early retirement if they fill out the number of 3,600 bonus days, regardless of their tax exemption reports. The families of the martyrs and the veterans' monthlys must be healed quickly and their disability rates must be increased. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0017par0332	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0018par0333	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary is here, and perhaps if you could give me some information in five minutes about solving the problems of this second job, there are problems.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0017par0334	Yes, there's been no request, sir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Nevşehir MP Abu Bakir Secretider has been nominated for one member of the Justice and Development Party Group, which is empty in the Constitutional Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We move on to the part of the agenda's "Preparations for General Discussion and Assembly Research." Now, according to the decision made by İzmir MP Riza Turmen and 25 MPs on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, group MPs Izmir MP Oktay Ökal and Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir., İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu and 30 MPs' members of the Justice and Development Party Group, group MPs Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşenur Bahçakakılı, Adıman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal and 135 MPs; Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan's Party's Party of Justice and Democratic Party Party members of the Party of Peace and members of parliament, together starting to investigate a special investigation of parliaments, and to investigate the laws of parliaments of parliament, while they are in accordance with the law. Government? He's in position. The motion of İzmir MP Reza Türmen and 25 MPs, which took place during the 73rd part of the agenda, is not being reread since it was read in the 27th Union of the General Assembly, dated 1/12/2011. And the other motions, I'm going to have them read in order now. Since the third parliamentary survey motion I will read is more than 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the privacy and protection of private life guaranteed in the Constitution, it is known that freedom of communication has been severely violated, especially by listening and serving in illegal ways and methods. The AKP government has been investigating these allegations thus far, claiming that the Prime Minister is not taking the necessary measures enough to get him to rest. Therefore, we would like to request that the Constitution open a parliamentary investigation on the basis of Article 104-105 of Articles of the 98th Amendment, Internal Code, to determine the measures and the solutions to be made, including the technical facilities and capabilities carried out by public officials, including administrative, criminal and legal regulations. MP MHP Group Chairman MHP Group Vice President The most obvious quality of real democracies is "Mordomism." It's the name of a regime where everyone can express what they think, live as they please, democracy. The framework of pluralism is defined by the definition of rights and freedoms laid out in the Constitution. One of these definitions is the 22nd article of our Constitution, which contains the title "Freedom of Information." This clause refers to the secrecy of communication. In accordance with Article 22, the decision of the judge to ensure secrecy is required by the authority, as long as the decision of the judge is to be made within 24 hours in case there is a delay. The violation of privacy also causes the removal of rights and freedoms, especially in violation of privacy and housing immunity and preventing yourself from expressing your thoughts freely. Many incidents and allegations have been made public in recent years that the freedom of communication guaranteed in the Constitution has been violated by unlawful listening. To date, the government has preferred to investigate these allegations and to pass them on in a court of law rather than to reassure the public, and to cover them up without voicing claims. This stance should not be the position of a government that came with the will of the people in pluralistic democracies. The government's insensitivity is disturbing to everyone and to everyone. Moreover, with the methods of listening, the limits of listening, which are not fully understood, the sentence decisions made by some courts to eliminate human freedom are often expressed by the judicial circles, and concerns in the public are becoming more evident. On the other hand, the monitoring of public officials' wiretaps is a separate problem. Clearly, these controls need to be determined by their actual and legal limitations. The absence of those responsible for illegal wiretaps and surveillance in particular has led to the conclusion that these wiretaps and surveillances were carried out by some public officials. As a matter of fact, the Prime Minister's testimony that some public officials may be involved in listening is a reflection of that opinion. However, the will to govern the state must remove these concerns. This leads to the creation of a society that feels insecure towards each other and the state, and results in severe social trauma. At times, the use of these listenings as a tool in the political arena, the desire to be seen by illegitimate listening to accounts that were not seen in the polls, so witnessing attempts to promote and silence opposition and politics has become one of the realities our country has faced for the past ten years. Lawmakers and lawmakers who enforced the law, instead of dealing with how and who are listening to the power pressures and the hearings, their interest in gossip and rumors, and their involvement in this agenda has been a weakness in democratic law states. The unsubstantiated wiretaps, which have been reflected in public opinion, have not been revealed until now, confirming these claims. The possibility that the country's Prime Minister's office has been bugged recently, and the fact that it has been addressed by the Prime Minister himself, has once again demonstrated the seriousness of these allegations raised by the opposition, but has strengthened our people's fears that they live in a more insecure and autocratic society. The fact that the country's prime minister personally dealt with the unofficial listening incident has made our people desperate, pessimistic, and insecure. The Supreme Court of the Constitution has also launched a separate legal debate regarding the evidence obtained during the investigation in the High Court's High Court's Bribery case, the fact that wiretaps and audio recordings were illegal and that all defendants were acquitted and that some lower-level courts are still making convictions based on more illegitimate listening. As part of the privacy and protection of private life guaranteed in the Constitution, it is known that the freedom of communication has been severely violated, especially by listening and serving in illegal ways and methods. The AKP government has been investigating these allegations thus far, claiming that the Prime Minister is not taking the necessary measures enough to get him to rest. For this reason, we would like to submit the grounds, unlawful wiretaps and surveillance of public officials, and the control of the wiretaps, which are being carried out by public officials, to establish the measures taken, including technical capabilities, administrative, criminal and legal regulations, and to determine the solutions to be produced by the Constitutional Court, the 98th, the Internal Code, the 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In every part of the community, uncertainty and illegal practices continue about wiretaps that cause intense reactions. Article 22 of our constitution concerning freedom of communication states that everyone has freedom of communication and emphasizes that the basis of this freedom is secrecy. Similarly, the registration of talks and publication of these records are openly considered a crime in regulations concerning the protection of private life in the Turkish Penal Code (TCK). If the Criminal Court (CMK) has not found any evidence of crime at the end of the wiretaps, your phone calls have been tapped to the person concerned within 15 days, there is no criminal element available." But as illegal listening in our country is a subject of unlawful trial in court, it has become a means of punishment for those who oppose power, based on rumors of non-lawful listening. Despite all this, it is remarkable that the government does not make clear and adequate explanations of who, in which history, in which way, and for what purpose. Through wiretaps, there is almost an empire of fear in our country, and freedom of communication of our citizens is constrained in a sense. The limited freedom has become so common in our country that even those in the top positions of the judiciary reflect that they are being listened and followed as an ordinary event. In our country, in recent years, we've been living with illegal wiretaps and surveillance, perhaps the most obvious example of rights violations, especially in matters of human rights that have never been cut off. Those who criticize power or side with it face this threat almost at any time. The failure to prevent this illegality and even the fact that the country's prime minister adopts the role of a harbinger of listening tapes in the election squares reveals the best possible purpose for which this threat was used. Despite all warnings and warnings, this unlawfulness in this area is being legalized by the courts, and the judiciary is expected to distribute justice over this unlawfulness. The wiretaps and tracking were not limited to election squares, but to be used by the prime minister as a threat to the leader of the main opposition party. At a group meeting of his party, the prime minister boasted that despite this unlawfulness, which should be embarrassed because it could not be prevented, his main opposition leader's steps were followed and followed in great excitement and ignorance. Our citizens have been reluctant to even bring friendly conversations into a telephone environment. Public research, which is based on this issue, suggests that our citizens are living under suspicion that almost all of them are being listened to, and that this right-to-be has been accepted as a fate because of pressure from power. It demonstrates that the cries of advanced democratic rhetoric represent further bullying by citizens, given these answers. These horrors and violent practices created by the government in order to maintain its presence, and in the upcoming local election process, the opposition parties want to be used as a weapon against local government executives. Unsubstantiated success in the election is sought through unlawfulness, which turns into a basic human rights massacre. The mayors have no other duty or intention than to serve the public. Despite being tasked by the public to carry the same goal with the public mayors, the rule of government in our country chooses to destroy its failures by building a fear order to achieve shame for humanity. The situation, which all Turkey complains about, has been voiced, unfortunately, by the ruling who has been exposed to unlawfulity. Despite the fact that the break-in took place a year earlier, the Prime Minister shared this fatal event in an ordinary and common way for our country. The Prime Minister, who took over the prosecutor's office on charges of unlawful wiretaps, pleaded guilty to the fact that he had been listening to the opposition in this way, complained about this unlawfulness he had seen for years. The prime minister, who is approaching the number of protections to be described as an army in many countries around the world, also has to be investigated. All the public is curious and wants to know why the break-in was explained a year later, and why the government had suddenly taken a stand for such initiatives that it had interpreted as an ordinary development so far. My governor, my police officer, despite what they describe as my confidante MIT Undersecretary -- which is very serious in the final definition -- despite the fact that a person in charge of country intelligence is a confidant of the Prime Minister, this unlawful intelligence work must be known for what purpose and for what benefit. All public opinion on this matter is clear. The importance and reason of the Prime Minister's hearing period and the identification of the basis of a hearing a year earlier, the detection of listening by whom and for what purpose this wiretap was made by whom and how it was used as a means to create fear patterns, the detection of listening to politicians in our country, the detection of legal hearings, the establishment of legal procedures for which there is no court order, and the establishment of responsibility for listening without a judgment, and the establishment of the final process of listening, and the dissolution of these hearings by whom and what kind of measures are being used as a means of blackmail against the politicians in our country, we would be able to determine by the basis of what kind of parliamentary measures and what kind of measures are needed by the constitution, and for what kind of parliamentary considerations in Turkey. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 10) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] 15) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly How criminal activities such as the unlawful detection of communication content among individuals, how these tools are provided, how these tools are provided, how they are provided, how they are provided, how they are obtained, how they are obtained, whether they are registered, whether they are in secret living spaces, or whether there are legal restrictions on whether there are legal restrictions on whether or not they can be seen by other individuals, or whether there are legal restrictions on how they should be taken in order to solve this problem -- legal, administrative, investment and other measures -- in order to identify, in order to determine, in order to determine, in order to determine, in the context of our Constitution, 10th and 10th Amendments -- and in order to determine the outside of the 10th article of the 10th Amendment, and how to determine how these tools and how these tools are being provided and how these tools are being provided and how these tools are required to be obtained, and to determine the nature of these tools, in order to be obtained, in order to determine the matter of private and to determine the matter of the matter of the matter of this issue of this issue of this issue of this problem. [[Let's go.]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adıyaman]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Fractured]] 9) Mehmet Doğan Kubat [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Akif Çağatay Sword [[Samsun]] [[Edirne]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Ahmet Baha Öğüken [[İstanbul]] [[Bartin]] [[Elizipt]] 21) Omar Faruk Öz [[Malatya]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Yozgat]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanrı]] [[İstanbul]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 29) Mine Leuk White [[Diyarbakır]] 30) Mehmet Kerim Yıldız [[Pain]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] 36) Cigdem Münevver Ökten [[Mersin]] [[Karabük]] 38) Hasan Ali Çelik [[Sakarya]] [[Rize]] [[Pain]] [[Mardin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Denizli]] 44) H. Hami Yıldırım [[Burdur]] [[Sakarya]] 46) Abdullah Nejat Koçer [[Gaziantep]] [[Tripoli]] [[Niğde]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Sinop]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] 53) Ali Reza Alaboyun [[Aksaray]] 54) Mahmoud Mujahit Nuts [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 56) Stopped Mehmet Kastal [[Osmaniye]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] [[Mardin]] [[İstanbul]] 62) Haci Bayram Türkoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 66) Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kırşehir]] 69) Ahmet Haldun Erturk [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Siirt]] 74) Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 76) Muhammad Bilal Macit [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Elizipt]] 79) Hasan Fehmi Kinay [[Kütahya]] [[Kütahya]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] 83) Mehmet Ali Okur [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 84) Mehmet Cemal Öztaylan [[Balıkesir]] 85) Mehmet Emin Dindar [[Şırnak]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 89) Ahmet Kutalmis Türkesh [[İstanbul]] 90) Tofik Ziyaeddin Akbulut [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Silver House]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Let's go.]] [[Elizipt]] [[Isparta]] [[Kars]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Rize]] 105) Ali Ihsan Yavuz [[Sakarya]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Batman]] [[Çanrı]] [[Erzurum]] [[Sivas]] [[Karaman]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mwah.]] [[Sivas]] 118) Abu Bekir Secreter [[Nevşehir]] [[İstanbul]] 120) Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç [[Isparta]] [[Dull]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 123) Saint Sibel Gönul [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Dull]] [[Eskişehir]] 127) Gökcen Özdoğan Enç [[Antalya]] 128) Mohamed Murtaza Kığ [[Adıyaman]] [[Elizipt]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Janitor]] [[Let's go.]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kırşehir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Malatya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the title of the rights and homework of our Constitution, the freedom of privacy and communication of private life is guaranteed for the protection of basic rights and freedoms. In Article 20 of the Constitution, it has been assured that everyone has the right to respect their privacy and family life and that there is no privacy of privacy of privacy of privacy and family life, and that there is still a problem in the matter of which everyone has freedom of communication and that communication is based on the written order of national security, public order of crime, that communication cannot be prevented, and that communication cannot be prevented unless there is a written order on the basis of common health and general morality or on the basis of a judge's rights and freedoms of others. In particular, criminal sanctions, such as the detection of communication through telecommunications, listening, recording, and evaluation of signal information, are defined in the legislation as to what conditions the decisions can be taken, what courts can be made, what mandatory elements the decisions must be made, what law enforcement of these decisions should be carried out, and who are in charge of the records and in violation of those rights. In the framework of the legislation on the subject, it is also a crime to detect and record a private life event that cannot be seen in a hidden living area or in any other form, as the content of communication among individuals is unlawfully identified, listened, and recorded. Despite these basic rights and effective criminal sanctions guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, public opinion has shown that the talks between people have been heard, recorded, and sometimes used against the law, using all the illegal methods provided by the world's technical developments, such as insects, hidden cameras, or remote listening systems. In this context, we propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in order to determine the legal, administrative, employment and other measures that must be taken in order to address the use of illegal listenings, how these vehicles are provided, how these vehicles are provided, how they are provided, and how they are introduced, and how they should be obtained in order to determine the legal, administrative, employment and other measures in order to resolve this problem. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Secret listening," known as "technical pursuit," is not off the agenda of listening and monitoring. It doesn't look like it's gonna come off the agenda at this rate. People's personal, political, professional, and family lives have always been a subject of curiosity and interest. But it is clear that there is a limit and that people want to trust the laws and enforcers that draw this line. The time has come for effective protection of individual rights and freedoms against both legal and illegal listening and monitoring. That's everybody's problem in common. The rules of law on stealth listening and monitoring must be fully enforced, and the rules of law which are inadequate in this regard must be met as soon as possible. The office of work under the Prime Minister's house, which has been under the statement of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has been detected in the office of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code to be carried out and taken into action. [[Şırnak]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Covert wiretaps, wiretaps, communications and violations of personality rights remain on the agenda, but more and more. From the prime minister to the Supreme Court, from the Chief of Staff to the government, from political parties to bureaucracy, from business to ordinary citizens, almost everyone complains without listening and is concerned. It's called "the gang," "gladio," "the deep state," or "contgerilla," that's the most illegal criminal organizations have ever resorted to, and it's been terrifying. Technologies, IT, satellite broadcasts, such as cell phones, wiretaps, laser beams, dishes, SMS, e-mails, Internet, most of the most secret listening into life's spaces, criminal gangs, detectives, rival companies, political opponents, almost everyone seems to be interested in them. Highest-level military talks with a confidentiality record have already fallen to social media. An application that has been reflected in the written and visual media has deeply hurt the state of law, where the security environment has dropped to zero, no one has any guarantees, and each one gets away with it. Foreign agents are running wild, domestic collaborators are selling the country's secrets for a dime. Political, civilian space, trade, military, police, the judiciary has reached a high level of anxiety. Microphone recorders, digital audio recorders, spy pen, glasses, keychain cameras, microphones, listening systems, GSM media listening, listening, monitoring, all kinds of devices can be sold and bought like bread and cheese on the street, online shopping. With this kind of equipment, threats, blackmail, assault on personality rights, illegal gain has become a common case. As the most controversial form of evidence in the criminal trial, there are "secret wiretaps," and there are no tapes, no audio recordings. Secret wiretaps are a violation of their privacy by accessing information within the privacy of individuals. This right as a right to privacy or as a right to privacy and is violated by covert wiretaps, including international documents, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, has been placed in the fundamental rights category, as well as in the constitutions of almost all countries. Indirectly, the 1950 European Convention on the Protection of Basic Freedoms and Human Rights is stated in Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 22 of the Constitution in Turkey and is stated in Article 133 and 140 of the penal institutions. The universal level of development that humanity has reached, and the common mind at this level, has taken the individual's personal life and communication to absolute protection. This protection can only be suspended in the event of a strong suspicion of crime, if there is no other way to obtain evidence for the purposes of the resuscitation of criminal social peace and peace, as long as it is decided by the judge. The common mind is guilty if it is not based on a legal judge's decision, regardless of who listens to or records private communication between individual freedoms at a maximum level, to keep the possibility of social development open. The record of this person or individuals will not be evidence, nor will he testify to the information he has obtained, and his statement in this regard is strictly against the law. Criminal norms that maintain the right to privacy must be reviewed, the sanctions of these crimes must be aggravated. This framework should include the abuse of data and evidence obtained due to all illegal listening, listening, and surveillance, and the harsher punishments of public officials who have done so, regardless of the complaint. Since the decision to supervise communication is confidential and cannot be immediately contested by its interests, such decisions should be examined in a strict way as to whether there are legal conditions in the scope of concrete action during its implementation, the decisions to oversee communication should be met not only on abstract legal grounds, but on concrete grounds, and should be carried out by expert judges outside the decision-making authority. It is useful to set up a research commission to investigate all these issues, to make legal arrangements and to take precautions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On behalf of the BDP Group, the need for the opening of Parliamental Research as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to ensure that communication can be done in order to remove the privacy of private life and listen to an environment that constitutes an open human rights violation and bring the current problems to the agenda. BDP Group Deputy President BDP Group Deputy Director In violation of the law and in its name, it is called prevention, forensic or media listening, as a result, the secrecy of communication has been eliminated. In recent years, illegal listening has increased, despite efforts to overcome all criticism and violation of the law over the past few years. At first, the Justice Department stated that they were aware of these wiretaps and that the wiretaps were in accordance with the law, while the situation is already out of control. Because the judge, prosecutors and politicians, are also victims of media listening. In a criminal trial, however, illegal evidence cannot be based on judgment. "There is no excuse for making evidence in a democratic state of law, the basic purpose of the investigation and the duty of the arm, but to legitimize and violate human rights violations of this purpose and duty," the Criminal General Assembly ruled 15/10/2002 days and 8-191/362. In his opinion, he rejects illegal evidence. Again, the Supreme Court of Appeals ruled 28/9/1999 days and 213/219: "If no evidence has been obtained according to the conditions set by the lawmaker, this evidence cannot be endured." He's given his statement. "The fact that the evidence provided against the law is not intended to be taken into account by the third party does not eliminate unlawful conduct," the Constitutional Court said in a resolution. If the way the evidence is obtained violates people's constitutional rights, it must be acknowledged that it has been obtained against the law." He has noted that illegal evidence cannot be admitted, that the rights and freedoms of a person cannot be violated with such dignity. As a matter of fact, according to Article 22 of the Constitution, everyone has the freedom of communication and the secrecy of communication is essential. In Article 8 of the European Convention on Protection of Human Rights and Basic Freedoms, which we are on the side of and by approving internal law, it is stated that the rights of a public authority must be respected only in a democratic society, on the condition that the intervention of national security, public security, the country's economic well-being, the protection of the country's economic well-being and order, the protection of crime, health or morality or other rights and freedoms should be provided by the extent necessary and the law. However, in some cases, even judges and prosecutors, the primary victim of this situation, have been able to apply these evidences, which have been obtained through covert wiretaps, and, in light of these evidence, they are able to sign unlawful decisions. The Supreme Court's rulings, however, have no excuse to legitimize and violate human rights violations in order to obtain evidence. In this respect, it is necessary to remove phone wiretaps in the case file when it is understood that they are "unlawful evidence." But at the present point, the secrecy of communication has been eliminated, and everyone's communication has become open and secret listening is practically legal. As we have explained, the main person at the stage is the person whose rights and freedoms have been violated the most, and the need to be examined by a commission for the resuscitation of the trust in the law by preventing the problems of this area and preventing open law violations. It has been presented to your knowledge. Now, we're going to begin the preliminary discussion of the Parliamental research motions I've been reading, as agreed. According to our Interior Charter, parliament will be promised to the government, political party groups and the first signee in the motions, or another signator, in order to determine whether or not to open its investigation. Their talking time is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders. Now, I'm reading the names of the members who have been mentioned in the name of the government: Bakili Yıldırım, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications. On behalf of the groups: Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; Faruk Bal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Reza Turmen on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; İzmir MP on behalf of the AK PARTI Group; Yilmaz Tunç on behalf of the Party for Peace and Democracy, Bartın MP. The motion is: Namik Havutça, Balıkesir MP, Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP; Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP; Zeyid Aslan, Tokat MP and Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP. Now, the first word, in the name of the government, belongs to Mr. Bali Yıldırım, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of a parliamentary commission to determine, prevent, prevent, and take necessary measures to determine violations of private life through illegal listening and technological instruments given to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, it's very important and admirable that listening is on the agenda of the Grand Assembly, especially to prevent illegal listening. With the rapid development of technology, the fact that communication is being done in the virtual environment, whether it's being done in audio or visually or in writing, raises doubts and concerns about rest in society. This phenomenon is not only valid for Turkey, but is also available in developed Western countries, where technology is advanced. Therefore, this research commission, which will undoubtedly provide important information on the fight against illegal wiretaps, will undoubtedly provide an important reference for any measures that need to be taken. Before we engage in illegal wiretaps, I'd like to express our country's current legislation regarding listening. The first arrangement for communication intervention in Turkey was made in 1999. The Law on Anti-Terrorism was allowed to listen to communication through changes made in Law 4422. However, after the new Penal Code (CMK) was adopted, Act 5320 and Anti-Terror Law 4422 were invalidated, and the matter of listening to communication in Turkey has gone outside the law again. Telecommunication Communication Presidency has been established in order to ensure changes in some Laws No. 5397 and listening activities are carried out by a single central, administrative structure, and an administrative unit, under the name TİB, has been committed to the Information Technologies and Communication Institution. In addition to the establishment of TİB chapter 5397, the Law on Police Law 2559 has been issued, the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Intelligence and Intelligence (TİB) 2803, the Law on Law on Law on Duty and Authority on Duty and Authority 2937, and some Articles of the State Intelligence Service Law on State Intelligence Service Law on Intelligence Services and Intelligence Agency Law on the matter have been changed, and has been given authority over TİB. Through telecommunications, secondary legislation on the establishment, tasks and powers of the Telecommunications Communication Presidency has been established and carried out in 2006, with procedures for detecting communication through telecommunications, listening, monitoring and recording information. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been guaranteed the freedom of communication of citizens by Article 22 of the Constitution. In addition, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights has arranged and imposed provisions to prevent illegal listening. In both of these arrangements, the special lives of individuals were included in the provision of their communication information, and punishments were prescribed in violation. The Turkish Penal Code also has such provisions. However, I am resting in society, and his concern is not over. Almost everyone in our country today has this anxiety. The removal of this and the destruction of all obstacles to freedom of communication is one of the leading duties of the legal state. Well, why did we get to this point, we need to take a look at it. I've just said, before 2006 in Turkey, before the establishment of the TİB, there was a whole lot of joy in listening. Even legal wiretaps could easily be done by intelligence agencies or any other agency, including listening to the main issues, which could cause people to suffer. The arrangement in 2006 brought a very clear limit. What is this boundary? Three organizations: police, gendarmes and intelligence. It's the same in all countries. Intelligence institutions perform wiretaps to do intelligence activities in foreign countries, monitoring the existence of any illegal formation or activity related to the country for the security of the country, and sharing it with management, execution, is the leading duty of intelligence agencies. In the same way, police and gendarmes are able to carry out listening activities in connection with law or to prevent crime or to fight terrorism. When we looked at the period before the establishment of the TİB, we saw that there were serious abuses here, that listening often went out of context. That's why these listening mechanisms have been changed, and this change is that the institutions that are authorized to listen will come to Telecommunication Communication President, and Telecommunications Communications President will determine whether these demands are in accordance with the law, and if he finds them appropriate, he will allow them to be heard. When we look at such practices, over 25,000 of the demands for listening to Telecommunications Communication Chairman have been rejected from the date of the law's execution; demands have been denied, rejected, and returned. This is an important development. Another important change that we make with this Law is this: Here, information, documents, data obtained by illegal listening can never be used as evidence, and in the case of its use, there are severe penalties according to the Turkish Penal Code. Again, with the latest amendment to the Turkish Penal Code, the amendment to this Parliament has increased the hearings here by 50 per cent. With the latest amendment in 2012, the punishment for illegal listening has also been increased in the Turkish Penal Code. Law No. 6352, issued on July 2, 2012, has increased sentences related to the spread of these wiretaps on the Internet. As a result, Article 5271's Law of Criminal Accounts, the audit of communication through telecommunications with Law 5397, has been granted legal assurance, preventing individual listening from conducting these activities from a single centre, for the reasons of disorganized intelligence or evidence research or grounds. In particular, listening to the media is illegal listening on the Internet, which is the biggest cause of concern in the society by using different electronic tools to publish information or images for private lives. The measures for these wiretaps will surely be the subject of this research commission. One thing needs to be known: Turkey has taken another step towards that goal. Last year, the European Commission's Cybercrime Convention was involved in the mechanism of co-operation against crimes that could be committed in the online environment by signing our country. This means that 49 countries have signed this agreement. With the signing of this agreement, 49 countries and Turkey have signed an agreement on aid, and with this kind of construction, there is 24/7 communication at IT centers. With this communication, it's being interfered immediately. An illegal activity on the Internet is evident in the amount of time it takes to fight legal action against personal rights. It's easy to reach thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of people in a matter of minutes. Therefore, if we consider that the measures you will take here, the legal measures, the judge's decision, the prosecutor's decision, are possible in the best possible way in a day, it is inevitable to develop different methods in this fight. That's why the European Council of Cybercrimes Convention is a tool. This place will be in constant contact with the enforcement units related to TİB (TİB) and IT, allowing it to intervene in these and such events. Mr. President, good lawmakers, when arrangements are being made, the principle is that listening is the exception, communication is the basis. So if there's no other way to fight crime or crime, if we have to find evidence or we have to work against terrorism, listening, monitoring, tracking signals shouldn't be the first thing that comes to mind. Freedom of communication is constitutionally guaranteed, the privacy of individuals is constitutionally guaranteed. Thus, those who act contrary to this must see and see the punishment required under the existing legislation. Our laws are clear on this matter. It is a fact that we have problems in practice. Unfortunately, it is known that those who complain without listening do not apply to an upper court. All this stuff...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0019par0830	He doesn't know, Mr. Secretary, that he's resting. No one complains after they've heard about it, it's interesting. And that's understandable, because it takes a long time to get results, and when a citizen becomes a plaintiff again, these issues become public, and again, there's another victim. In that sense, I think that the work of this research commission will be an important opportunity for further arrangements, and we, as the government, provide the necessary support for this motion. I also want to thank all party groups, the AK PARTY, the Republican People's Party, the National Party of Action and the Party of Peace and Democracy, for their sensitiveness in this matter, which society has focused on. I salute the High Council with my regards to the work that will contribute to our country, our nation, our people's concerns.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0020par0835	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP asking for the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0021par0838	Mr. President, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you all. Really, when we were elected in 2007, about wiretaps, wiretaps, wiretaps, wiretaps, technical wiretaps, and multi-directional listening, one of the first jobs that we did when we came to Congress was to submit this research motion. There were four groups in parliament, and let's say that we're a group that made the first research motion on this issue. Of course, Turkey is a state of law. In the European Union's process, as a country in the process of negotiations, and in accordance with its international laws and international contracts, how Turkey is at a point in the face of national overlapping contracts and developing technique, I would like to share this with you once again in terms of its promise. Today, however, it has been 2007-2012, five years since all four parties have submitted a similar research proposal, which the Minister has just announced, and the government can support. With insects in the Prime Minister's office and in his room in Parliament, such a need was needed because it was also found by advanced insects. We had an offer on the law on all the substances that we gave in the earlier study of legislatures. This is an important part of our proposal, from the violation of communications confidentiality, from the listening and recording of conversations between individuals to the privacy of private life; from the recording of personal data, from the unlawful giving and receiving of data, to qualified violations, complaints, and legal persons, which we recently brought into the Third Judicial Package. I'd like to explain to you what we're about to get to the point where there's such a thing as wiretaps, wiretaps, violations of the human rights of communication, that everyone has come to a point where they're complaining about it. You can call it the gang, the Gladio, the state of the deep, or the conttgerilla, whatever you want, illegal organized crime organizations... Again, most criminal gangs, detectives, rival companies, political opponents, almost everyone sees in the interest of listening from mobile phones to listening devices, laser beams to bowls, SMS to e-mails, to listen to every aspect of life on the Internet. Highest-ranking military talks with a secret record have already fallen to social media. Written and visual media have deeply hurt the state of law, where the security environment has dropped to zero, and no one has any guarantees, and each one gets away with it. Foreign agents are running around, domestic collaborators are selling the country's secrets for pennies, building false evidence against them, private police, special prosecutors, special authorities courts only over listening, extraordinary, corrupting justice, and often using it. It comes to a point where court decisions can be granted indefinitely in cities and metropolitan areas for a month, and unfortunately, that's where the judgment comes in. From microphone recording devices to digital audio recorders, spy pens, glasses, keychains, microphones, listening systems, GSM listening to computers without listening, again cameras, microphones, listening systems, GSM media monitoring, all kinds of devices on the street, all kinds of devices on the Internet, go online, go to Google, sell open-market prices starting at $49, open-sell prices. Go into your computers, and you'll see that the listening devices you want are being sold open, even delivered home. No one's watching, no one's following. As the most controversial form of evidence in the criminal trial, bags of indictments, cut-off indictments began to be created entirely through covert wiretaps from hidden wiretaps. In fact, the members of the judiciary, even the Supreme Court of the Constitution, have complained without listening, and these hearings have been brought to justice recently, you know. Then, the executive complained about it. It was found in the Prime Minister's office. The law is that we're all already resting, and the fact that nothing has ever been identified in terms of the ethical, moral aspect of the tapes, the listening, the monitoring, the images, and the legal nature of the election. So there's no privacy, no freedom of communication, no common rights, no normal life, no actions in the Turkish Penal Code, no effective procedures in the Law of Punishment, and no harm done and no harm done, really, to the secret listening events that are deeply affecting all of Turkey's affairs now, to the Assembly's common solution, to the common mind, to the common necessity. It seems today that these four groups are going to form a joint motion -- this issue -- a research commission like this, and I'm very clear, it's a very late step. Don't look, it's written in the Constitution, freedom of communication, other than that, provisions on personality rights, and I'm also paying attention to other party group proposals, and there's the same part of them that we're talking about. So we're faced with a problem like this, and we have to question ourselves: it's just the constitution, the laws, they've done it, they've done it, they've done it, but they don't apply it. There's a situation that doesn't work, so there's a law that doesn't work, there's a law that doesn't work, and unfortunately, it stinks of judgment, salt. How will the judge judge and judge when the salt smells like it? Because the judiciary is involved in this; the judiciary uses this dirty evidence as one piece of evidence for this dirty wiretap, making a confidential witness for the investigation; and as covert evidence, justice is being tried to be manipulated in Turkey. In the 12th article of the Constitution, every person's rights to be touched, not to be transferred, basic rights and freedoms are wiped out, the freedom of communication in Article 22 is taken underfoot, the privacy of private life is eliminated, the rights of the European Convention on Human Rights above the national law are eliminated, the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code are eliminated. Unfortunately, based on the Anti-Terror Law, we face the same type of evidence in Silivri, CK cases, extraordinary cases, the latest cases, lawyers, lawyers of the Society of Modern Legislators. Well, in that case... why can't national law be a deterrent if it's against it? Second of all, if national law is against it, why can't he take precautions? We'd like to make some identification on that. In the first place, we need to look for answers to the question, "Who is using it, so who is doing the silent listening? " In the first place, intelligence organizations -- or spy activities -- had been messy in Turkey before, Mr. Minister said -- JITEM, gendarme intelligence, General Intelligence, security intelligence, National Intelligence -- MIT -- were listening to different listening to each other, too. Although, now, it's said to be centralized, but it seems to be still a bit of a habit. That's what the apps show. Organic crime regulations with the Anti-Terror Act have increased demand for this market, so the buy market for hidden listening devices has also increased. Special authorities have begun to do serious work in this area. The private court has not looked down on any party, the government. Right-left followed all of them, including different coalitions, and they all took advantage of the secret services. From media intelligence to mafia intelligence, coupsters to gangsters, from the trade and competition of capital companies to the tabloids, look, from here to private security, from private investigator offices watching his wife, his husband, everyone in this country is listening very easily. Who is listening? We are all resting. It says, "We are listening." It says, "We are listening to the legislature, the Parliament." It says, "We are listening to the General Staff." It says, "We are listening to civil society institutions." And of course, we are all resting. It says, "We are all alone." It says, "We are all resting." These special authorities have been right to close the courts by the House, but it's the wrong decision to say, "Look at their case." We need to close these courts immediately and prevent any irregular listening from getting bonuses. When personal rights, law, justice are wounded, I ask you, can a country that listens to such institutions be independent? Is it possible for a country like this to be independent? Unfortunately, it's not. So, what's TUBITAK doing with us? THE court is sending a file to TÜBITAK, and it can't send its answer for a year. We've divided the world's money by 20 percent in this Parliamentary period, and the 23rd term. They've developed one phone about these wiretaps -- it's been displayed in the media, you've seen that phone -- that phone needs to have the same phone on the other side so it doesn't have to be tapped, it's a primitive phone system. Now, there are so many ways to listen, to watch, to observe, to see, that you have a key chain, glasses, headphones, pencils, buttons, cufflinks, all of your clocks can be a listening, a tracking, a recording device; so common, so common in the market... let them pass, let them pass, let them pass. If such a free market is implemented in a state of law, the Prime Minister will find bugs in the wiretap and find ordinary citizens. Look, first they sell bugs, then they activate the bug detection market. We've got frequency analysis, scanning. Laser listening systems are separate, digital, listening to the environment. In the way they listen, SIM cards, letters, purses, lampjures, mouse, computer mouse, paintings on the wall, lamps, chandeliers, all these are tools for listening. Well, this wiretap is so common, isn't it so common that this Parliament can't take precautions? By God, if you watch what's sold in this market, if you follow it, you'll know who's buying, who's selling, who's doing, and who's doing it. It's very simple, it's not difficult, I mean, if these tools are sold, impressions, control. Now, they say that the world's largest global ear is in the NSA. I mean, this Echelon is the largest telephone in the world. There was a novel called Digital Castle, where it was told how to watch. It is said that all the electronic communications of the world are being monitored, recorded, so phone, SMS, mail, all of this is being recorded. Of course, the NSA (National Security Agency), alongside the FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation), the CIA and the system conflicts begin. So in China, Germany, France, you know, let's not use Microsoft products of America -- at some point, Blackberry phones in parliament. And since he didn't touch us, we looked at it the first year we got here, and Blackberry was distributed in Congress, and it was joked about... and this time, it was like the use of the Linux operating system. So how much has the way of listening and watching changed recently? Let's not go too far, I'll give you a few examples since the cold war. You know this 1972 Watergate scandal, where listening to it in the United States was mostly monitored and bugged by the entire Middle East with the station established in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in 1974. Again, it is referred to as the Signet network of the NASA, where all the diplomats in Turkey have been heard. We have a lot of radar, a lot of NATO bases in this country. Patriots are here, too, and Patriots are connected to this kind of recording listening system. Let's just say listening costs $5 billion in surveillance. Julian Assange, founder of the spy system Wikileaks, said we were all being watched. Yes, everyone is resting, but not everyone rests recklessly like in Turkey. Especially in judgment, justice, and reckless rest, and so many punishments, my friends. This House has some very important things to do, and we hope for the best in the name of the group. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0022par0865	Thank you. Faruk Bal, MP for the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0023par0868	Mr. President, I stand before you to present the views of the National Movement Party on the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on the matter expressed as a virus in the privacy and freedom of communication. I salute the grand jury. Honourable MPs, human beings are created as creatures. In the creation of man, honor and dignity come from the physique. Honor and dignity have been donated only to man for other creatures. There are two areas in the law where honor and dignity are interested, where honor is concerned, where private life, in other words, privacy of privacy of privacy, freedom of communication, the secrecy of freedom of communication with another expression. Throughout its history, humanity has struggled to preserve its two values, the dignity and dignity given to it from its creation. After all, the protection of privacy and freedom of communication is reflected in universal values. On the other hand, as in the constitution of all countries, these two concepts have been tried to preserve, as in our Constitution, and the penal code and the penal code have been issued provisions concerning this. Finally, the seating of all basic rights and freedoms on human dignity in new constitutional studies has been taken from such a perspective as the basic value accepted by the four political parties in the Compromise Commission. What's so important is that the privacy of private life and freedom of communication, which has been reflected in such universal values, reflected in the constitutions, in our legislation, and in the honor and dignity of man, has unfortunately reached a point where the 25-30-dollar appliances sold on the streets have been lost. Then, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it must be discussed in full with the adoption of the motion given by four parties in order to find a solution. As the Nationalist Action Party, we recommend two fundamental points of research on the axis of the protection of privacy and freedom of communication: one of them, using public power and public resources, is the development of measures for violating people's privacy and the freedom of communication -- by abusing their powers -- to investigate, to investigate, and the detection of illegal listening by means of gangs created; one of them is the development of measures for violating the value of two fundamental human beings. My dear friends, the matter is grave. I'd like to share with you two of the two things that I consider important to express my commitment: one of them is that in a survey on privacy and violation of freedom of communication, 71.6% of our citizens believe that their own phone is being tapped, such a perception. That means that 71 percent of our people who use private telephones in Turkey of 75 million people are in such a state of anxiety, and that concern is very grave. On the other hand, I'd like to share with you the cry of a columnist. This fellow columnist cries out in the corner, saying: "You or you dear friends, my readers, those I don't know, those I don't know, bureaucrats, politicians, athletes, celebrities, celebrities, women, men, elders, small ones, weak ones, all of you are resting." The deaf ear, who listens to it, who listens to it when it's like a blind bullet, who doesn't know where it's going to come from. We only know what's in the press, we don't know what's not. Special individuals listened, people who had a disinterested private conflict, they listened to each other, artists listened, athletes listened, of course I won't mention their names. Within the trial, the Istanbul Attorney General was heard. Who played it? At his disposal, the prosecutor, who served on his behalf, played his attorney general. The Ankara Attorney General has been heard. Who played it? At his disposal, the prosecutor who served on his behalf played it. The courthouse plant has been heard, the Supreme Court has been heard, the Supreme Court has been heard, the Supreme Court members have been heard, the Chief Prosecutor has been heard, the judges have been heard, the prosecutors have been heard. These are what are said to be heard within the legal listening framework, but they are a negative example of the informality of the legal arrangement, an example of our history of law. My dear friends, the Minister just told me, the arrangements have been made and so on. Here's one of those regulations -- the law, that offends human dignity, the freedom of communication, the destruction of the individual's private space, the regulations of the Justice and Development Party. One was the giving of authority to the Investigation Board to allow judges to be heard. Regarding this, one of the more than 12,000 judges and prosecutors in Turkey can't say I'm not listening. Everyone is convinced that they're listening. With this fear, with this pressure, with this anxiety, with this concern, how will this judge distribute rights? What if you get a tape in front of you after you've been heard, and you get a tape in front of you? What if he's exposed to a slander campaign that could be spread on the Internet by the minute, as our Minister put it, in connection with the case he's going to be looking at the next day? So, here we are, my dear friends, getting to the point where salt smells like listening judgment, hearing judgment, criminal judgment within this scope, judgment that will punish the guilty. That's the way it is. My dear friends, apart from that, the mayors have been heard, especially the mayors of the opposition. I've said that a few times. I'll say it again. People are listening to you. In an investigation into our mayor, the mayor gets a call from a listening office, saying: "You and this important person have the same last name, do you have any relation?" Mr. President says, "No, you don't know anything." He's in custody on the day he says no. If it existed, the audience wouldn't have done what they were listening to because it was a relative of that person. Thus, Turkey is in such a state. Civil society organisations are being listened to, associations are being listened to, foundations are being listened to, unions are being listened to. It's all over everyone's head. The press are resting, my dear friends. Chiefs of Staff are being heard at their most private meetings. Mr. Light Runaner, Mr. Ilker Basbug and the ranking of the rank, I presume, are all that remains. There's no one without listening. Oslo talks are being bugged. Talks about being understood by the PKK by 95% are spreading to the public. Political parties are being listened to, technically monitored. CHP is being listened to, and the Justice and Development Party amongst other listening parties has never considered the possibility of when the turn, the shameless ear will come to it, but it's not my turn. The Prime Minister's house is being bugged, the Prime Minister's office is being bugged. There's no work done until then. Until then, look what happens. A low and unregistered trap is being set against the National Movement Party in violation of technical surveillance and privacy confidentiality, violation of communications freedom. Mr. Prime Minister is turning this trap into a voter, what's private, general. He also talks rough. In the technical follow-up against CHP, the issue is reduced to a very simplistic issue within the polling framework, and I don't want to pronounce it, but I have to say -- the prime minister's statement -- is reduced to the issue of flight. My dear friends, the minister, in charge of this work, gives advice when the hearing complaints, says: "If you haven't committed a crime, don't be afraid to be heard, there's nothing to be afraid of. If it's that simple, there's no need to talk here, there's no need for the Justice and Development Party to give this motion. My dear friends, what's been done? Nothing has been done that needs to be done. For example, the traitorous trap against the National Movement Party was posted on the website. It's obvious who put this on the air. It was published by Ibrahim Faruk Bayın, a member of the County General Assembly of the Justice and Development Party. He paid for the website, the credit card he paid for, the number he talked to on the Internet, the phone he was talking to, two years ago, no perpetrator. Who's gonna find the perpetrator? The AKP, which is politically responsible, the government, is finished. According to the Constitution, law enforcement will carry out the investigation of crimes committed. Of course, the prosecutor has control, but law enforcement doesn't move his arm like a paralytic patient if there's a brake in political will. But when the time comes, it works very hard. The example was an incident that touched AKP's Zulfüyü, a very simple one. In the name of a minister, a fake e-mail was sent to the OSYM -- remember -- in the name of a minister, as a torpedo for the deployment of a student. Because of the forgery, the AKP's forces immediately moved, and within 12 hours, it became clear who this person was, even though he had committed this fraud under false name and false identity, had been found in Istanbul, and had been brought all the way to Ankara. So there's a difference here, there's a double standard here. For he that toucheth me, let him live a thousand. But this unsound ear is worse than a serpent. He never looks down on anyone, nor does he pity the AKP. It's their turn. Let's see what else comes from the rest of the Prime Minister's office, the rest of his home, the rest of his institutions, his institutions, his rooms, the rest of his quarters. My dear friends, now, the measure is being taken. How's he taking precautions? The Prime Minister has taken every precaution to prevent his rest. All the guards in the prime minister's office have been replaced, officers sent to different locations, the entire staff has been renovated. E, the Prime Minister may no longer be heard because of these measures. What measures will be taken for the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, who are sure that 71.6% of them have been heard? What measures will be taken to relieve this anxiety if I am concerned that I am being listened to by the judgment tasked with preventing listening? And in an important meeting like Oslo, what measures will be taken against a wiretap gang that has infiltrated them in ways that could have arisen? What measures will be taken against the gang that have been so influential to hear the Chief of Staff, which is the greatest force the state of the Republic of Turkey can use in the hini war? Dear friends, there is protection in the land of Zulfu, and there is no protection in the land of Zulfu. So with this research commission in parliament, we wish that in an openness that can answer these questions, in a framework that can answer these questions, we can solve this bleeding wound, together with common sense, which has become the most serious problem in the context of fundamental rights and freedoms of democracy, especially parliamentary democracy. My dear friends, there is another dimension to the matter. It is not only an attack on people's privacy, it is a violation of their freedom of communication; it also presents the possibility of being used as a threat and a means of blackmail to the entire population. More than likely, from what we've seen in life, from what we've seen in the press, we've also seen threats and blackmail go through life. The competition between the technical tools of the very low body and the two companies sold for 15-20 lira on the streets has reached a point where one company could be destroyed by threats and blackmail and another company's significant gain, even though it does not deserve it. This has also become a means of blackmail to any bureaucrat who performs state duties, our ambassadors representing Turkey outside our country, our governors representing the state, our law enforcement, our judge, our prosecutor, anyone who makes the state a state and uses public authority, and the fact that this blackmail can't be used effectively means that public power can't be used. It has also become a threat and a means of blackmail that prevents citizens from suppressing, silenced, and using their basic rights and freedoms in the empire of fear. Finally, my dear friends, this has become a very serious and grave consequence that shows how far foreign intelligence organizations can infiltrate in terms of the country's survival. There's a saying, there's a series. Now, someone's watching us. It's over, everybody's watching everyone, everybody's looking at everything. We've come to a point like this. In order for all of these to be evaluated, examined, and to maintain a life based on the dignity and dignity of the human rights and freedom of every citizen, such a research commission is needed to ensure the freedom of privacy and communication of his private life in a complete and absolute sense. We wish that this commission, not to speak of it, but to fill the bag. In fact, I salute all of you by doing a study based on the seriousness and the oasis of the matter, that the High Assembly can take the necessary measures, that it can make legal arrangements, that it can solve this serious problem with a common mind.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit01spe0024par0890	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit02spe0024par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked number four between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Slovakia. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 35 rows. Mehmet Candy is the one who asked to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit02spe0025par0007	No.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit02spe0024par0008	There's no further demands. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TURKEY REPUBLIC AND SLOVAKIA REPUBLIC TO THE CONTACT AND PROTECTION OF REFERENCE TO THE CONTACT OF THE RELATIONSHIP TO THE CONTACT OF THE RELATIONSHIP MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 13, 2009 in Ankara. The agreement on the Reciprocity and Protection of Investments between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Slovakia was approved. Namik Havutça who wants to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit02spe0026par0018	No.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit02spe0024par0019	There's no further demands. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) 35 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0024par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. An open vote of all of the 35 rows of the Bill of Law was not enough for the meeting. Now the open vote of the entire bill will be held again. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Council of Ministers, it is clear that Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments Between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Slovakia is Approved as a result of an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 210 [[x]] Mine Lök White Tanju Özcan That way, there's enough for a meeting, the bill's legalized. We will begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 395 rows. Alim Izım, Kütahya MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the whole bill.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0027par0019	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the generality of Law Bill 395, which is in session. On this occasion, I salute you all. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 395 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The bill includes provisions for the merger of Fatih University, founded in 1996 with the University of Turgut Özal, which was founded in 2009, and provisions for the establishment of a new university under the name Ankara University of Social Sciences. We support the formation of a new university as the National Movement Party Group. But there's not much to be said for the merger of the two foundation universities and the fact that such a decision has been made by two foundations in accordance with the developing conditions and conditions of today. Although the decision of the two unplanned universities today may seem wrong, as planned, I would like to point out that in today's terms, we have no objection. Unfortunately, however, what the General Directorate of the Foundation has expressed in this regard is not part of the bill. I think it would be wise for the Minister to make a statement on this matter, if necessary, to inform the High Council. Of course, the name of the university is consistent with some of the schools for social sciences. However, there is also a separate debate about how realistic these new universities are before the problems of the universities of social sciences and the universities of both state and foundation are resolved today. Indeed, when we discuss several of the most important issues in a series of problems involving universities today, it is inevitable that new universities now need to develop graduates who can respond to the needs and conditions of the world, instead of teaching with some ordinary universities and departments. In many universities today, serious problems are at the beginning of the problem of the last few years when the quotas have not been filled. First, Turkey will find a solution to this problem and ensure more efficient and efficient use of existing country resources. On the other hand, colleges have staff problems. For example, hundreds of thousands of people, maybe thousands of us, young researchers, who have finished their Ph.D., who are waiting to become assistant professors, are merely looking at a phrase that will appear between the president's two lips. In particular, when the election times are near, the rectors at work will or will not the assistant professor of my staff vote for me or my administration? With that kind of concern, they can seriously intervene in the rights of the researchers. Similarly, we live in Turkey, where many professors who have received the title of professor, who have completed their exams, who have all kinds of qualifications are not assigned to the professor's staff today. Again, the rectors are seriously stingy and selective about the deployment of these positions. Adeta, the professor will come and wait for days at the chancellor's door, beg, and receive this right to a position. Similarly, many professors who have reached the stage of professorship, with a five-year waiting period, cannot be appointed professorship staff in many universities today for their arbitrary attitudes and political distinctions, even though their term is one year, two years, and three years. Thus, it is important that a university in this country, regardless of the world's view, considers every citizen of this country with the same degree of proximity or distance and behaves accordingly, but unfortunately, it is also a key issue in Turkey's reality that recently appoints a number of benchmarks that seriously undermine the scientific autonomy at universities. Therefore, it is inevitable that the principle that these issues should be taken into consideration and that everyone should be given their equal, entitled title and right of identity on time will now be placed in both the foundation and the state universities. It's one of the most important issues, and perhaps most importantly, it's the job problem of the young people we graduated from college. Of course, it is important to open new universities in a country where about 25 per cent of our college graduates today -- one out of every four -- are unemployed, but it is not the solution. As long as we can't properly evaluate our existing resources, and we can't find a job to support our graduates, the number of new universities doesn't make much sense. On this occasion, of course, I believe the statement the Prime Minister made to a teacher candidate who submitted his request for an appointment at Gaziantep at the weekend should be returned from this bench. It is not in this country's best interest for Mr. Prime Minister to offend people in that square in a manner that would not make his request for the position he deserves, even in the name of his wife or relative. I'd like him to take some ground from the Kafdağs, pay more attention to the facts of Turkey, on behalf of the candidates for teachers, and on behalf of all the graduates who've graduated from college, I'd like to ask him to take this stand. On this occasion, I wish you all the best of the universities that have been established, and I give you all the best respect that the new universities that will be established in the coming years will now be brought to this Parliament's agenda after a real planning study.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0028par0033	Thank you. Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0029par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the High School Institutions Act and the Law on Amendments in the Law of the Law and the Law of the Institutions of Higher Education. Mr. President, valued MPs, we support the opening of a new university under the name of social sciences in Ankara as the Republican People's Party. However, we believe that the number of 147 staff members reserved for the number of administrative staff is not enough, as this number should be determined at least 1,000, because the university system cannot be established, even if it is set up. As the Republican People's Party, we believe that flexibility, harmony, and response are necessary in today's world of higher education that can respond. Sometimes we shouldn't look at the world and try to reinvent America, but sometimes we have to overcome what the world, especially the developed countries, has imposed on us. Higher education and universities should also be evaluated in this context. The only type of university model in Turkey cannot vary according to global, regional and local requirements. Applying the Western model or models creates uncertainty for Turkey in terms of competitiveness. In addition to meeting the needs of the young population, which is growing in the process of establishing new universities in Turkey and seeking to get university education, good lawmakers must also consider their contribution to the development of the newly established universities. As a result, colleges must be founded to eliminate intergalactic inequality. In the cities where they are founded, universities are making significant impacts on the socioeconomic life of the city, revitalizing the city, and accelerating the urbanization process. While modern education is available at both the degree and the grad school level, modern universities of today need to study and participate in the transformation of their results into commercial applications within the framework of programmes developed by the country's overall economic policies. In addition to producing new information today, modern university should become a business institution that raises knowledgeable people in the brain of the information economy. The authority to decide what to investigate in this business is no longer in our present day, but in the savings of universities alone. Colleges must strive to integrate with society with all its elements and serve it directly through research development events. This will not interfere with the actual scientific functions of universities. After all, in this modern approach, universities will become the institutions that make the most important contribution to society's driving power and its development. An institute of higher education, which claims a regional university in Anatolia, should be able to promote local and regional values. In this context, universities are expected to focus on their specific and specialized subjects. The number of colleges that have been growing in recent years has not been able to close this gap. It's not enough to give colleges a cut of the budget. It is vital to Turkey that the universities be immediately restored to financial autonomy with the bagage budget. Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you now about the law proposal that we, the Republican People's Party, presented a year and a half ago and that we never met on the commission, that some of our provinces and counties have established thematic universities. Unfortunately, in politics, right is not important, it's important who tells the truth. When we look at the ECHR page, we have a total of 188 universities, including 103 states, 65 foundations, 7 foundation universities of applied sciences, 13 other universities of higher education, including those in Cyprus. Increased university numbers can be written in the House of Success, but the real success can also be achieved by increasing quality while increasing the number. Over 80 universities have opened in Turkey in the last ten years. The real problem is the capacity of power, which says it's focused on its 2023 target. In higher education, horizontal growth is dazzling, but at this rate 50 more universities can be opened. However, there are serious weaknesses in the study function of the depths and universities. Instead of being thematic when universities are established, the easiest is to be preferred, which is to have an institute of higher education in every province, but in reality, the university can't be, unfortunately. We proposed the establishment of 41 thematic universities in 30 provinces. We believe it is necessary for Turkey, but because we tell the truth, we face the obstacle of power. I want our people to know that it's the Republican People's Party that wants to start a new university, so I'm making this statement. The thematic universities with the law proposals will provide both social and economic contributions to our country's various municipalities and will meet our country's need for higher education and create a labour force source. Thematic universities, which are thought to be established in our provinces and boroughs, are as follows: The province of Afyonkarahisar has made significant improvements as a result of both investments in the health sector and health policies. For the continuity of this development, the university of health sciences in Afyonkarahisar will be a sound decision. Again, the establishment of a university under the name of the University of Health Sciences in the province of Bursa will provide the needs of health staff, particularly the doctor in our country. The University of Health Sciences of İzmir Bergama will also be integrated into the development of intensive thermal activity and spa tourism in the region and the mission of Bergama (from ancient times to modern times). A university of health sciences to be established in Bergama will combine this mission with practice. Ankara Beypazari has been trying to implement tourism-based projects in recent years. It has a structure that is compatible with parts intended for alternative types of tourism. This structure will contribute to our country's tourism with the establishment of a tourist university for Ankara Beypazarı. An agricultural university in our slap province will easily turn the university into one of the advanced agricultural universities in the future because of the developed agricultural opportunities of the province. Ankara Kızılcahamam has a suitable nature for sports activities. The proximity to Ankara is the relative advantage of the district. In addition to increasing the recognition of the region, the university of sports sciences will also contribute substantially to its development. A design university in Bursa Ingegöl will further brand the pros of being a town in both the furniture and textile industry across Turkey. The University of Natural Sciences in Isparta Eğirdir, Turkey's orchard, will help create infrastructure for soil-related production technologies to increase the value of addition in the district, and will increase production, prosperity and social activity in this area. The university of social sciences, which will be established in Isparta Yalvaç, will provide a center of attraction to social sciences in the region -- the collection that Yalvac has brought from history. The presence of both military and civilian airports in Eskişehir reveals the necessity of having high-speed trains, a structure of land and railway transport, the establishment of a transport university in our city. The University of Information Technology in Kopeli, which is located in the technology and RD corridor, can assess the developed city structure of İzmir at the University of Laws, where Ankara's bureaucratic structure will be provided with the University of Ankara's legal sciences. The university of entrepreneurship and technology in Denizli will also enable the management of the sense of entrepreneurship that locals have, and that entrepreneurial potential will take action. The university of tourism, which will be established in İzmir, will also provide a huge advantage for implementation by combining the historical traces of the beautiful Izmir (Izmir)'s past and the sea-integrated way of life with the province's advanced transport, education and health care. The university of marines, which will be established in Mersin and Sinop, will make us a powerful land in the Mediterranean and in the Black Sea. In Zonguldak, the university of earth sciences will ensure better assessment of the region's underground wealth. In this way, scientific research and related practices can be done to prevent mining disasters in the region. The University of Fine Arts in Tekirdağ will be able to express the multicultural structure of the district through the arts. The agricultural and animal-based economic structure owned by the Van (Van) led industrial development in the province to the food industry path. An educational institution that will be an expert in the field with the university of natural sciences will undoubtedly play an important role in the development of the region. A university of tourism in the centre, the establishment of Fine Arts universities in Bodrum, will help boost the national tourism policy, which will contribute to tourism both in the region and in the country. In Gaziantep, the university of entrepreneurial and technology will open the way for the best assessment of the Indian properties of the province. Aviation universities in Kayseri, Erzurum, Malatya, and Kütahya will provide the basis for our country's aviation culture, providing the growth of qualified elements needed by our aviation sector. The university of tourism and agriculture, which will be established in Antalya, will make our province the center of attraction in the Mediterranean, and the controlled economic power that tourism and agriculture will create will make our country the one and the greatest force in the Mediterranean. The establishment of the Sumerian university of entrepreneurial and technology, the university of Sumerian entrepreneurial and technology in Aydın Nazilli, will be considered between the two provinces of Nazilli (Nazili) where the initiatives such as Denizli and Aydın are high, and the proximity to the port of İzmir (Izmir) will be assessed. The establishment of the University of Milet Social Sciences and Natural Sciences in Aydın Söke will be assessed as the rich vegetation of the Fivefinger Mountains and the improved agricultural diversity of the appropriate climate conditions in the region, and its involvement in tourism will also create an opportunity for natural research and tourism. Also, the founder of philosophy, Thales the Millet, will be re-remembered by this university. The founding of the University of Tourism in Aydın Kuşadadı will increase the tourism potential and will make the development of potential very important. The university of agriculture and industry will prevent us from asking Patriot from the Netherlands, which is equivalent to its area. The agricultural university in Adana will also turn cotton into a product exported from an imported product that will contribute to both the public and the country's economy -- the fertile plains. In Yalova, the university of natural sciences will assess the development of adornment plant production and beekeeping, creating a natural environment for R&amp;D activities. The University of Economics and Industry, which will be established in Manisa Turgutlu, will ensure the city's proximity to a metropole such as Izmir, is very close to the transport network, and is able to use its economy to raise qualified employees in economic and business areas. The University of Health Sciences, which will be established in Edirne, will allow the development and advanced work of the province that provides health services to the Balkans and Thrace. Finally, the establishment of a university of natural sciences in Sakarya Gayve will make Geyve important, not only in the growing of agricultural products, but also in the production and analysis of information and technological input needed for the development of these products. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have announced that the government will remove the ECHR in the Emergency Action Plan. Unfortunately, in the course of the past period, the NGO has chosen to remove the autonomy and independence of universities, much less remove it. The SEC bill, created, is proof of these ideas. Although the government has expressed its adherence to the customs and customs of the country in its every move, in its every expression, the draft of the SEC law states that the situation is not quite as they say it is. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to give you two examples: First, the draft law on the RCC allows private universities to be built by companies with profit and become a degree factory. Secondly, the way foreign universities open schools in our country is open. Dear lawmakers, cooperating with a foreign university is one thing, a foreign university operating in our country is another. Unfortunately, colleges seem to be a culture nest, forgotten. As a republical project, universities collect national state consciousness and young people from different parts of Anatolian geography in a basket and create common intelligence for Turkey. The country's economic development is also reflected in cultural development, and a total breakthrough as a country is being made. The new SEC law drafts the power of our country in this way from the hands of our people to the imperial countries. A university torn from the essence of the people of Asia Minor, its soil, its air, its water, will bring more damage to our country than benefit. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the biggest obstacle to our universities, the NGO must be removed immediately, and autonomous and free universities must be implemented. The future of our Republic is universities, and the future of universities is free and autonomous universities. When I end my words, I salute and salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0030par0080	Thank you. There's no further demands. No questions. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm a high-school teacher, and I'm gonna need some help with the law, and I'm gonna need you to get out of here, okay? The decision is made by the government of the law. MADDE 1-28/3/1983, followed by Article 116 of Article 2809, the second joke of Article 116 of Higher Education Institutions Act (C) was added, and the existing dams were identified accordingly. From Ankara Health Institute, which was created by changing its name and connection while serving as president of Fatih University, e) From Physics Treatment and Rehab University, whose name and connection was changed while being President of Fatih University, F) From the Nursing School, which was created by changing its name and connection to the presidency when it belonged to the President of the Fatih University, G) From Ankara University of applied sciences where its name and connection were changed while it was incumbent on the presidency of Fatih University, đ) From the Health Sciences University School of applied sciences, whose name and connection were changed while under the presidency of Fatih University," he said. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Birgül Ayman Güler, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're talking about a bill that makes two fundamental changes to the organisation of higher education institutions -- one of the amendments between Fatih University and Turgut Özal University, and one of which is a new university of social sciences in Ankara under the name of Ankara's University of Social Sciences, two laws on the establishment of a public university. Dear lawmakers, while this is an arrangement that brings considerable weight to the public budget, the legislative body has to decide in light of regulatory analysis, but regulatory impact analysis is not behind this bill, as is the case with other legislation. There's no way to give an opinion on how much burden you're going to bring into the budget. On the other hand, there is no numerical explanation for whether we need a public university within public universities and another public university in social sciences. The university of social sciences, which was planned to be opened in Ankara, was envisioned to consist of five universities and five institutions. One of the universities envisioned to be established is the faculty of social and humanities, the second is the faculty of political information, the third is the faculty of foreign languages, the fourth is the faculty of religious sciences, the fifth is the law school. While there is Ankara University Faculty of Political Sciences, where I work as Mensubu, where I am honored to be a student, Ankara University Faculty of Law, Ankara University Faculty of Language History and Geography, Ankara University Faculty of Diharyat, it is not possible to find the statement of the establishment of faculty in the same areas in Ankara, nor in the words of government officials. Here, unfortunately, I can only speak of three doubts that I can raise to your high council as a question. I must say these things under the roof of this great House, whether I'm right in the coming term or wrong, we can all do the accounting. First of all, we have neither the regulatory effect analysis nor the report. So, is this new university considered to open new offices for some of the state elders who have served as MPs three semesters in a row? (CHP turns) That's the question I have in mind. If the vice president or vice president of this university is appointed from the state elders who have failed three semesters in a row, I'll be right, and if not, my guess will be wrong. Secondly, I'm a member of Ankara University, and these five faculty, which are paired with the top five very important schools of Ankara University, are soon able to bring us a new proposal, whether or not the bill or the law can bring us a proposal: we have a university ofmatic social sciences, and we have a university of science at Ankara University, the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Medicine, the Faculty of Medicine, and the Siyasal, theology, the others. Why would this work when there's a theme power? Isn't it better to put together language, History and Geography, Law School, Faculty of Political Sciences, this history, which has reached 150 years, within the University of Social Sciences in Ankara, where we established it? Can such an offer of law or bill appear on the same floor of the House? If he does, I'll be right, and if he doesn't, I'll have the wrong vision. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have a third question for you.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0032par0107	You're getting a little paranoid.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0108	No, I'm asking questions, and I'm ready to answer for it.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0033par0109	You can't call a highly respected member paranoid.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0034par0110	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0111	Paranoia does not involve this mental balance. So, the analogy isn't right. Third, five schools have been established, and four of them are the faculty of sciences, one of which is the faculty of scholars. I, as a scientist, know the world of science, and I know my place. There are people in this Parliament who know the science world very well. But I've studied it a little bit, science and science are not the same thing. We're starting a faculty of religious sciences here, and I won't say the general faith of the AKP, but I usually read from authors who are pro-AKP or AKP. I know that's what they think. It is said that knowledge is fundamental, it is a means of science. It is said that knowledge is about both abstract and concrete beings, whereas science is only about physical beings.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0035par0113	Knowledge is knowing for yourself.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0114	Knowledge is light, it is of its own, but science is light, it is reflective.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0036par0115	And then there's your wisdom, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0116	▪ Knowledge is mind, feeling, transplant; science is based on intelligence, stock and research. After all, science and science are together, but only if it's a guiding knowledge. Now, I'm looking at the scientific method of this newly founded university. Let us put it this way: He will make four things a science, and he will make one. If so, if science is in front of science, if it's deeper, the faculty of religious sciences will lead all four other schools of science to follow. Well, how's he gonna make it happen? It says here that in the first two years of this university, students will pass from these five schools through a common program from the five universities of this university.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0037par0118	Yeah, that's right, your friend offered it to me...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0119	My dear friends, then may I say this? If there is such a hierarchy between science and science, in your opinion, it will force all other sciences to rethink, not to some sort of university, under the leadership of the Faculty of Religious Sciences at Ankara University of Soysal Sciences.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0038par0120	That's beyond paranoia.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0121	If we keep in mind this model, which I base on the relationship between science and science, yes, yes, could such a future be waiting for us?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0039par0122	It's so bad!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0031par0123	Let's all live long, let's all live, let's see, I hope, I'm wrong about these three things; I hope, what you're doing is really focused on the purpose of increasing the modern manpower of Turkey. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0040par0126	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The following article has been added to Article 2-2809. EK MADDE 148-In Ankara, a new university was founded under the name Ankara University of Social Sciences. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the Faculty of Social and Humanities, B) From the Faculty of Political Information, C) From the Faculty of Foreign Languages, From the Faculty of Religious Sciences, d) From law school, e) From the Institute of Social Sciences, F) From the Institute for East and African Studies, G) From the Institute for Turkish World Studies, From the Institute for Western World Studies, H) From the Institute of Islamic Studies, It's happening." On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aytuğ Atıcı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all. Now, Article 2 says: I add the following article to Law 2809: Ankara University of Social Sciences. We set up such a university. Good luck with that. Now, I don't think anyone has anything to object to the establishment of this university. Why are you building this university? Let's look at it now. What are your real goals in building this university, and do you think that your real goals are consistent with setting up this university? I'm looking at what the AKP is doing, what it's like to be in charge. I can sum it up in one word: totalitarian. In a sense of government like this, it's not the idea of the authorities to start a university or anything. It's about setting up a madrasa that you just described as paranoia, or even as a paranoia, by a friend of mine from here. Yes, you are. Here, have a laugh. I'm telling my laughing friends to go to www.mersin.gov.tr.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0042par0151	What's in there?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0152	If the governor of Mersin has not removed his writing, he gives good news that he will build a madrasa for Mersin, the governor of our state. Good luck with that. A governor...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0043par0153	Don't do it. Don't do it.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0154	Don't let me do it!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0044par0155	Open it up, open it up!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0043par0156	At least don't do it. I mean, we know you as a doctor, and we respect you, so don't do it.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0157	Congressman, if I didn't see that article with my own eyes and read it, I wouldn't get up and say it here. Before I came here, I looked to confirm it again, and I saw that this article had been removed after my criticism at Mersin. It's in the archives. It's in my notes. I made this statement in Mersin, in various media organs, and when I was asked by the press, we opened it together; mersin. Gov. You look in the archive of the tr. Ask the governor, and he will tell you the truth.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0045par0158	What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0159	Now, the question you're asking is, what's wrong with you? It already shows what you want to do. We want to set up a madrasa. Say, let's talk about it here. We want to start a university. I leave it to my people to say, "Look at the governor of the state" and say, "Look, we're building a madrasa in Mersin."
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0046par0160	Yes, this university is founded in Ankara, not Mersin.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0047par0161	Aytug Bey, there's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0162	Now, yes, I checked it before I got here, and I saw it being removed.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0047par0163	We're expecting more serious work!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0164	Congressman, I've never spoken without information.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0048par0165	I wish you'd print it out.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0166	There's printouts, there's Governor's, there's printouts, there's press talks.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0049par0167	We expect different things from you!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0168	Dear friends, I know what I'm talking about here, and I know the weight of what I'm saying. And I know that some of you don't even know about it, and I know that some of you would be very happy about it. Go out and ask me and tell me: "No, there has never been such a declaration. I promise you, I will go out of here and apologize in front of all of you, but if there is such a thing, if you have the guts, if you are sincere, you will come out here and apologize to me, if you are sincere, and if you are not sincere, then we will speak. Now, in another dimension, why are you building these universities? I asked a question, this was the first one. Why, why are you actually building these universities?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0050par0170	Terrorists grow up in colleges!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0171	Do colleges talk? Did you shut the colleges down or not? One MP says that terrorists are growing from colleges. Get another university, increase the number of terrorists! Now, in colleges...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0051par0174	The Medrases don't have terrorists!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0175	Of course, they can't hear you, so I'll put them on the record. Terrorists grow in colleges, terrorists don't grow in madrases, says the congressman. Here you go. Here you go. That's the kind of mentality you have.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0052par0177	Congressman, please... let's not interfere with the court.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0178	We're not angry anymore because we know what you do, what you hide and what your real goals are, and we're telling you from here. If there's one misinformation we say, you're gonna tell me, and I'm gonna come out, and I'm gonna apologize. I pledge it to you. If you're a boy, you'll go out and apologize when I prove it.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0053par0179	We're going to build a madrasa. Is that what it says? Don't, don't.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0180	Now, why are you building universities? Don't, brother!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0054par0181	Okay!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0182	When I look at the professors inside, in prison, my heart aches when I look at the students in prison. You have the mind of all students who study at the university and want to be involved in Turkey's departure, who think Turkey is not well-run -- not just in ODTÜ, but everywhere -- to gather one and throw it in. In this country, you have a mind that defies this trend, says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why are you starting a university? For God's sake, don't. Don't set up, don't lock up more scientists, or more students. You're starting a college, why are you building a college? Are our universities autonomous? Will it help you, college? The steep university, the real university, leads politics. Look, I'm not saying it gives direction to the AKP, and I'm not saying it leads to the CHP. A real university can lead politics, but in order to do that, the university needs to be steep, university presidents, university professors, not in fear of being banished.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0055par0184	Is there?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0185	But unfortunately, you're locking up everyone who talks. So don't start these universities. What's the big deal if you already did? You're going to send in the staff that will run these universities. You've already mixed politics with this science in Turkey. The recession that we've come in ten years, the point that we've come in ten years, probably has reached a point that we can't recover in 50 years.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0055par0186	Hodja, you're being so unfair!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0056par0187	Do you know ALES?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0188	Yes, Mr. Özdağ?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0056par0189	Do you know ALES, do you know the transcript, do you know the TIP?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0057par0190	Mr. Özdağ, please, please...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0191	Mr. Özdağ, what you said...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0057par0192	Mr. Horseman, please address the General Assembly, do not talk to each other.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0041par0193	I'm a living and suffering professor who grows up in all of it. You're trying to stall us with words like that, and no one's buying it. There's only one thing people are looking at: is it happy or is it free to produce science? No, he can't. I came straight from the academy, straight from the university. Teachers don't even want to go to class. You know why? Because with the performance system that you've brought in, the faculty have become practically competing with each other to look at patients or to produce projects in other schools. It's nice to build a project...
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0058par0194	How nice... But producing this project is wrong if it's just a tool for the faculty to earn bread.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0059par0196	First they're in bed and now they're working.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0060par0197	It's a shame to say they've already gone to bed. From here, I announce to all Turkey what you say, that the students were lying before, that they are not sleeping now. This is not a word that suits a human being. You have faculty among you. Were you in bed, dear teacher? Who was lying down, which professor was lying down?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0058par0198	Everyone knows everything.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0060par0199	It's a shame what you're doing.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0061par0200	Is it rude to ask them to work?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0060par0201	I'm here to report you to all the professors in Turkey. No professor in Turkey was sleeping with him, Congressman. From here you lay down your character, saying to these professors, accusing, and laughing in a dirty way. Shame on you! If that's what you're saying, if you feel so bad about the professors who worked so hard at the point where science came from in Turkey, I have nothing to say to you, damn it!
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0062par0203	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The following temporary clause is added to Law 2809. "The Institute of Medical School and Health Sciences, Ankara Health Institute, Physics Treatment and Rehab High School, Nursery School, Ankara University and Health Sciences University where they are currently studying at the University of applied sciences and professors of these higher education institutions are transferred to the University of Turgut Özal. Graduation certificates and diplomas for students who are still studying at these higher education institutions, including students who registered in 2012-2013, are granted by the university's name of the university in which they are previously based. All rights and powers that the University of Fatih has won under Law 4142 and other regulations dated 5/6/1996." I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The second (e) and (f)bents of Article 36 (e) of Law 4 - 2809 have been removed from effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Covenant No. 5 - 10/12/2003, added to the Public Financial Management and Control Law (II), dated 5/12/2003, is included in the following section of the "High School Board, Universitys and Institutes of Technology." "106) Ankara University of Social Sciences" Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0063par0216	Mr. President, we're discussing our esteemed MPs, the Law of the Office of Higher Education Institutions, and the Bill of the Law on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. It is important that the laws related to national education and the NGO come with understanding and consensus. Education must be done right, man-made manpower must be planned with accuracy. What does the commission report say? In the commission report, the following matters have been highlighted in a very accurate way: There are doubts as to what the criteria are set when deciding to open university. Although the quotas at universities already established cannot be filled, it is not appropriate to submit a bill for the establishment of new universities. Our commission says so, and it is in the report. ▪ It would be more appropriate to fill the quotas of universities that have been opened in the first place. • The Commission says that the members of the commission are here. In fact, social sciences are seen to be the key parts of areas that do not have quotas in the existing universities. Our Commission says so. If social sciences are to be opened in front of such a painting, it is appropriate to do so on the basis of serious preparation and planning. The commission has received the order, and this is all it says. When setting up university, faculty or departments are opened, it is necessary to consider the need for a faculty member. The teacher will also be prevented from raising the professor if the units are opened without considering the need. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the opening of the university to be committed to a serious plan and to have the needs taken care of. I sincerely congratulate the Commission and Mr. President. Indeed, we are opening a new university, the University of Social Sciences. Where do we open? In Ankara. How much is needed for the opening of a new university in major cities? There is a visa in Istanbul by our Prime Minister himself. Ankara is taking on too much weight to carry, which will become even heavier with the participation of thousands of new university students. Small centers bleed out as large centers go under the burden they can't carry. We don't have the right. The University of Çanrı has prepared some very important projects. Especially with herbal-qualified treatments, she creates solutions to prevent cancer, in her work, but she doesn't have funds. Batman University can't develop. Hakkari University adverts, can't find qualified candidates, faculty members are to be raised or there are no applications. Bayburt University is facing a lot of problems. Dorm problems are always waiting for solutions, solutions are being postponed. In this case, Ankara has a new university. We have proud universities in Ankara. Ankara University has entered the world's first 500 universities four times, ODTÜ has entered four times, Hacettepe has entered Gazi three times each, Bilkent has entered two times. Is there no university in Ankara? There's politics, there's law, there's language history, there's theology, there's science literature, there's son. Why is Ankara chosen for a new university? Country universities have numerous infrastructure problems, development grants are inadequate and unstable. Despite all these problems, where is the land of the University of Social Sciences in Ankara? What buildings will this university be built in? Who's the name of the social and humanities faculty? There's also a faculty like that, a faculty of social and humanities. [[From the lines of the AK PARTY, the men... the voices... the voices...]] Sir? Is it human? I've read the cradle, haven't I? I read it on purpose, you guys, and you'll know it when the day comes. Dear friends, if this university is to be founded, it shouldn't be rushed. Our country really needs thematic universities; in its place, according to its geographical environment, according to its development potential, according to its qualifications, but there is no need for the university of social sciences in Ankara. If some of thematic universities are established where it is proposed, such as our former chancellor, Metin Lütfi Baydar, would have consequences for our country and our nation. In that sense, randomly, one's desire is wrong to have a university based on desire. Which post is preparing for which friend? It's a full order of college. Getting some pelts ready for some friends. This House has no right. This Parliament is not a parliament that distributes to the nation, it is not in any way, it is not in any form, it is not in any way, it is in any way, it is in any form, it is in any order for the individual. My dear friends, our deputies, the Ministry of National Education is making some decisions. It is determination to persevere in what is right in these decisions, but it is stubborn to persist in what is wrong. One of these mistakes is the application of free clothes in the primary and secondary institutions. I meet a lot of people, I see them complaining. Because of my old profession, Mr. Governor, my child is in difficulty with the children of other wealthy families. As parents, we are oppressed as parents. Every day, there's a brand, children of families who can wear a dress every day -- let's just say God gives more -- but the problems of families whose financial situation is not enough -- can't be solved by social aid and solidarity. Besides, we can't shake the sense of belonging to schools. Each student should be proud of his own school, bragging about his uniform or school clothes, the clothes set by the school's parents. Mr. Minister, please, this free-suit app must be waived, our lawmakers must force the Ministry to do so, listen to the voice of the people. No one, our people, has asked you to. It's a arbitrary imposition, which must be abandoned, just as it should be stopped from snoring, from excusing the teacher. Besides, there won't be a science high school in less than 500,000 places. There's college everywhere, no science school. What kind of logic is that, guys? I mean, where there's 30,000 people, where there's 50,000, can't there be a gifted child, an intelligent child? Shouldn't that be encouraged? In that regard, this decision is one of the wrong ones. I wish you all the best, all the best, to those who attempt the right approaches.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0064par0234	Thank you. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0065par0236	The Transport Minister is here, I'd like to ask him a question. Actually, I've asked that question a few times before.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0064par0237	Mr. Akar, you will ask Mr. Arinc the question. He doesn't live in the government.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0065par0238	Okay, I'm asking the Minister of Transport. I'm asking him, he's taking my word for it. Mr. President, please, do not interfere. I've asked you about the detour before, Mr. Secretary, you haven't made the 9km road in three years. AKP MP Fikri Ik has left, it will be opened on October 29. He has taken pictures of it in length. Today, there, another citizen died. You've only been able to open a two-mile stretch of road in one lane. Gee, I'm surprised. Today, we're bidding on a new airport, we're making double roads. You're saying, you haven't made the 9km road in three years. I'm really curious why you can't do it; it's one. Two: Again, we have 34 ports in the city. One of them was a star-integrated factory, which you privatized -- you sentenced the farmer to imported fertilizer, where it became a port, bringing logs to its factories, two factories. Now the glue factory -- on the edge of the bay -- makes the area unregistered, makes a huge port, but it's unregistered, the factory's unlicensed, and the port's unlicensed. I wonder when you're going to call them "stop." Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0066par0243	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0067par0245	Thank you very much. Of course, it has nothing to do with the bill we're discussing, but it's a very important matter. If you'll excuse me, our Minister of Transport will answer this question in writing.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0066par0247	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The following article has been added to the Court of Law on the Attendings of Higher Education Institutions No. 78, dated 6-2/9/1983. "EK MADDE 17-In addition to being used at Ankara University of Social Sciences (1), the academics' staffs on the list were added as part of the Ankara Social Sciences University of Ankara chapter on which the decision was made under the Law." I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 7-13/12/1983 and the following clause has been added to the Constitutional Court of General Staff No. 190. "EK MADDE 15-In addition to being used at Ankara University of Social Sciences (2) has been added as part of Ankara's Social Sciences University of Turkey's Charter to the rules of the Law." There's a motion on matter that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the list number (2), which is added to Article 199 and under Article 190 of the Common Law Bill 395. Mahir Ünal Recep Special Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman love Bak Yilmaz junç Ali Özgündüz Kurt: ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE SERBEST TUTULATION TOPLAM GlH Secretary-General 111 GiH Secretary General 122 GlH Strategy Development 111 GDP Construction and Technical 111 GlH Staff Office 11 1 GlH Information Agency 11 1 GİH Law Counsel 11 1 SERBEST TUTULATION TOPLAM GDP Student Affairs Office 11 GDP Health, Culture and Sports 11 GlH Library and 11 GİH Administration and Financial Affairs 11 1 GlH Faculty Secretary 15 5 GlH Institute Secretary 3-5-5 GİH Branch Manager 1718 GDP Director 2 5 1 6 GDP Director 3 5 1 6 GlH Chief 4 7 1 8 GlH Chief 5 7 1 8 GlH Chief 6 718 GlH programmer 5-2 GlH programmer 6-2 GlH Resolvator 5-2 GlH Defence Expert 3 1 1 GlH Civil Defense Specialist 311 GlH Computer Management 5 8 8 GlH Computer Management 6 7 7 GlH Computer Management 710 GlH Secretary 915 GlH Driver 7-2 GlH Driver 8 3 GlH Driver 9 10 GDP Officer 8 8 8 G.I.H. Officer 9 7 7 GDP Officer 1010 GYH VHKI 7-5 SERBEST TUTULATION TOPLAM GDP VHKI 8-5 GDP VHKI 9-5 GDP Financial Services Expert 3-2 GDP Financial Services Expert 5-3-3 TH Librarian 5-3 TH Librarian 6-3 TH Librarian 7-3 TH Engineer 4-3 TH Engineer 5-3 TH Engineer 6 4 4 TH Architect 5 1 1 TH Tech 6 5 5 TH Technical 7 5 5 TH Technique 8-5 TH Technician 8-5 TH Tech 9-5 TH Technician 10-5 SH Medical Examiner 4-2 SH Medical 5-5 SH Dental Medicine 5 1 1 SH Dieter 5-2 Sister SH 5 1 1 Sister SH 6 1 1 Sister SH 7 1 1 SH Psychologist 611 SH Social Worker 611 AH Attorney 5 3 3 AH Attorney 8 3 3 YH Janitor 910 YH Janitor 10 10 YH Boiler 10 7 YH Cook 10 3 3 Kurt: ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE SERBEST TUTULATION TOPLAM GlH Manager 11 1 GiH Computer Manager 6-5 G.I.H. Officer 8-5 Does the commission agree with the motion? We appreciate the positive view. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0068par0370	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-22sit03spe0066par0371	I'm reading the reason: The prerequisite for the complete functioning of universities is that the administrative body is made up of sufficient staff. The lack of the proposal is intended. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 8- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 9-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes, those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been adopted and legalized. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (January 23rd 2013) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (January 23rd 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
