tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary survey motion that I shall read in the third place is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be included in the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Investigation on the basis of Article 98 of our Constitution, Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter, in order to address and resolve these problems, and to investigate the sufferings of the petty officers, one of the main and most important elements of the Turkish Armed Forces and command system. 1) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] [[Elizipt]] 6) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Yozgat]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kütahya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Paddles]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Lug]] There are over 95,000 regular petty officers and over 100,000 retired petty officers. Petty Officers have been waiting patiently for years to resolve their condensed problems. Members of the Turkish Armed Forces are being given some compensations to address their economic woes. The shortage of military service, which is already a difficult profession, is diminishing slightly. Petty Officers from the Turkish Armed Forces reported to the Prime Minister with official writing and documents that their salaries were reduced by 45 per cent when they retired. Retired officers, however, continue to receive this compensation when the authorities are receiving compensation for representation, duty and unemployment. Petty Officers' salaries are down by 45 per cent, since all the compensations they receive after retirement have been cut off. When officers retire, their salaries are cut by 5 per cent and they have no problems because they receive as much compensation as the pensions of retired petty officers. Fifty per cent of retired petty officers are struggling to live by moonlighting, 20 per cent by trading. On the other hand, there is a salary difference of about $400 between those who have retired from the state office in the first and second degree. Very few of our petty officers can retire from the 1st degree. Public officials who have received two years of higher education can retire from the 1st degree in the fourth degree, while a petty officer can retire from the 3rd degree, even after finishing an upper secondary school. The problems of security officers, an important element of our country, must be investigated and taken into account the necessary measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, Article 98 of the Constitution, in order to determine and address the consequences of these problems and solutions, under Articles 104 and 105, as part of Article 657 and as part of the Law 4/C. 1) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 2) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Elizipt]] 4) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] [[Lug]] [[Yozgat]] [[Slap]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kütahya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] [[Ankara]] The 4/A, 4/B, 4/C, are staffed, contracted, temporary staffed by Articles 4/57 in public; Law 4924 is employed at various positions, such as the scope of Code 399. Thus, it reveals a multi-headed and complex job structure in the public. There are public servants within the same institution who do the same work but whose legal legislation is different because their salaries, pension rights, job guarantees, social and autonomy rights are different. In accordance with Article 4 (B) Article 4 of the State Officers' Code (B) and Article 4 (B) which was published in 27954/2011, under the Officials' Officials' Law on 4/6/6/2011, contracts had been put into office with the State Officials' Code, but had been employed under contract employees, 4/B working under the project at universities, employees of the Meat and Fish Association, employees of the Marine Corps, employees of the Ministry of State Officers, NGOs, employees of the TEM, and staff of the NGOs, but had been left on staffed by the Court of Public Law, staff and staff of the NGOs, teachers, staff of the NGOs, and teachers, staff of the NGOs, and teachers of the NGOs, but had been employed under the project. Apart from those who have been in this status, over 8,500 employees of 4/C are currently accounted for by both union rights and the institution where they work, their benefits have been eliminated, their social rights have been taken away. Ten months in a fiscal year and two months out. Even so, their annual salary decreases. The most limited portion of public employees are no doubt temporary staff employed under Article 4/C of Law 657. The employee's salary is also extremely low, while they are not entitled to annual leave of absence, job security, and social welfare. In addition, special decisions and the working hours of 4/C (C) employees serving in some institutions are different. According to this, 4/C staff at the TBM are working 11 months and 29 days a year, 11 months and 21 days in TÜİK, 4/C (as part of the privatisation process) 4/C) people work 11 months a year and can't get paid for a month. Therefore, in order to meet the expectations of inequality, justice and rights, the relevant Council of Ministers' decision must cover all public officials employed at 4/C status, the current agreements must be changed in this framework and the interim staff's working term will be increased to 12 months. Health insurance must also be placed on a basis and the disease permits must be rearranged. The problems of tens of thousands of staff temporarily employed under Article 4/C of Law 657 must be investigated and taken into account the necessary measures. Now that I've passed the original 500 words of the motion I'm going to read, I'm going to read the summary: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to ensure the equality of opportunities in education and teaching, which are defined as the Increased Opportunity and Technology Movement, and to improve the technology in schools, we respect the adoption of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Interior and the Parliamentary research on how to affect the ability to read and write, due to the radioactive effects of excessive Internet use and security, in order to determine the reasons for the preferences of tablet computers that are much higher than laptops. [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sakarya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] (x) (10/686) The original Parliamentary Research Investigation is included in the full text of the Charter. [[Yozgat]] [[Elizipt]] [[Samsun]] [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Kastamon]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] MEB, for example, has launched a study to ensure the equality of opportunities in education and teaching, defined as the Project for Increased Opportunities and Technology Movement, and to provide more effective use of courses in learning-education of IT technologies and more sensory organs during the learning-study process; laptop computers, LCD panels and Internet infrastructure for 620,000 classrooms of schools in pre-school, elementary school and secondary school. The FATHIH Project is run by the MEB and is supported by the Ministry of Transport. The project is scheduled to be completed in five years. In the first year, secondary schools are intended for secondary school, second level in the second year, and third year for the first level of elementary school and pre-school institutions to complete IT technologies hardware and software infrastructure, e-integrated need, updating teacher guide books, online education for teachers, and conscious, safe, manageable BT and Internet use. The FATIH Project and information and communication technologies are the main tools of the educational process, aimed at effective use of these technologies by students and teachers. Another component of the project is that Internet services will be presented in a safe and uninterrupted manner in every school and every classroom. More importantly, they will have the opportunity to receive these online services at home and in other defined areas. However, there is no research on the pedagogic value and contribution of the technology to be used. The FATHIH Project plans to distribute 16 million tablets in four years to primary education and high school students. The project is $7.5 billion. The $7.5 billion budget is intended to be provided from the Universal Service Fund established by the Transport Ministry. • How this project will affect the ability to read and write in education and teaching, so that its ability to read in the new system will walk on visual and mobile ground, and in time it will weaken its ability to read, only visually will come forward, so that the ability to read and write will not actually improve enough. • stressing that the use of children's Internet and mobile phones in particular should be restricted by units such as the World Health Organization, the International Electromagnetic Security Commission, and that the use of 3G or Wi-Fi devices in schools in many countries around the world is blocked, and how to provide an infrastructure for 15 million students in Turkey in the FATIH Project is not only technical, but primarily for health and safety. • Whether intensive use of technology in schools will cause students to improve in learning levels or worsen, • What the economic cost of 16 million tablet computers will be, as highlighted in the project, will it be possible to produce in Turkey? • With this project, the printing press, paper, bookstore, publishing market, hundreds of thousands of tradesmen, and how their family will be affected, • What measures can be taken against students being exposed to radioactive effects, especially through satellite service in rural schools, while whether our children will be exposed to some radioactive effects through satellites, while providing fiber cables to every class in the cities. • considering social media networks, how to control the use of this network for non-education purposes while the social media network, which is commonly referred to as the EBA, is introduced as a platform for students and teachers to communicate and interact with each other in the educational sector. • Whether the Universal Service Fund established within the Ministry of Transport has the opportunity to meet the budget for this project, and whether it is appropriate for its purpose, • a hidden cost in the use of millions of tablets and the maintenance and maintenance costs to create problems that can't be solved, and how to overcome their problems, • Why is the tablet computer, which is estimated to be free for students and costs about 1,600 euros, preferred instead of the laptop computer, which is down to 300 euros? issues such as these need to be investigated. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. We wish success to Istanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Ma'am, who has been elected vice president of the EC PARTY. [[Applause]] Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0002par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. And I congratulate Mr. Mihrimah Belma, who was elected to chair of the group. I also congratulate Mr. Gardencaplı, who has been elected to acting Speaker of Parliament, and those who have been elected to other Court memberships. Former group vice presidents continue their duties, and I sincerely wish them success. Mr. President, lawmakers, tomorrow is July 2nd, the 20th anniversary of the Sivas Madimak massacre, a painful day in which 35 of our intellectuals were brutally murdered. I bow before his memories with respect. I see this as an attempt against our secular republic, and I condemn those who do, those who interfere. My respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0003par0186	Thank you. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Monday 1/7/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir, who is part of the agenda of the Grand National Assembly's agenda (10/213) and his friends (10/213) in the section of the General Assembly's Review and Parliament's Review of Assembly, has been proposed on Monday (April 10, 2012) to hold talks with Elazig MP Enver Erdem and his friends on 10 April 2012, with 4283 points and the president of TBM, in order to determine the issues of the personnel assigned to the specialisation of 4/C staff, with which they should be investigated and to investigate the issues of those in the 4/C. Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP who wants to speak in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0004par0203	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Parliament's research proposal, which we've made in the interest of investigating the problems that are going on with the 4/C/C/Persons and contracted personnel, the recruitment of all contract staff working in the public, and a permanent solution to their problems. I hereby salute your high council. Deputies of the state shall be carried out by civil servants and other public servants, which the state and other public officials are obliged to conduct, under Article 128, and Article 657 of the Law of State Officers. Contracted personnel are essentially a form of employment that has been appointed by the Council of Ministers to be temporarily employed by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the State Staff and the Ministry of Finance, as well as by those employed in temporary jobs which require special professional information and expertise required to prepare, implement and implement important projects in development plans, annual programmes and business programmes, and for the exception of working under Article 49 of the City Code. Unfortunately, however, during the AKP's rule, many of the main and permanent services of the state have been conducted by contracting, 4/C"li, temporary staff and subcontractors. Dear lawmakers, contractual personnel do not have the right to state and unauthorized transfers, and there is no chance that they will be able to rise in office. They don't have the rights of wives, child support, maternity aid. The salaries they receive in each province and every institution vary. They have no right to interagency transition. In the same institution, the rights to the staff are different, as well as the rights to the staff who are entitled to the rights of the staff who do the same work. At the same time, there is unrest among staff members expressing the same work in different positions, which disrupts the working peace and reduces the staff's compliance and performance. In public institutions, with the intention of preventing the wrongs born from contracting-level division among people doing the same job and ending the application of contract personnel, the 632th Law issued shortly before the June 12, 2011 elections has been appointed to about 200,000 contract officers, but it has not been taken into the tenured staff of several state-owned institutions and municipalities. Over the past two years, there has been no reduction in contract personnel, but it has risen to 200,000 levels again. Due to AKP's wrong practices in personnel policy, 1,600,000 subcontractors today are obliged to work as a poor people without a social guarantee, without a job guarantee, without a proper stomach. The Prime Minister's good news of hiring 96,000 people -- those employed according to Article 49 of the City Code -- and those under contract employees in health -- will not solve the problems of about 100,000 people employed in contract status again. Dear lawmakers, we also see that the AKP is not sincere in this arrangement. If they are sincere, they should also honestly answer these questions: After this arrangement, what will be the situation of the 4/C (C) people, the contract workers at universities, the employees at Youth and Sports Ministry, the contract workers at TRT, the Dianet jobs, the Ministry of Education, and the contract staff at the OSCE? Now, there's been some progress we've been hearing. Of course, we're witnessing changes to the recruitment of some of the ministers or members of our more powerful politicians, some of the contractors, but we're also witnessing that these arrangements are not the ones that solve our country's work peace and eliminate the problem of our people. It is also unclear what will happen to graduates of higher education, engineers, who have been employed in public institutions and institutions as workers. With this arrangement, will you solve the problems of these people who haven't been employed for years? Dear MPs, the Prime Minister's statement will be appointed to ▪66,000 contracts. The point is: First, 100,000 other contracts will not be assigned to the staff, so if you put half of the current number of contract holders, about 200,000, then you will not take the other half of them to the staff again. All segments of working life will remain in the air, as always, under a single status, and so will be continued today, with the purchases of full-fledged personnel, the reassignment of new ones, the Ministry of Labor will continue to work on the matter; this vicious cycle will continue in this way because the AKP government is exploiting this issue as well, and does not want to solve the problem permanently. Second, half of the 4/B are assigned to the staff, while the others are excluded. In this case, there is no regulation regarding the 4/C"s, which will continue to discriminate against the 4/C"s. Third, it is clear that you will not solve the problems of subcontractors even though there are judicial decisions regarding their appointment to the staff. Dear lawmakers, the situation of victims of 4/C is pathetic, but unfortunately, government officials are closing their eyes, pretending it's okay, ignoring the pain, screaming, sorrows, problems in these parts. They should not be condemned to a life without security, without dignity, with a job, with a staff, with a decent salary. We have given the bread to the people who were told by Minister Bekir Bozdağ. • We pay equal wages for the same work as the Minister of Finance has said. With such statements, people should not be humiliated, not be deceived; they should be brought to parliament with urgency to resolve their problems and to take the staff. Dear lawmakers, again 700,000 subcontractors working in the public, with a total of 1,600,000, are facing serious problems, such as lack of job guarantees, low wages, lack of weekly and annual rights, failure to take advantage of collective contract provisions, and the immediate arrangements for resolving their problems must be brought before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. These decisions, which have been decided by courts and approved by the Supreme Court that they are not temporary and work in the General Directorate of the Highways and other public institutions, must be brought before the Parliamentary General Assembly as soon as possible for these workers to be assigned to permanent staff. For God's sake, at least don't make politics about it, this issue has become a serious injury to society. In today's terms, those who receive 800 lira salary, social security, job security, annual leave, union guarantees, collective contract of employment, who have no right to vote for us, should not be indifferent to the wishes of our brothers who send us here to resolve their problems, but should be resolved immediately with the necessary work done. We, the National Movement Party, are here to say that we will support all the arrangements you will bring in this area, and the final statement is: Dear lawmakers, these Travel Park events, etc., you're doing a lot of research on the causes of these things, but since you don't solve the rights of these working parties, I respectfully salute you all to consider the possibility that these things have happened to you as well.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0005par0223	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Ahmet Arslan, Kars MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0006par0226	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise against the group proposal of the National Movement Party. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, we need to know where we're coming from when we're using statements. If we don't know where we're coming from, some things can become meaningless or other meanings. Specially the 4/C/C/E personnel are critical, and our country is always spoken of. We're talking about personnel employed in other institutions under Article 4/C of State Officers Act 657. Who are these people? Employees employed within the framework of the Council of Ministers' decision under the view of the Ministry of State Staff and Finance, and again established by the decision of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Financial and Social Rights, are about 23,000 people working as temporary contracts for less than a year or as seasonal workers. Again, they can be run in TÜİK polls, they can be run during the election season of the Supreme Election Board, they can be run as a living model of the arts faculty. Go to the 1990s. When privatisation practices began in the 1990s, there was no law. In 1994, the implementation of privatisation of a number of businesses, facilities, institutions reached a legal, legal basis, with the adoption of Law 4046. Under this legal basis, the President of the Privatisation Administration performs studies, determines the methods for privatisation of institutions and conducts this process. There's a critical process here. In 1994, officers, under contract or non-containment status were sent to other institutions in need by means of the State Chief of Staff. However, there's a very critical sentence here. There are no regulations regarding the workers. In pre-EC PARTI privatisation apps, if there was a worker, who bought the factory, hired the factory, took over, employed the worker, if he didn't work, he was left out of the door, workers were left out of work. However, in 2002, the EC PARTY began to employ them at 4/C status to solve the problem of these workers in other public institutions and institutions. For how long? He started employing for ten months a year. This was taken to the State Court, then to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court ruled that such an application was in line with the Constitution. After that, during the AK PARTY administrations, workers working at 4/C status were allowed to submit to collective agreements at the table, within the framework of collective agreements. That's a very important difference. While workers are being left at the door during the administrations involved in the OHR, they are employed at 4/C status during the EC PARTY, and the EC PARTY has granted them the right to be part of the collective agreement. He also recognized another thing, including the improvement of his financial rights, which led to 11 months and 28 days, especially for ten months, when Law 657 ruled over temporary workers. Otherwise, if you run it for 12 months, then you can't call it temporary, and it can't be called temporary status. Again, the AK PARTY governments have demonstrated that they are with the workers at 4/B. The 4/B status has existed since the day of State Officers Act 657, and again, in front of the AK PARTI governments, before all other parties, and the AK PARTI mentioned about -- let me give you a number, Mr. Minister -- 196 thousand of them -- in 2011 -- about 4/B. 200,000 people are true, but 200,000 people are not 4/B, friends, and you have to know that very well. About 96 thousand of them -- we've adopted the bill in the Plan and Budget Commission, and it's coming to the General Assembly -- and if the General Assembly approves it, 96 thousand people will already be put on the staff, will receive official status. Other than that, 76,000 people are under contract at KİSK. The conditions of the contracts in the CIT are very, very different from those in 4/B, and they are treated as officers. Again, if the KİT is to be privatized in any way, these contractors who work there are appointed officers to other public institutions and institutions. Therefore, there are no 76,000 people in the 200,000 mentioned, so let's make this clear. There are 4,700 artists. We need to separate these artists, because as far as artists are concerned, they have to have a contract because they can work in private as well as in their professions, otherwise they don't have a chance to work in private. When you remove this 4,700, there are 3,500 institutional contracts that are much more private because of the work of their own institutions. Like the Civil Aviation General Directorate, such as TRT, the General Directorate of Youth and Sports, they need to have expertise, such as TOKI. Their situation is much different. Our Ministry, Labour and Social Security Ministry is also working on 3,500 friends in this status. Again, I know that as a member of the Plan Budget Commission, as a member of the Plan Budget Commission, as a member of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, I know very well that everything we've been asked to do has already been done and done for months and years. In order to give them much more rights in the August public contract talks, in order to improve their rights, I say that our Ministry and our government are already doing, doing, doing, doing, doing. All statistical data shows that the EC PARTY governments are with the employees. I know these things, so in this frame, while I'm already doing these studies, I also think there's no need for a research proposal. In that sense, I say I'm against the motion to investigate, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0007par0234	Thank you. In favor of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0008par0236	He was just here.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0009par0237	Can't he talk in Polish and talk later?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0007par0238	The last speaker, Mr. Altay. Yes, thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: [[CHP's lines have come, they've come, they've come, they've come, they've come, they've come, they've come, they've ……]] But we've moved on to a vote. Those who refuse... are not accepted. Yes, thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since political party groups cannot be assembled at the Council's meeting on Monday 1/7/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Underlaw. A parliamentary inquiry motion issued by İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi and his friends on 22/5/2013 to open files on the massacres of Marash, Çorum and Sivas against our citizens of the Turkish Parliament (927 rows) in order to establish financial damage. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Monday 1/7/2013 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Çelebi, I assume you will exercise your right to remain silent.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0010par0258	We'll use that too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0007par0259	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0010par0260	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we propose this. This proposal is about the investigation into the removal of the statute of limitations in the massacres of Maras, Çorum, and Sivas -- I salute the High Assembly with respect and love. The massacre of Marash and Çorum, 35 intellectuals, democratic artists, artists, progressive souls who have been slaughtered for their thoughts, beliefs, and identity from the events that have created the coup attempt on September 12th, should be acknowledged that there should be no statute of limitations in human crimes targeting religious and cultural massacres, including the Sivas massacre, which will fill its 20th year. It seems impossible for a government to create a new and rewritten democratic constitution that has blocked these truths and Alevi demands. Today, the government is fueling belief and identityism with its practices, while the Prime Minister continues his sectarian approaches in language and style. Enlightenment of these massacres will show us whether we can truly have the sense of peace and justice. Even in the Commission for Research on the Impacts, the Maraş and Çirum events have been dealt with inconspicuously, especially in the cases that have injured the Aleki community and are still traumatised. Turkey was involved in the US's project to create a green belt against the Soviet Union on September 12th, and the state tried to power and neutralize left, socialist, democratic, Alevi, progressive citizens, with the power of its own and the U.S. Today, the AKP is a party that feeds on this generation and its impact conditions, so it still does not change the coup laws, it does not illuminate the massacres, it does not avoid facing the September 12th military coup. For this reason, Çorum is covered over Marash and Sivas. Since you still maintain the mindset of September 12th, you're trying to impose the Sunni faith on the Alevi children by putting in mandatory, elective religious lessons. Here you are, a Democrat only to yourselves, a Muslim, because you cannot protect the rights of those who do not belong to you. Those responsible for the Maraş massacre have either been released without trial or they have been tried and acquitted with case files. Because, while the Maraş massacre was being planned, the most important part of the scenario was that the massacrers were first isolated, then declared innocent by this isolation. A pressure on the Alekis before September 12th was also created; hundreds of people were slaughtered before September 12th because of their identity and their thinking. At the Madimak Hotel in Sivas, artists, intellectuals, citizens, the bright faces of this country, as in Maraş. The arrangement brought by September 12 is a massacre against the ancient understanding of the state, so it is a massacre against other factions. At the same time, the violence that took place in Sivas, a major part in the construction of the Republic, is an event in which those who do not want a secular and democratic republic are organized, methodical and deep relations. In the case already with 131 defendants, the prosecutor and the victim's lawyers claim that the crime was an organised uprising against the secular republic through violence. The Supreme Court has also charged the case with violence against secular constitutional order. In fact, in our research proposal, the reason we've prepared a motion to include the massacres of Maras and Çorum is because, along with September 12th, Turkey's bright future was also seen in the Sivas massacre of fascist and reactionary coups that prevented the creation of an equal, free and democratic Turkey. While the Sivas massacre took place, it still explains why the police did not attempt to disband the people who had committed the massacre for hours, follow them as they did, watch a massacre of the police, which had killed millions of people in the recent and recent Gezi events we have seen. There are still no perpetrators wanted by the red bulletin, and the statute of limitations on the perpetrators who have been captured has increased once again injured the lives, families, and society who have died in Sivas. For this reason, the files of Sivas, Çorum and Marash, which have been time-consumed in violation of universal legal principles, must be reopened, and the state must submit its secrets and archives to public knowledge. In addition, in the 20th year of the massacre, the Madimak Hotel should be held in the museum of shame. These massacres are systematically committed in accordance with a plan against a part of society by the political, philosophical, race, or religion of the following verbs carried out in Article 77 of the Turkish Penal Code, which should be considered a crime against humanity, under the title of crimes against humanity. The same law also rules that there will be no statute of limitations on these crimes. If his killers are exonerated, history won't forget the launderers. 35 lives burned alive in Madimak Hotel must not be forgotten by history, nor by their relatives, friends, lovers... be found and judged by the perpetrators of our people who were killed in this attack, which targeted our citizens, just as they were in Marash. That's the only way social conscience can relax, that's how social peace can be achieved. We have not forgotten or caused Sivas to forget. Mr. President, in accordance with your advice, I'd like to complete my remaining time in the presence of those friends and in the presence of those who have died. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0011par0271	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0010par0272	Once again, I condemn the attackers with hatred. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0011par0275	Mr. Çelebi, you're exhausted. Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, İdris Şahin, Çankırı MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0012par0279	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate in connection with the massacre of Maras and Çorum and the Sivas events of the September 12th military coup. I salute your high council. First of all, for the 35 lives that have died here, I ask for mercy again from His Holiness. I also agree with the idea that prior to September 12th, Maraş and Çorum, which were expressed in the research motion, were the events that prepared the coup process on September 12th and created the conditions of the coup. I'm sure our nation knows who the real victims and perpetrators of the incident are and who they are. In particular, Sivas, Çorum, I believe the claims that the Maraş events have been wasted by not going over them are also known to our nation as to who they are dealing with. In particular, the date on the events of Sivas was July 2, 1993; the ruling Party of the Right Way and the government of the SHP, the government of Tansu Ciller, who had not yet received the vote of confidence, the Ministry of Culture, and the Governor of Sivas Ahmet Karabilgin, who had previously been appointed governor of Mr. Erdal Inöneu as governor of Sivas. The 4th edition of the Pir Sultan Abdal Festival is held three times in the Banaz district of Sivas. However, as of the date of the incident, Sivas is preferred to the center, and it is decided by the governorship. The period of the incident was a period in which Salman Rushdi was published in Turkey by the Devil's Verses, including St. Nesin, and the honorary guest of the Ministry of Culture and the Governor of Sivas. The criminal case of the incident, of course, came to trial, and the verdict was in some form. First, in accordance with Article 450 of the Turkish Penal Code and further provisions for the death of more than one person, then Supreme Court 9. We all know that there have been some convictions for the constitutional and fundamental violation of the state's regulations under the provision of the Department of Corrections. However, over the past 20 years, these decisions and trials have always been discussed, always discussed, and the sides of the issue have discussed, and judges who have made the decision have also argued. In particular, the final decision was made by Ankara No. 1. The DGM president Orhan Black Sea has a statement -- we've compiled that in our Commission's reports -- and in particular, the Supreme Court 9. We had to make such a decision based on the violations of the Criminal Office. He had a conscience that he was also somewhat disturbed by what he said. Now, when we take a look at the events, we need to take a very good look at the background. We know that the events are not a normal, ordinary criminal case, that these provocations are a series of actions, both in the pre-1980s and in the region, aimed at boosting the Alevi-Sunni tension. There was a similar massacre in the Prime Minister's office right after the Sivas incident, where our citizens in the Sunni sector in particular lost their lives. So what's the deal here that we have to deal with? In particular, as stated here, in the research motion, we need to see if we didn't take the necessary steps towards the statute of limitations of the EC PARTY government. I don't think the AK PARTY authorities are fully involved in this, and that's how our entire nation knows it. Because as of the date it took place, the Right Way is in power, and the SHP is in charge of the Republican People's Party, which we know is the source and continuation of this motion, particularly the Republican People's Party. There is no investigation and investigation into the police commissioner and the governor of that day. And when the governor himself arrives, he admits that there are some shortcomings, some negligence of the state. Mr. Süleyman signed the report, so I signed it. We have stated in the Commission for Research on Impacts and Coroners that the state's negligence was so close to Ankara that it was reported by those living in that period. At this point of neglect, I think it's kind of unfair to come to justice at the point where the critic and his government, which came to power after 2002 and they didn't do their part in the process. But, what should we do?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0013par0286	You were his lawyer? You were the lawyer for the Sivas case?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0012par0287	I'm the lawyer of our nation, and I'm here as the public defender.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0013par0289	How many people have you made MPs, how many ministers? How many people have you made, how many ministers in the Sivas case?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0012par0290	I've told you from here what the Sivas case is about and what the judge's judgment on the Sivas case means, but if you don't want to take it, I have nothing to say. Our nation understands and perceives us very well. What I'm going to say here is that you're just saying that the Aleki citizens' rights and rights are not stepping forward in the direction of their democratic rights. Now, you've been doing politics for years in the name of this group, and you've been making demands on them for years. Now, what you're looking at here is the final report on the Flaming Works and the preliminary report, the reports of the Aleki workshops. These are the Alevi workshops, which took place in the period of AK PARTI power, which began in 3-4 June 2009, and the last was the 7th of which we performed on 28-29-30 January 2010. We, here, are in favor of the demands of our citizens of Alevi, that this nation has no difference in any way among 76 million of our people, and that whatever rights and freedoms they have in democratic conditions will be used to the end. And while we're doing these studies, we're doing their rights and their law for research, and we're taking concrete steps to carry out these arrangements with the civil constitution. But I think it's wrong for me to point out who the perpetrators were from here before 1980, who you knew about their instigators, and to present these events as an obstacle to the civil constitution, which is being sincerely tried to bring the incident of July 2, 1993 into power today. All we have to do together is remember that no matter what part of the faith in this country, no matter what ethnicity it is, 76 million is one and together. I believe that all the steps we're going to take are 76 million in peace and prosperity, and the steps we need to take for their freedom. And here, I think that the fact that we've seen the steps taken in the AK PARTI's rule as inadequate, especially to the Alekis, might be to present from this platform what we can do more than that. From this stand, what we must do, whatever steps we take, whatever we please our citizens, and if we talk about them, we will be responding to what our nation expects of us. So here, we think that the fact that we've been vetted, investigated in every way in the past, debated, who are their perpetrators, and that, given the terms of the period, we've accepted that there's a state negligence in every way that we've been given a motion to re-integrated as of today's agenda. Other than that, we, the AK PARTI government, express every time that we are open to any advice on concrete steps that can be taken in behalf of the rights and freedoms of our citizens of Alevi. And the work we've done in this direction is the most important proof for us, and I say ask the work that we've done. I salute you all. I declare myself against the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0014par0299	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0015par0301	Mr. President, the speaker made comments and evaluations that I didn't. In addition, this process was the continuation of the People's Party of the Republic SHP. With its approach, it met with him. That's why I want word from the teaser.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0014par0302	Yeah, I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Let's not get into any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0015par0306	My dear friends, we didn't target a political party here; we wanted this process to be clear, and we wanted this problem to be unsettled, and we didn't want it to be timed; it was committed by the law, against the crime of humanity, that we wanted the House to repair this process. Now, in all these processes, he was in power at that time, sir, there was a governor here. You can't avoid this process with classic sentences like this. Here's the square, here's the challenge! Whoever's behind this process, whoever's involved in these processes and supports those processes, the revelation of those MPs, the investigation of their roles in those processes... That's right, we asked the coup commission to investigate these processes exactly, but demand doesn't solve the problem, it has to be done. This is an opportunity for him to do so today, so he can contribute to stopping this bleeding wound. Otherwise, we won't be able to cover this up with some fiction against each other, accusations against the past. Whatever tracks are in the background of this, whatever people are involved in the process, and if they committed this crime, we expect a sensitivity to human rights crime without a statute of limitations. That's what it's like to be dealt with by blows, that's what it's like to be dealt with by criminals. Once again, I salute all of you with love.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0016par0311	Thank you. Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0017par0317	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Republican People's Party İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi and his friends' motion to investigate the reopening of the files of Çorum, Marash and Sivas massacres, I and our bloc support. These massacres, one of the bloody, dark pages of our history, have not been truly illuminated until now, and the trials have, of course, remained for show. I, first of all, cherish and respect the 35 lives of our citizens who died in all these massacres in Madimak, 2 July 1993. Their values point to the democratic future of our country, and the history of this kind of Turkey, but its wounds, its suffering, are still fresh, and are indispensable to enlightening them, our democratic future, and the struggle for democracy. Of course, these crimes must be revealed in a real sense, and the perpetrators must be judged. In these crimes, of course, the statute of limitations should not be committed, they are crimes against humanity. No matter what happens in violations of the right to life with the state forces behind it, the statute of limitations must not proceed. This is the day before the Sivas massacre. Tomorrow, all over Turkey and, of course, in front of the Madimak Hotel, this massacre will be damned, and it will be walked. Alevis, citizens of Alevi faith, Muslimism and monotheistic mentality in Turkey have been subjected to discrimination, as part of this project, for many years, they have been treated as discrimination, they have been treated as enemies, they have been deceived by public opinion, they have been deceived, they have been deceived, but they have raised their struggle with the tradition of Pir Sultan Abdal, they have been called a secular nation, a democratic society, an equal civil right to stand up for years -- especially at this point -- Alevis have created a break -- the massacre at this point -- where they have come together, they have raised the struggle tradition of Pir Sultan Abdal tradition, as part of the resistance tradition. The AKP's government -- as the Hati said earlier -- has made openings and workshops, but these openings and workshops were actually done once again with a sense of public opinion that citizens of the Aleki faith were insulted, that politicians had been booed from the Alevi faith, or were thrown into the tu, as you know in the last instance, on the third bridge. In reality, solving a problem, providing an equality of faith, not acting in a manner that respects religion, conscience, freedom of worship, freedom of freedom; rather, there was also a policy that was directed here to exploit religion and beliefs, and what was the end of it? What will be behind this statement today of the Prime Minister's desire for democracy, re-emergence of the Aleki package, or of taking over the problems of Alevi? It has once again been expressed as a very primitive approach, such as to evaluate the Cemevs as a branch of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, to bind them, to control the government, and therefore to take control of Alevi's grandfathers, if they need it, to tie them to their salary. Dear friends, let us not forget that in Sivas, before and before the coup, the forces who wanted to continue their ruling policies against each other in Chorum, Marash, the forces who wanted to continue the reigning regime of monogamy, denial, oppression, staged these massacres. For once, we have to remember that and be vigilant and cautious about it. Thus, it is possible for Turkey to face such conspiracies, counter-attacks, and mass extinctions at all times, unless the facts are revealed, unless the facts are revealed, unless the facts are revealed. The only thing to do against all of this is, of course, the democratic struggle, the democratic public movement, and the constitutional amendment, which will pave the way for all of this, is to make democratic arrangements immediately. This is what the democratic public movement, which began during June with the Resistance of the Travel Park, which then spread throughout the country, actually came to be the point of its demand. I mean, the respect, respect, respect, respect for the values of life, city life, faith, right to work, freedom of the body, all of its accumulated rights, freedom and democratic will. But what has power done against it? Instead of learning from this and learning from our history and even from those past mass-crusts, he has once again embraced a lie, and is once again wrapped up in black propaganda, and after a month of this great awakening, great warning actions, even after this process, the last of which, a public protesting the construction of the outpost in Diyarbakir lice has been opened, and some have been shot in the back, and a citizen named Medeni Yıldırım has lost his life by the fire. And here he's wrapped up in a lie, and it's said that there's another conspiracy behind it. See, the drug networks are setting this up, provoking the public, things like that. But if the democratic, peace-based resolution will be his will in this country, it's clear what the public is saying. For years, Kurdish people, Kurdish citizens, equal rights, freedoms, education in their native language, democratic autonomy, constitutional identity and recognition, and a number of articles that have been unfairly held in prison, especially because of their political views, including the fact that they fought democratically, and that the solution, peace, democratization, has been explained in this country, a road map has been drawn, a dialogue and negotiations with the state, but this dialogue and the debate are not telling what to do on behalf of the state, not what to do, but what to do with the state. Then, can peace come like this? Can peace come with new outposts and new dams? Peace, is it possible not to see the demands of equal citizenship of citizens of Alevi faith, but to exploit it and spread it through time, spread the process? Or have these trials been made at the time, it is not appropriate to reopen these files. Can Turkey really walk into a democratic future, peace, brotherhood, and a future based on equal rights? After that, it is said that hope has been cut off from this constitution or that these constitutional studies have been cut off, sabotaged. What is being done in this new constitution? Yes, if there is a regulation in accordance with these principles, then by the Ministry of Religious Affairs, we will restrict the faith here, bind the freedom of conscience, and hold only one sect as a state organisation, and not see the screams of millions of Alevi citizens and the will to be dealt with in these massacres. Is this how secularism is going to be, the democratic constitution? Again, just as there was still no consistent response to democratic demands that emerged during the Gezi Park resistance process... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a manhunt, a witch hunt. There's no democratic future with these. It's a date that needs to be illuminated... not just under the House Commission today, but under the government's siege, but through an independent commission, all these massacres in history must be illuminated and brought to account by the people who are responsible, including, of course, the latest crime of humanity committed in the race. We want all of this to be investigated. The CHP Group proposal is also appropriate and should be established as a parliamentary research commission. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0018par0329	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0019par0331	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who have died in the events of Çorum, Maraş, and Sivas, and to their relatives. In fact, what happened in Sorum, Sivas, and Maras? That's the whole point. The coupters already have two instruments: the first is to terrorize the streets and commit unsolved murders on the road to creating the impact floor. And in that sense, between our, in fact, culturally and sociologically rich Kurdish citizens and Turks, again, our cultural wealth, our Alevi citizens, our religious wealth, and our Sunni citizens, there is an instinct to cause tensions, and to have power from here somehow, by terrorizing the streets. However, if the government holds the authority that it has taken from the people, if it takes possession of the trust, and considers it sacred and stands upright in the face of all threats, based on the rule of law, democracy, of course, they won't be able to bring these things to success. As a result, in our time -- in the time of the AC PARTI governments -- these provocations have been tried to be carried out, but the AK PARTI governments have, in fact, considered the authority and trust that they have received from the nation sacred and stood upright; in the framework of democracy and law, they have never succumbed to these sanctions, these threats. Thus, such events did not occur and the impact did not occur. When the impact didn't occur, you know, there was a September 12th referendum incident, 26 points. It was an important referendum in the sense of legally drawing a set in front of the coup, which contained significant constitutional changes, but other than the AK PARTY, unfortunately, the opposition parties prevented it, tried to prevent it, but the mighty Turkish nation, our beloved citizens, prevented it with a 58 per cent of the vote.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0020par0336	Stop what, what? What did we stop?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0019par0337	So the AK PARTY has always gone to the nation and sought power from the nation. There's been some talk here about travel events, and I'd like to answer them.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0020par0339	Ramadan, take care of your speech, keep your mouth shut!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0019par0340	Brother Mevlüt, I respect you...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0020par0341	Speak modestly! Who backed up the coup?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0021par0342	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0020par0343	No, Mr. President, who backed up the coup?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0021par0344	You want a promise later, sir, you want a promise. We don't have the proper way to address Mr. Hati. Please...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0022par0345	Mr. President, I didn't say support for the army. The Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party are against the 12 September referendum. You didn't stand up to him? Go out and tell him otherwise.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0023par0348	Shame...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0022par0349	Now, something very important happened in 2002 in Turkey, and the opposition parties are not aware. After the 2002 elections, significant developments and changes began to take place. Those who had privileges before, those who had the most, began to lose their privileges. In fact, those privileges were not from the chest, nor were they based on national will.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0023par0350	You were born from a coup.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0022par0351	They were using this illegal authority on behalf of the nation under a custody regime. They were supposed to own the country, so everything was their monopoly, and that's the way it was, the slip had to go on. But there was one thing they forgot, folks. With the authority he received from the chest, the people brought their own children to work. The EC PARTY, which came to work, held the trust of the nation and stood up to those who wanted to hit it. Irtica comes, secularism goes away. They say, "No." Once upon a time, they called in the army, and it didn't work. They took Republican walks, they didn't. They've exposed the law's aberration, and it hasn't happened. Every time, they ate a copycat. They ate Silleyitocats, but they didn't do a conscience reckoning, saying, "Why are we eating this silleitot? There is no power on the horizon, nor is it possible for them to get out of the chest; the middle path of the regime is blocked, and snow has fallen on the mountains they hoped for. There is no opposition that represents this section, and when the main opposition was in a state of weakness, the group took over the Travel Park, like the Moor, who had found goods on the grounds of the Salvage Park events. But I especially want to say that the people are with the representatives of the nation, from here, there is no bread for you from the Travel Park.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0024par0352	We're talking about Sivas, Sivas. Tell me about Sivas. Tell me about the massacre.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0022par0353	The AK PARTY government never cheated on people, betrayed the trust of the nation, took off with its hat. We accepted the vote from our beloved nation above our heads and tried to represent the people's powers in the best possible way. Therefore, it is not possible for those who are unable to take power to the Travel Park to continue their power by terrorizing the streets.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0025par0354	What do you think of Travel Park?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0022par0355	These people will never allow it, and the representatives of the nation will never allow it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The group proposal of the Republican People's Party... of course, there shouldn't be any Sivas incidents, Kahramanmarash events, Çorum events in any legal state... but as long as there are no opposition parties, no civil initiatives, no NGOs. You're going to provoke, you're going to take things out, you're going to get out of here; something like this, now, people are not going to accept. I hereby declare that we are against the group proposal of the Republican People's Party, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0026par0360	Yes, thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0027par0362	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Orator, he stated that all political parties, except for the AKP -- specifically referring to us -- did not support pre-September 12th referendum proposals to prevent coups -- and when we look at the whole speech, it's as if the AKP is anti-plotic...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0028par0363	That's right, the AK PARTY is anti-plot. The AK PARTY has proven to be anti-inflicted in all its speeches so far.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0027par0364	...all parties except the AKP have also made a speech on the pro-plot. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0029par0365	Here, I promise you two minutes for teasing. We're saying we shouldn't be picking on you again, but you're picking on me.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0027par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party is against anyone and everything who's committed to the non-democratic path for whatever reason.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0030par0371	We saw it in May!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0027par0372	As a matter of fact, we never approved the May 27 coup, the September 12 coup, February 28th, March 12th, but the electronics of April 27, which you never mentioned, which you've always tried to close.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0030par0373	Where did you object?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0027par0374	Mr. Congressman, after the May 27th conflict, there is a letter from Ismet Inönun to President Cemal Gürsel of the era. I suggest you read that letter. The Republican People's Party is literally the only party in Turkey that is the victim of coups.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0030par0375	Wow!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0027par0376	The coups were made to prevent the Republican People's Party's ruling, especially the Republican People's Party, the May 27th conflict. So is the coup d'état of Hakeza on September 12, 1980. But we are against the blows, you, the ones who feed on the blows, grow and flourish and flourish. I'd like to remind you one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0031par0379	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0032par0380	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0031par0381	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0032par0382	Look, while I'm just saying that our friend, the vice president of the group, is a party against the coups...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0033par0383	You tell us every day!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0032par0384	...No, it's not, the AK PARTY is a coup d'état party.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0034par0385	After the attacks, you took advantage of it.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0032par0386	Because of the bullying, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0035par0387	Yes, please. Two minutes of teasing, I promise.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0036par0390	We've started... we've got work to do! We can't go home today!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0037par0392	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, I congratulate Engin Altay, we congratulated the group's deputy president last week, but second, it's also important that the Republican People's Party officials first said that May 27 was a coup.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0038par0394	You're sleeping!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0039par0395	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0037par0396	Congratulations on that, too. (AK PARTY) Because there was always a revolution on May 27th. Look, Mr. Altay, on April 27th, you were an MP, and on Friday, we voted for the first time in the election of President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 358 votes came out to our President. Here -- the vice presidents and some of our fellow MPs -- Mr. Arinc was here from the bench, and Mr. Anadol was here; oh, this is where he said it was. The group took some of the vice presidents out of his arm by dragging some of them out, would it be 367? And -- you remember -- Mr. Baykal said, "Who made up this nonsense about 367? Mr. Sabih made it up, he made it up, and that phony went to the Supreme Court all of a sudden. When this is about April 27th, I'll sign the gold.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0039par0398	No.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0037par0399	...the Vice President of the People's Party of the Republic, who says, "I'll sign the gold." But on May 27th...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0040par0400	Just tell me who it is!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0037par0401	...9 Marta, 12 Marta, 12 September, your leader, your president, like the late Inönu. When did a big boy come out? On April 28th, the government of the AK issued a decree that would say, "Get out of here!" to the person who gave the 27th April e-magnition. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Not with a letter, not with a letter, not by writing a letter, not by saying, "Don't hang this." Not even by saying, "I can't save you!" There was a need for a man of courage and courage to say, and that was Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the government of the EC. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0041par0404	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0042par0405	Mr. President, now, the speaker has implied that our backward presidents applaud and support the blows. That's not true; that's not fair to our presidents. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, it's perfectly natural for me to answer that.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0043par0406	Yeah, she gave him a special car for April 27th, which he agreed to give to her. What is this Mustafa still saying?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0041par0407	Here you go, Mr. Altay. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0044par0410	Now, members of lawmakers, in this parliament, sitting here, in these parliaments, in the present days of the generals, those who don't know, have read the days of the generals, but I couldn't describe the opinion of Mr. Group Vice President's backward presidents from the Republican People's Party, from there. Because all of the presidents of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Ecevit, Mr. Baykal, have been imprisoned after the coups and awards, I want you to know that. Don't forget that Mr. Ecevit has resigned as secretary general by protesting his participation in the government of Nihat Erim and thus put a democratic stance on Turkey. After the 1980 conflict of Mr. Deniz Baykal, remember that he was imprisoned in a military school in Ankara, in Chainbreaker. Knowing these things, Mr. Elitaş, it would be a little disrespectful to accuse the presidents of the Republican People's Party of coupting, knowingly, of being so victimized by the coups, their freedoms restricted, handcuffed to their hands. You are also a politician, and there is no message you can send to your friends here and to Turkey by tampering with the past. The Republican People's Party -- I draw the bottom -- is against all coups, the Republican People's Party has never supported the military's involvement in politics. You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0045par0413	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0046par0414	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0045par0415	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0046par0416	Mr. President, the Deputy Director of the Group took the Nationals newspaper from June 3, 1960, and Mr. Presidents of the United States is the semi-official broadcast body of the daily Nation. Let him have it.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0047par0417	They're talking about 2013. Talk about 2013.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0046par0418	When Mr. Inönu was president of the Republican People's Party, his interview with foreign newspapers was a legitimate revolution.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0047par0419	Will you come to 2013? Talk about your civil coup in Turkey, brother.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0046par0420	Mr. Group, have the Vice President review this matter.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0048par0421	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0049par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0048par0423	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0049par0424	Mr. President, do you believe everything you read in the paper is true?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0050par0425	Oh, well, then...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0049par0426	Half of what's in the papers is a lie.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0050par0427	That's right, it's beautiful.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0049par0428	That's not gonna happen. The Ismet Inönun (Ismet) has no legal declaration of the 27th of May.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0051par0429	There is.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0052par0430	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. Since the tenth Development Plan (2014-2018) was presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we will begin negotiations with Dair Prime Minister's Office and the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which was part of the 1st part of this chapter. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 476 rows. The talks will be held in three sections, according to the proposal of the Council of Education, adopted in the 124th Union of the General Assembly, dated 24/6/2013, and under Article 2 of the Law Against the Legislature of Development Plans 3067, and under Article 2 of the Law on the Protection of Unity. In these talks, the government's presentation speech was thirty minutes, and their time to discuss the chapter is thirty minutes for political party groups, Commission and government; ten minutes for individuals. The time of political party groups can be used by more than one speaker. Two MPs can be made a pledge from members who have asked for a word on behalf of their individuals. The motions for the return of the plan to the government can be submitted to the presidency by the end of the talks on the part of the plan, which will not be accepted after the negotiations on the part of the plan have been completed. Now, to give the presentation speech of the plan, I would like to invite Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, Minister of Development on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0053par0446	Mr. President, I salute all of you, members of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm here to present our Tenth Year's Development Plan. On this occasion, I wish our plan first to our nation, to our country. (x) 476 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Since my time is limited, I won't be able to go into too many details of the plan, but in general, I'll try to sum up the plan for you. Before we begin this summary, I salute everyone who has ever contributed to the development of our country, to our country, to our nation. In particular, I salute those who strive to speed up our country's development with their plans, with their studies, in the past tense. Plan debates have been on our country's agenda for a long time. On this occasion, I would also like to emphasize that there is no plan in free market economies. A approach like this is definitely not right. The market will take care of everything. We can't adopt an understanding like that. On the one hand, of course, the free market will work, but on the other hand, in this legal order, it will come to life along with the regulatory and planner functions of the state. In what we call the most advanced market economies, we all know that planning is actually the most advanced. Market economies are not the economies of turmoil, they are not the economies of chaos; they are the economies that work in the legal order and are seriously shaped by policies and planning. We, too, have brought you the Tenth Development Plan, with more than 50 years of planning experience. Our plan covers 2014-2018, a five-year plan. On the way to 2023, we try to put the first five years of this period on a detailed road map in a ten-year perspective. The goal of our plan is, of course, to stimulate our human potential, our abilities, our development process, and to contribute to our society's high level of prosperity. In the Tenth Development Plan, the economic and social development process of our country has been adopted by the concept of human-focused development, which has been discussed from a holistic, inclusive and multidimensional perspective. In this framework, the plan was designed to include high, stable and inclusive economic growth, as well as elements such as rule of law, knowledge society, international competitiveness, human development, conservation of the environment and sustainable use of resources. When we were planning the plan, we especially cared about participation. We've been working on this plan for almost two years. On this occasion, I would like to give thanks to all those who worked so hard on the plan. Development plans aren't just plans made by our Ministry. In the process, we have formed 66 special residency commissions and working groups; from education to health, energy growth strategies, from population movements to many other areas, academics, NGOs, professions, and participants from various circles contributed to this planning work. I thank them all in your presence. Over 3,000 people have only contributed to our special fellowship commissions and our working groups. Besides, it's the first time we've had a local contribution to this plan, we've had a turnout. Our development agencies have gathered opinions on our development plan from Hakari to Edirne, Samsun to Zagla, from Turkey's 81 provinces. In the process, we received the views of over 7,000 participants, and they added a different color to our planning work. When you collected it, over 10,000 participants contributed to our planning in a two-year process. And, of course, we've assessed the institutional capacity of our Ministry. We have formulated our plan by combining this participation with a lot of work from model work to sectoral analysis. We met with the business world, we met with NGOs, we met with the think tank, we called the think tank. We discussed our plan. We've called our ambassadors from different parts of the world, we've had meetings, consultations, consultations with our undersecretaries, we've worked with young people, we've taken the youth view of the future, and we've formulated our plan using all these different sources. I thank you, again and again, to all those who have supported our plan, contributed, gave us ideas in all these participating processes. In the first part of our plan, we tried to take a closer look at the world's trends, especially the world's trends, because it is not possible to position our country in this process without reading the world's trends, the world's world's progress, without a good assessment of the world's progress. As we were shaping our economic, social policies, environmental policies, all of this, we had a close analysis of the world's developments, and we took that into account in our plan. When you look at it in this frame, we find that the global system is turning into a multipolar structure. Some countries and regions are emerging as new global power centers of the future, while existing regional forces are also being reshaped. The trend for territorialisation and multilateral free trade agreements across the world is spreading. The global-level production axis and center of gravity is shifting from developed Western countries to developing Asian countries. This trend became even more evident after the global crisis. Development countries tend to increase their share in the global economy, while the share of developed countries tends to decline. When we look again, we see that global competition has also changed. Production processes carried out under one operation are now carried out in more than one place. With the help of increasing transport and communication technologies, different stages of the value chain can be positioned from different regions and countries. The importance and value of knowledge is increasing, creating elements of innovation and diversity in the essence of competitiveness. Information-based production remains the key decisive force of economic growth. In the developed countries, the elderly population is increasing and health expenditures are rising, and social security systems are under serious pressure. The opportunities for more intensive use of health technologies, focusing on the production of medicines and medical materials, and developing health tourism are also various areas that come along with this process. For reasons such as labor force, education, inequality, migration is expected to be greater in the world. In addition to the level of education, the quality of the labor force is expected to be a decisive factor in the labor force movement. Again, rapidly increasing population, urbanization, economic activities, diversified consumption habits increase pressure on the environment and natural resources, increasing the importance of food safety and water and natural resources. In this framework, I would like to point out that the approach to sustainable development is much more underlined in the world, much more debated. Finally, we see significant changes in energy, transformations among global trends. I would also like to point out that energy technologies have been transformed in the face of increasing energy demand, that nuclear energy, as well as technologies like rock gas, have begun to grow, that energy efficiency has become much more important in the world, and that the global energy system has been transformed in this sense. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've dealt with the global crisis and then the world very carefully in our planning work, of course. In 2009, the global crisis created the biggest damage since the great depression of the 1930s. At the global level, economic activity has decreased by 0.6 per cent, and we see that the effects remain. The effects of the global crisis, which started in the housing market, which started in the financial markets, where the real economy was hit, the job feller, the social issues that created social issues, on the other hand, the debt of countries that were interfering with the global crisis, and caused financial instability in these countries. On the other hand, the global crisis has brought the world economy and governance of the world to a new debate, and we are considering these new conditions, of course, in our planning. In 2014-2018, we expect the world economy to grow by 4.4 percent in proportion to the global crisis, while we're doing our plan, we're acting on this assumption, but we're seeing that unemployment won't decrease much. In 2012, unemployment rates in the eurozone rose to 12.3. We expect this to go back to 11.1, so we don't expect much improvement in that sense. Mr. President, my fellow members of Congress, when we look at the overall purpose and fiction of the plan, I can safely say that 2023 is the general framework for us, the vision for us. In the 100th year of our Republic, we consider our 2023 vision of moving our country to a higher international position as the main framework in this plan. As you know, when you look at the targets of 2023, an inland product that exceeds 2 trillion dollars, $25,000 per person, we're aiming for $500 billion exports. We expect unemployment to decline by 5 per cent. We predict inflation and interest to be stable in low single digits, and again 2023, with a wide variety of sub-scissional openings, sheds light on this plan as the vision of our entire society. The main goal of the Tenth Development Plan, covering 2014-2018, is to become a country that has risen to the top in the international chain of values hierarchy, where a high income group has entered the countries and solved the problem of absolute poverty. In this context, we built our development plan on four basic axises. This is our first axis and our most important axis, the qualified human and powerful community axis, the first part of our plan to reflect the human-focused approach to human development and human development. Here, of course, it's always our goal to promote prosperity across society, strengthen our human capital, consolidate our social integration. The second basic part of this plan is innovative production, stable growth. And here we aim to deliver our illegal domestic product to 2023, to $1.3 trillion by the time we reach 2018. We aim to increase our per capita income to $16,000 in 2018, and we aim to reduce unemployment by 7.2 per cent last year by 9.2%. We're planning to create around 4 million new jobs, jobs. In this way, our second axis consists of more information, technology, high added value production, industrialization, innovative production and stable growth. The third basic part of our plan consists of habitable spaces and sustainable environments. We have goals here, growing from one side, of the stable distribution of prosperity between regions, the reduction of regional differences, and, on the other hand, a healthier urbanization, more qualified habitats, making our country more secure against disaster risks. The essence of our human - focused plan is actually: We need to raise qualified, equipped people; we need to protect our qualified, equipped people, and not lose them to other countries. On the other hand, we need to create an environment that attracts qualified people from all over the world, people who are equipped. And from the moment you say that, urbanization is extremely important. We believe that when we create cities that can be built from traffic problems to cultural, artistic activities, to environmental issues, to all the elements of urban aesthetics, when we take them further, we will also have a very good advantage in hiring and attracting qualified people. So our third basic axis is these habitable spaces and sustainable environments. The fourth dimension is international cooperation for development. Our country is in a different position in the world with its recent accelerated economic development, social policies, environmental advancements, and above all, its developments in democracy and law, becoming much more active in the world, especially in its region. We anticipate further consolidation of this quality, an exemplary country, an inspiring country, and on the one hand, continuing full membership talks with the European Union, while on the other hand, maintaining our relations with different regional integrations, and developing bilateral relations, especially our neighbouring countries, and sharing Turkey's development experience, development experience. Dear President, we have high-value lawmakers, and a large number of policies and goals on a sectoral basis. It's the only way I'll be able to get some of it out here, so maybe we can open the rest up more in the questions-answer departments with debates. Education, of course, is one of the most basic, top priority issues of this plan. One of the most important elements of a plan called a qualified person, a plan that says it's human-focused is education. Look, in 2002, we gave 9.9 billion Turkish dollars to the entire education system, including higher education, and in 2013, it reached about 63 billion Turkish liras. We've made a lot of improvements here, from the FATH Project to the newly formed universities, to the dorm capacity. Next semester, especially before school. We aim to increase our pre-school education rate from 47 per cent to 70 per cent. In higher education, our gross schooling rate has reached 87 per cent, and we predict to increase it to 94 per cent at the end of the planning period. The other system, including secondary school, is already mandatory, where our natural goal is, of course, 100 percent. In the field of health, again, over the past few years, we have rapidly reduced the rate of infant and mother deaths. The life expectancy of birth has risen. Look at the number of applications per person to a physician, this is very important, it shows accessibility -- the number of applications for a person who was averaged at 3.2 (10 years ago) within a year; this is up to 8.2, more or less in the European Union standards in 2011. Our human being can now receive and receive such services when he pleases. In this period, the number of medical personnel has reached from 378 thousand to 670,000, our inoculation rate has reached 97 percent from 77 per cent, and we want to increase it further in the coming term. Our citizens' health satisfaction has risen from 39.5 per cent to 75 per cent. During the planning period, we envision creating 80,000 new beds, 30,000 additional physicians, and 80,000 additional nurses. The justice system, again, is a very important dimension to this plan. Justice is not only important for democracy, it is important for development. A justice system that works well, works fast, works correctly, increases predictability, reduces uncertainty, is vital in developing an investment environment and attracting more qualified people and qualified capital to our country. We've completed 174 justice buildings in this area, including Istanbul, Europe and the Anatolian Side. We have implemented important information processing projects, such as the NUYAP. We've legalized a lot of basic laws, but of course we still have a lot of ground to cover. In this framework, we envision spreading the protective-preventive legal approach during the planning period, increasing accessibility to the judiciary, developing alternative incompatibility solutions in all branches of the law. We are based on increasing fundamental rights and freedoms in this sense, with a pluralistic and liberal sense of democracy, the free expression of individuals and different parts of society, respect for all beliefs and lifestyles. Freedom is also the key element of development. If you call it an innovative economy, you have to take on a liberal political, social environment. Where there's no freedom, there's no innovation; where there's no freedom of opinion, where there's no freedom of opinion, there's no technology. It's not just about democracy, it's about development. So, in this plan, we make a strong emphasis on democracy in Plan Ten, in the perspective of development of fundamental rights and freedoms. On the other hand, we care about social protection spending. We can't just leave society at the mercy of the market. We have disabled citizens, elderly citizens, narrow-income segments; we have important policies facing them. After the global crisis, many countries reduced their spending, reducing their spending, while we were among those countries that increased these expenditures. Ten years ago, the population, whose total population is 30 percent of our population, whose daily spending is less than $4.30, will be reduced to 2.3 percent in 2013, we estimate. And at the end of the planning period, we expect to bring it closer to zero. Thus, Turkey will now become a country that fights relative poverty, such as the developed countries. Absolute poverty, hopefully, will be completely off our agenda in the coming years. Cultural, artistic activities are part of our plan. On the one hand, we emphasise our cultural wealth, our diversity, and on social integrity and solidarity around common values. Turkey is the country that has reduced unemployment among OECD countries in terms of employment and working life, following the global crisis. In 2007-2012, we created 4.4 million new jobs. In the coming period, we also aim to improve our working life and to increase employment, to create more and more qualified jobs. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we're predicting that our social security system will continue in a sustainable manner. At the end of the planning period, we plan to reduce the budget burden of the social security system by 4 per cent as a share of the illegal domestic product. We're highlighting population dynamics, of course, the population is important. Look, as a Minister of Development, I would like to warn you that all developing countries have a risk. Today, what we call advanced countries have grown old, while developing countries risk aging before they become rich. If you get old after you get rich, you can manage with your wealth, your savings from the past, if you get old before you get rich, that's a big risk. I'd like to stress that as a serious risk to all developing countries. Unfortunately, our total fertility rate is below the rate of regeneration at 2.1, which is 2.08 in 2012. When we do long-term projections, we see that after 2050, our population begins to decline. When we come to the 2075, we predict a population of 88-89 million. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, Such as strategic management in the public, e-government practices in public services, again, the issues we underline in the plan. We want to make our government more of a virtual service. The number of services we are currently serving at the e-state gate is 700, and at the end of the planning period, we predict to increase it to 3,000, and to move the number of users from 15 million to 30 million. Dear MPs, Dear President, we have a rapid growth perspective again in the framework of innovative production, stable growth. In the post-crisis period, Turkey averaged an average of 6.7 per year, if you look at it as the average of the three-year period. This is a very high growth rate, the highest growth rate in OECD countries. And we're predicting that we're going to continue this next semester. Our income for each person, around $3,500 in 2002, has reached $10,500 as of last year, and if you compare with averages per person of the EU, our income for each person, which was 36 per cent of the European Union ten years ago, has reached 53 per cent today. And in the coming period, we're predicting an average of 5.5 growths per year, during the planning period. At the end of the planning period, in 2018, we predict a growth rate of about 5.9 percent. We expect capital and labor, as well as total factor efficiency, to contribute to our growth by 1.1%. At this time, we expect both our growth policies and our active labor force, our other policies, to increase employment by around 4 million. We predict that women, especially women, will go into more labor very quickly, and with an increase of 2.7 points, we expect our participation in the labour force to increase by 53.8 per cent. We're putting a big emphasis on this plan for domestic savings while we're growing up. I'm afraid our domestic savings have been pretty downgraded. It's not a public issue, it's more of a private thing. There has been a serious decline in private savings as public savings rose over the past ten years. We anticipate increasing those savings in the coming period. When we reach the end of the planning period for this day, we aim to increase our savings rate beyond 14 percent, to the 19 percent, and we place detailed policies to do so. We're paying attention, of course, to our balance, and we're going to follow export-enhancing policies. On the other hand, the payments are very important to our balance, and we're making serious emphasis on the use of local resources, the use of renewable energy, and energy efficiency and nuclear energy. Of course, we'll see more of the results of that in the second period. This five-year term is going to be a bit of an investment period. Our investments in coal, our investments in nuclear, are not investments that will result in a year or two like this. We're going to make these investments in this period, and in the second five years, hopefully we'll get the results more clearly. At the end of the term, we predict an inflation of around 4.5% in the early years, around 5% in the early years. In financial markets, we predict new openings, new instruments, especially the Istanbul Financial Centre Project. Our finance policy will continue with discipline, as it has been for the last ten years. We especially reflect the impact of this, of course, as a service to our citizens. In the last decade, the national income rate of our debts has declined from 74 per cent to 36 per cent. See, in 2001, the rate of budget interest costs was up to 93.4 per cent to tax revenues, which declined by 17.4 per cent in 2012. A disciplined budget, a disciplined finance policy, brought down interest rates, created a security environment. And what we've gained from this is that we've reflected in our savings as services to our people, social policies, our employees, and in the future, we're going to give serious attention to finance policies, discipline. Our long-term real interest rate, calculated at the end of 2012, has dropped below 0.23 per cent, even 0.54 per cent, which is the average of countries that are members of the European Coin. Turkey has achieved this success, and we all have to continue this together. We propose to expand the tax base during the plan, increase tax voluntary fitness, reduce the informal economy, reduce transaction taxes from here, increase production and employment. In our investment policies, once again, in the last seven years, we've invested 391 billion Turkish dollars in public investments at fixed prices -- at the price of 2013. We'll continue by increasing our investments in the coming period. In the next five years, we're thinking about 417 billion Turkish dollars in new public investments, not including public-private partnership investments, and we're also going to do them, but on the other hand, we're going to create a suitable investment environment for the private sector, and of course, we're going to continue the dynamic of our actual growth with private sector investments. We'll continue to care about RD. Over the past decade, we've achieved a significant increase in our RD spending in national revenues, and at the end of the next planning period, we aim to increase the rate of RD spending by 1.8 per cent. We're putting a strong emphasis on this plan for manufacturing industry. We aim for our country to make more effort in this area, and here, on the one hand, as we diversify our export markets... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I ask for some additional time, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0054par0504	Mr. Secretary, we can't extend the deadline, thank you. You've already been talking about departments.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0053par0505	I'm just a little unclear about the integrity. At least give me a few minutes to close, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0054par0507	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0053par0508	We didn't complete it, but I'll try to add the loose ends to the rest of the talks. Of course, other than that, we have regional, spatial policies, which I couldn't sum up, so hopefully we'll be able to give you more information when it comes to it. On this occasion, I would like to thank the esteemed deputies who have contributed to the plan, supported it, and contributed to the latest Plan Budget for three days with criticisms, opinions, and so forth. I wish the plan would go back to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit01spe0054par0511	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0054par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 127th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The 10th Development Plan 476 and the Plan and Budget Commission Report will resume our talks where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, we begin negotiations on chapter one. The first chapter consists of economic and social developments in Turkey during the pre-plan period. On behalf of the government, Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz has asked for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0055par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm not actually going to speak in all departments, but I've been promised to finish this speech, so that the opposition and the ruling party will have more time left for our MPs. I'm going to finish my speech in this section so the integrity doesn't break. Innovative production, which I just mentioned, in the sustainable high economic growth department, we also have a distinct emphasis on entrepreneurship and SMEs. In the last decade, 83 organised industrial sites, 99 small industrial sites, 45 technology development areas and three industrial areas have been established. In the coming period, we plan to give more support to small and medium-sized businesses, including business, artistry and co-op. We specifically envision developing their capacity for research, development, innovation and export. Information and communications technology are extremely important. Over the last ten years, our internet subscriptions have increased from 18,000 to over 20 million, and there has been a huge leap. We'll continue this next semester. Communication technologies are one of the key elements of an information-based economic transformation. Agriculture and food issues are, of course, a very, very important part of this plan as well as any plan. During the planning period, we will continue to collect the land in particular. It has now reached 4 million hectares of land collection. At the end of the planning period, we expect to take it up to 8 million hectares. We predict to increase the irrigation field from 2.9 million hectares to 3.8 million hectares, and the total amount of land being planted to 3.7 million hectares from 3 million hectares to 3.7 million hectares. I mentioned a little bit of energy. We're predicting 78,000 megawatts from 58,000 megawatts during the planning period. We're going to develop our energy potential, especially based on local resources. And there will also be major investments in nuclear energy in this period, but most of all -- again, I'm stressing -- the efficient use of energy. The most important thing for both environmentally and our businesses in terms of competitiveness and the reduction of our dependence on energy is to use energy more efficiently. In mining, we'll focus specifically on the search. In this framework, we predict to increase the drilling scale from 1.3 million meters to 3 million meters and to expose our country's mining potential further. When you look at our country's geography, it's clear that we have great logistical advantages. So, we're going to try to develop this in terms of the development of our domestic market and our international connections. Over the past ten years, our split network length has reached 22.253 kilometers. Ankara-Eskişehir, Ankara-Konya and Eskişehir-Konya have been hired to operate high-speed railway lines. We've started various portworks, including the ports of Mersin and Filyos, including the ports of Çangdarlı; some of them have begun to build, some of them are under study projects; these are important. Passenger traffic has reached 131 million airways. As of last year's end, our number of active air squares has risen to 49, and we want to improve that in the coming period. During the time of the plan, especially with this new airport, we predict that Istanbul will become an international transport and care repair centre. We aim to increase our divided road network to 30,000 kilometers and the BSK road network to 40,000 kilometers. Tourism is an important area again. Our number of foreign tourists has increased by around 9 per cent in the past decade, reaching 31.8 million people. Our tourism revenues reached 29.4 billion last year. At the end of the planning period, we aim to increase the number of foreign visitors to 42 million, and the revenue of tourism to 45 billion dollars. Our third title, ▪ Living spaces, we care about regional development under the sustainable environmental axis and regional competitiveness. We've taken very important steps in this framework in the past period; we've established development agencies, we've established regional development management. You know, we've only been in the GAP area, and now we've established regional development administrations for our KOP region, for the Plain of Iconium, for East Anatolia, for the DAP region, and for the East Black Sea, for the DOCAP. We've provided $1.6 billion in financial support through our development agencies alone. We have supported over 8,000 projects, which will continue in the coming period. We've established investment support offices in our 81 provinces, and we're going to try to make these offices more active. In the past five years, we've implemented the Southeast Anatolian Action Plan, where we've spent 14.7 billion dollars on our GAP Action Plan. We're preparing new action plans for the four zones next semester. While the GAP Area Action Plan is renovating our plan, we're planning a new five-year course of action for KOP, for DOCAP, and for DAP, and we aim to implement it, hopefully, in the coming period of this plan. I would also like to point out that sometimes we get a review of why these projects don't end. It's a fair criticism, of course, but on the other hand, we need to think that the process of development is a process that never ends. No matter what goal you reach, you're looking at new goals. In America, in Europe, even in the most developed countries, the process of development never ends, always continues with new goals. That's also true of regional development. You're taking it somewhere, then you have to move it higher with new targets. A project that we've been very important about in the past few years. In 2005-2013, we spent $8.5 billion on rural land. We've made 181,500 kilometers of village road, we've done 20,000 kilometers of road repair, we've given 47,461 units drinking water support. WE will continue to do so in the coming period. CLUE, of course, urbanization and urbanization are of great importance. And again, if you look back at the time of the plan, our total population has increased by 7.1 percent, while our city population has increased by about twice as much as this one. Our urbanization will continue from now on. In 2018, we predict that the urbanization rate will go up to 76.4 percent. In this framework, we're going to give our cities a different importance. We've already started a study on transformation in areas at risk of disaster. During this time of plan, these studies will continue intensively. We will continue to provide housing for our small-income people. When you look at urban infrastructure, the drinking and using water network has reached 99 per cent of sufficient municipalities. The total population of municipalities that purify drinking and using water is 52 per cent. We have reached 88 per cent and 62 per cent, respectively, in services related to the sewage network and waste water treatment. The total population of the municipality, which regularly stores in solid waste area, has reached 60 per cent of the population. Our work on all of these matters will continue to increase. Ray systems are growing in our large-scale cities. He's reached 477 kilometers. In particular, we've created what we call the Water and Sewering Infrastructure Programme for small-scale, underfunded municipalities. In the last three years, we've given about $1.5 billion to support the budget, and we're going to continue this program in the coming period. We will continue to engage in the ministry of our new Law of Co-ordinating and improving quality in major cities, especially in local administrations. On the other hand, resources from the budget to the local authorities will have increased during this period. We will continue to implement environmentally sensitive policies and strategies in accordance with the principles of sustainable development on environmental and disaster management, improving our legislation and institutional capacity. I've already made an assessment of international cooperation for development, and I don't want to go into that further. On the other hand, we have priority transformation programs. We've put 25 priority transformation programs on this plan to strengthen the application foot in particular, and then we'll determine the details after the plan. I don't want to go into the details because there will be further details about these matters. Thank you so much for listening for your attention again. I wish you all the best in the plan, the best in the world, and all the best in the world.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0056par0035	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the first chapter.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0057par0038	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Development Plan 476. I salute you all. We're developing with secret listening, secret investigations, secret witnesses, secret evidence, TOMAbooks, Panzers, then, building-ship models; from treasures to the sale of forests; rivers, ports, environment, nature, culture, all of this, the wealth of this country, the future of our children, the future of humanity in our country, the ten thousand years of history and culture. A development plan has been in fashion since 1963. But today, in the 21st century, Mr. Secretary, the bureaucrat spoke so much. He says that many agencies, such experts, such as I don't know who wrote this report. He says, 2014-2018. For God's sake, how many members of this House have been involved in this study? How many of our universities' RD studies have been involved in this? How many environmental organizations have been involved in this? How many economists, on the side of how many labors, defending the rights of those who have been discriminated against, standing at the gates of justice every day... where is it seen that this notion of justice, neoliberal policies, this wild capitalism, this wild profiteering, has developed countries? Participants, pluralism, partnership, determining the future of the country, that's the whole point. If you can't put this into place as a system, and you're aiming for the development of the country as the work of the state's public servants, appointed officials, then the development of that country is out of the question. Look, when we look at the headlines we've been talking about, I'd like to start with a very interesting insight. ▪ Global Developments, he says. The world experienced its third major economic crisis, its global crisis, in 2008. Many of the countries that this global crisis rocked like a dynamo were developed countries; the life index was high, the prosperity level higher than Turkey, the minimum wage higher than Turkey, the education higher than Turkey, the health higher than Turkey, and the resources higher than Turkey. What happened? Greece to Italy, Italy to Spain, Spain to Portugal, Portugal to Ireland and from time to time in France, Germany to England... Now, look at the geography of Turkey today when such a different development quickly spread across the world. Let's look at the Middle East, let's look at Syria, let's look at Iraq, let's look at Iran, let's look at the energy dimension of what happened in the Middle East, let's look at water security, and let's look at the improvements of Middle East again, in the 21st century. Consider the Arab Spring that happened here. If you're saying that all of this doesn't affect Turkey, it'll pass by; if you say that all of this doesn't affect our people, that nothing will happen, that when you get up at dawn, you'll see the opposition of the hundreds of thousands of people in the squares that were poured out in the dawn of that morning, in the environment where the tents were burned, the environmentalists were being abused behind them, the violence that was being used. This objection is to such development models, such unilateral rant mechanisms, such unilateral adjudication mechanisms, such as Turkey's $1 trillion budget, which you don't get, my citizen's objection. It's got its parts to read, it's got its parts to learn. You can make channel Istanbul. How many trillion? Where are you gonna get a loan? Which bank will you get it from? What international capital are you going to run it with? Which one are you going to do with the do-it-all? If you're going to leave the bill of $10 billion, the burden of the citizens who live here, their children, their grandchildren, their grandchildren, if you're going to be a burden, you're selling the future of this country. This isn't development, guys. If you do this in Galataport, and then you dive into the field of energy without knowing anything, in nuclear plants, in Akkuyu, in Sinopeda, in the environments where history, in which history, Hasankeyf, is lost, you can't create a life in Turkey, because I'm going to enter from Akkuyu, Sinop. A habitable Turkey has a place to cross first and first; it passes through justice, through a peaceful society. If there's justice in that society, there's peace, there's development in that society. If you can't build its mechanism, you're mistaken if you believe that the Kenan Universe will be developed by the coup laws of September 12th, by its constitutions. If you believe that the Kenan Universe, by the Law of Political Parties, by election laws, by election dams, by the understanding that the nation is free to choose its own representative, by the laws of coup, by the laws of choice, by the laws of freedom, by the law of freedom. We're very clear that if there are 10,000 politicians arrested in those special authorities, you can't get up, you can't talk about justice. Look, guys, I've watched the hearings in the special court of Diyarbakır this week for exactly five days. Thirty-two years as a criminal lawyer, as a friend of yours who worked in international law, I was torn apart, my heart was torn apart, and I was devastated when I saw the sight of my country, my people falling. Faysal Sarıyıldız, Şırnak MP; Selma Irmak, Şırnak MP; Gülser Yıldırım, Mardin MP; I attended the trial of all of them and they were arrested for four and a half years. Four and a half years in prison, our friends were charged with membership in the organization. Well, there's lawyers at all the parties. Open the second joke of Article 314, the required sentence is five years. Now, what kind of justice can judges talk to me about, what humanity can he talk about, what law can he talk about, what conscience? No one's gonna sell it to us. If we are still patient, it is of our dignity. Otherwise, there will come a time when you'll make us rebel enough to say, "You'll have your justice." (Applause from BDP rows) We're really rioting, we're rioting against injustice. What's that like? Don't you have a ministry? Don't you have experts? The thousands of experts who prepared these development models for you? Did you go to prison? Did you talk to the lawmakers in prison? Have you asked any of the chosen, normal citizens what conditions they live in? For God's sake, tell me, was this injustice so great during the time of Canaan's Universe? For God's sake, tell me, was it so much in state security courts? For God's sake, tell me we're dealing with a special court-martial classic from the law enforcement court. Now, I've built a lot of courts here in this country... you've done great courts. The Clumsy Courthouse and the largest courthouse in Europe are the Eagle Courthouse. In that courthouse, the lawyers who defend in their robes, in their own place, in their own field, if the robocop gendarmes are attacking, if the task force is attacking, if the security is attacking, if the Riot Force you brought in is attacking the lawyer, if the defense is attacking, come on, what justice, what development are you talking about, folks? If they asked you where development and progress began, where prosperity began, you'd say... In the OECD countries, we wanted to see why the world's 16th economy in terms of its life index was in the 87th place, in this development plan. Tell me, why are we behind in training? Why are we number 87 in the OECD countries and in the world rankings in health? Tell us, for God's sake, in this country where minimum wagers get 700 or something, how can you show us in what corner of this development report, where the hunger limit of a family of four is $3,996 in our country, where there's $3,996 in the numbers of the union, where these people are living, this charm, this magic, this justice, this development? I'm being very clear, maybe it upsets you what I said. Nowhere in the world, there is no example of a country where housing such as TOKI is given to the Prime Minister and contractorship, subcontractorship. It's what municipalities do, it's what social governments do, it's different organizations, but the state doesn't build state's prime minister. We're being very clear, maybe what we say hurts. Maybe you're talking to us about your region in intergalactic instability. You're saying that the biggest investment in the history of the Republic has been made in our time. You can call it that. I'm not denying it, but if you've spent $100 on it, don't forget it's 70 lira on security and police station. You've built the largest prison in Şırnak, for 2,000 people, congratulations. Look, God exists, I see what's done, and I see what's wrong, but beyond those HES dams, why doesn't this development plan tell us that Turkish Coal Company has rushed out of Şırnak and closed its shop? In the 1900s, when science reveals in Şırnak, southeast, that the oil map of Abdulhamit is still valid in all areas today, can this development plan give me an idea of why these companies are all foreign companies, foreign capital companies? Can you tell me that the public has only one organization left to live and make a profit? About oil... from the sugar factories, about PANKOBIRLIK, about the beet maker, which you didn't ruin, which quotas you put in! You didn't do that in tobacco? You banned his tobacco, he went to foreign countries. We've been through this in nuts, we've been through this in grapes, we've been through this in cotton. In our country, which is the center of animalism, we entrust this country to assholes. We're feeding our citizens meat from the assholes from imports. Maybe you'll say: "It's cheaper. Believe me, there's no need to buy an angus from Mexico, Bolivia, go to Bulgaria, Greece, open cheaper gates than that, citizens will buy and come. Development has a plan, but privatisation doesn't have a plan, guys. You can tell me which privatisation is planned, can you tell me which institution is left to sell? Can you tell me, friends, if there's anything left to sell, which is now a public institution in Turkey? Believe me, God, you don't have a public institution left except to export your security forces to cross-border operations. Therefore we send for him to Sudan, and to the Gulf, and to Eden, and to Afghanistan, and to other places for him.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0058par0055	The air you breathe!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0057par0056	I'm leaving the air we breathe now. In Şanlıurfa, the Mardinde GAP project... the Minister of Development, the Minister of Development, has been watering the foundation of the GAP project for 40 years. In the report he gave me here, Mr. Secretary, the GAP project has been watered down by 17 per cent. It's already 16 per cent before the AK PARTI power, and you've done 1 per cent, you've increased it. Congratulations on the 1%. And you know what you did with it? You took the money of the workers at the unemployment fund, and you put them there, and you did it with them. Now, for God's sake, you're taking the worker's money, so at least put him to bed. I asked Ahmet Türke the other day if he had reached your station. Then you can't talk about 5 million jobs if you don't water the plains of Mardin. You can't talk about agriculture industry, development, the development of this country if you don't water the plains of Mardin until you have watered it. If you try to put a meter on the agricultural producers you call electric debt, I'll be devastated if you try to put a meter on the artizian water that you've brought out of the artesian wells in your own land. I suggest you do an RD study, and let that be the period in front of you in this development plan. You make the citizen's breathing worse, the country gets better. Come on, guys. There is one more truth in this country. If you put justice in this, the development... well, I'm asking you: there was a National Programme in 2001-2002 during the coalition government, the European Union. All of your commitments had calendars. It's been five years, seven years. Why didn't you? The National Program was the program. Well, you didn't. E, if you don't, they'll take Croatia, the 28th European Union, and you'll wait at the door. It's not that simple, it's not that hard. If in Turkey the number of union workers before the coup of Kenan Evren is over 3 million and trade rights and freedoms are restricted during the AK PARTI administrations, the strike sites are spreading and the workers are being stopped and fired, and there is something wrong with that, friends, if there are less than a million workers of 76 million in Turkey. Again, I'll tell you this: it's not just him, take a prescription, then go to a pharmacy. Health, commercialized. You've commercialized everything human. What was human? Health. God bless everyone's health, because when they're not healthy, they're not worth anything. Now, the citizen has been sentenced to green card for a long time. You condemned the green card to the election. And that wasn't enough, and now that someone's been on the road taking one drug bill, taking part in the medication, taking part in the examination, the price of the prescription, the equivalent price difference, the addition per box, I don't know, private hospital difference fee -- something like a special chestnut -- the price of the examination, early examination, primary examination fee, exceptional health care. Is this what you were going to create in development, my friends? A country has developed in development to the extent that health is poor. Same thing, we're coming to training. Education has also been privatised, commercialized, and single-specified. Now, when we look through all of this, there's a plot of opposition that we've given as a deed to this development. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we stood up in energy, friends, we said yes to energy, but we called it renewable energy. We said we'd be a resource country, not a transit country. We said there are models for Turkey's development, not so that the Russians can build a nuclear power plant, for 12 cents, but also through the kilowatt/hour that you're costing 1.2 cents on the GAP Project in the southeast. We also said, frankly, that if you hand over the energy to the aliens, you'll also surrender your security. If you see Turkey as a country where the power pipelines go to Europe, you'll be wrong, you won't be able to make money there. Now, recently, some tokens have dropped, and in Kurdistan, Iraq, our oil companies have bought natural gas tenders and things in a few places. It's too late. I wish it had been taken sooner. I wish you hadn't handed over the license of oil, coal, natural gas to foreign companies in our area. I wish you hadn't handed over 48,000 mining licenses in this country like bread, cheese, gum. I wish you'd followed up on how many commissions the pursers took from the back of that license every time you gave it to them, and you'd see how those commissions flow to subcontractors. I wish you could see in these sources, which are extremely important for the future of this country, that it's a plan, it's a project, it's a development project, it's the biggest project in the development plan, it's the right project. Turkey's future, development, support, unity, integrity, equal citizenship, freedom, justice and equality are in the solution project, friends. We protect our resources, we evaluate our resources, the flow of blood stops, justice develops, the prisons are empty, the standard of living goes up, our resources go up, and that's what we need to put the right codes in this project. These correct codes should not only be coal in Mount Cudi, which fuels the appetite of foreign capital, or there should not be 12 security HES dams in Habur Tea, beyond that. Beyond that, if it's down to 800,000 sheep herds should be on foot, in our country, where the previous figure is 3.5 million, how do we get that number and improve it? If we can't talk about all of this, we can't look at the language of the Kurds, the sect of Alevi, the religion of the minority, the difference of differences, and look at everything in this country and see each one of them as a marginal, each one as an ideological, each one as a marauder, and the development of this country, my friends. This country is a beautiful country with its marauder, its marginal, its ideology, its conservative, its Islamist, its revolutionary, its all because it is rich, it is like a flower garden. It's important to be the conductor of this instrument, to be able to capture this harmony, to carry out this beautiful harmony. Now, I ask you, are you going to postpone the barriers to freedom of thought and organization to 2023? How many decisions did you get at the AK PARTY convention, Mr. Kubat, was it 61? Here's 61, put it in there, it's a development plan! Friends, the government's development plan cannot be the same as the parties' plans for development. Development plans are a state-of-the-art event where everyone participates. The Minister objects to me from here. Minister, when you arrived in 2002, 1,860,000 hectares of land would be watered, and today 2013, 11 years passed. Come out of this bench, and say: "It was watered 280,000 hectares before us." Say: "We did 10 times that in 11 years, it was 280,000 hectares, and we brought it up to 580,000 hectares. Let's celebrate, congratulate, but you can't say that you watered 580,000 hectares of land there; you don't say that you watered 580,000 hectares of land there; the land is there; the drills are there, there are watering your pipes there. Damascus is there, but the measurement is here; you can come and see. That's not progress. Let this project live, and seasonal workers don't die every day in traffic accidents. They should go to places other than their own country, their own country, and be insulted for being Kurds. That's what we've been through in our sad days when there are people who work in their cotton fields, in their nut fields. We can get ahead of it and get you a job in your field. We can provide something very beautiful. If we're a social state, if we can get justice for the social state, if we can give them a fair hand to the disabled, the workers, the disadvantaged groups, everyone who is a citizen of this country, if we can extend to them the resources of this state, if we can extend to them the resources of this state, if we can get the taxpayer's tax to military expenditures, not security, education, health, and living cities, we can do much better. If you divide those coins into gas bombs, those gas bombs will also kill and extinguish the life that exists in Beşiktaş, Çazşı, where the grass will not run out. This understanding is wrong, this development model is wrong, this type of development is wrong. In this country, you have created the distinction of poverty and wealth, the very few rich people, the very large poor people. This cliff you created, this cliff, will enter into your dreams at night as a fearful dream of every political power, but it will enter in the Travel Park, but it will enter in a song, but it will enter in a banner, it will enter, it will enter. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We invite everyone to the right path, to be on the right path, to work. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0059par0070	Thank you. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, is the first speaker to speak for the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the department. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0060par0074	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation on behalf of myself and my group. I'd like to bring a few things to your attention before I begin my speech. First of all, I'm suggesting that a very valuable, very important, strategically-valued negotiation, such as development plans, should be discussed with this disinterest. At this point, I'd like to point out that the government and the ministry have not been able to provide the necessary attention. Really, development plans are more important than budgets, much more important than budgets, because we're talking about the future, we're talking about the strategy for expanding the future. So, both in public, in the eyes of civil society, in the eyes of the press, there had to be a sense of interest, and this is the case with Turkey's opposition to the Grand National Assembly. So, even when we're talking about our nation's future, I'd like to put it to your attention as a sign of the importance, of the seriousness that we've given to the matter, if we don't feel the need to create a common mind, to discuss a subject. Another thing: I know that the development plan has been prepared with great effort. All of my fellow bureaucrats who have been involved in this plan, my political friends, especially my group of members of the Commission, my friends of the Plan and Budget Commission, and all of the MPs, I thank you, on behalf of my group. Dear friends, it's a little hard to talk after Hasip Kaplan, so he couldn't stand the tense weather himself, so he went out, apparently. Therefore, the matter must be softened. Dear friends, we must give thanks for the achievements of our republic. It's not our right to be pessimistic all the time. We also need to deliver that this government, this nation, has traveled very important distances over the past 90 years. To everyone who's worked so hard to reach these days, we're here to thank you as the National Party for Action. What's done is far too important. But being content with less does not allow you to live freely in this geography. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we consider the Turkish nation worthy of the best of everything, the best of everything, most of it. So today, when we're talking about the development plan, if there's still about half of the population living under the poverty line in our country, with 10 million pensioners, 20 million farmers, 10 million green card holders, 5 million minimum wage people, we have to say there's a lot more to be done. Dear friends, I'm going to talk to you in a very general way: members of our group, member of the Plan and Budget Commission, and head of headquarters, will speak in detail and express their proposals and comments. But when we talk about the definition of development plans and the importance of community life, we need to be more careful about one thing: the development plans should be aimed at the future, not yesterday. So, of course, some things have been done, Mr. Secretary, and he told me that in good faith, we've done this. That's true, it's done, but if we want to live in this geography free, free, and independent, if we want to be strong, if we want to make our social union strong, if we want to make our nation's reputation strong in the nation's community, that's not enough. We need plans to develop, even budgets, towards the future, towards great goals. Or is today better than yesterday, thanks, better, but is it enough? It's not enough. If 50 percent of society still has to live under the poverty line today, if some international scales still have our country in the bars below 50 percent, then that's not enough, it's not right, there's very important things to do. Therefore, development plans need to be discussed by targeting the future, not the past, but the future. To me, that's the most important flaw in this plan. What's the future? Dear friends, I mean, it's not about raising the national income from five to ten. The 8th Annual Development Plan, which we set up in 2001 with a vision of 2023, was done in a 25-year perspective, so the goals of the year 2023 were laid out. At the time, the goal we set was the leader country, Turkey. Turkey should have been the leader of all parameters in its region, at least. Well, now we have to set up a parameter. I think you should have written on the forehead of this development plan, Mr. Secretary, that the 21st century will be the Turkish century. You should have thought about what to do to make it happen, talked about it, debated and legal, but -- my friends will tell me, I won't go into too much detail -- there's no vision of this development plan. Your vision of 2023 is not enough. His 2023 vision is behind him. This was supposed to be a vision document, not a vision document, I'm afraid. It's made up in a budget sense, four years later, five years later, it's back to a report that you edited out where you're going to deliver the numbers. But it's a vision of the future, a vision, an idea. Wherever these people wanted to be, as intellectuals, as politicians, as a state, as a civil society, we had to predict it, put it in front of society, and we had to discuss the techniques, the policies that would develop it together, embrace it and make it a law, but unfortunately, you don't have that consequence, dear friends. Dear friends, as a basic criteria for our highly valued development plans -- in the words of our professor, Orhan Turkdoğan -- we have friends who are freedom, property and personality triangles in the human centre of the trilogy of human, society and state -- we have to care a lot about that, they know that, we have sociologist friends, they know that. This plan needs to present this philosophy outside of its numerical data. A man should be free, not afraid, not worried about the future. To prepare its energy for the future, one has to be free to put its energy into place. This was the plan that needed to be done in order for man to be free. A man must have something to own, something to fight for, something to own. Thus, this plan and the government based on this plan had to predict how to increase the ownership of a human being, and to question in this sense the ineffective aspects of a system that makes a man look like a man, and to present the measures that should be taken. I mean, this plan was supposed to reveal how he would join his future of his own free will, how he would decide, how he could internalize the democratic system, how he could institutionalize it. I mean, a human-based development plan, the center of a human-centered vision of the future, freedom, property, and personality... it's impossible to have the personality of a person who isn't free, the person who doesn't own property. It's not like the nation community, which is the sum total of people who have no personality, has no future. If he does not have a philosophy that determines this fact, his plans for development, his predictions, and his data are not beyond statistical information. So, as we live in today, there's no excitement in society, no red apples, no goal, no common denominator of society, no goal for us to be excited about doing it together. So, dear friends, it's been a lot of work, but I'm afraid there won't be any lack of that kind of effort to achieve or achieve the goal. So, there had to be a philosophy of this development plan, Mr. Secretary, that had to have a vision, and this philosophy, this vision, we had to excite the whole community, we had to walk into the future in that common denominator. By combining the energy of each member of this community, we had to put together a programme to carry out the leading country, Turkey. Dear lawmakers, the speech I've written on this subject is 74 pages, but as I said, it doesn't make much sense that this matter was discussed before it could be delivered to the House, without costing it to the nation. I also have to say that the development plans have been made a constitutional obligation in Article 166 of our Constitution. There's no response to matters that have been ruled over in Article 166, Mr. Secretary. I mean, there's no way you can provide rapid development here, Mr. Secretary. There's no explanation for how to maintain rapid development. Also, there is no part of the Constitution that has to be discussed in a wholety of facts, either Turkey or the world economy. Therefore, I have a feeling that a pattern has been fulfilled. I thank you for your hard work, bureaucratic friends, but the answer to the question of how political power, the bureaucracy, the State Planning Agency, will accomplish its goals in front of it, is that the targets are not accurate, so the statistics have not been achieved beyond a number of numbers. I'd like to bring one more thing to your attention. Dear friends, the State Planning Agency prepares the development plans. This is the Supreme Court of the 1961 Constitution. As the Constitution of 1961 was under way, the late Prime Minister Alparslan Türkesh, established the State Planning Organization and headed towards planned economic policy and the first development plan was carried out after those preparations. Thus, in the Constitution after that, the development plan in the 166th Article of today's Constitution will be by bureaucrats to determine techniques, alternatives, and put them in front of the High Planning Board. I mean, the State Planning Agency is a little autonomous, a non-politic organization, that's how it's been established, but now that you've been authorized by the Ministry of Development to draft a development plan under Law 641, it's become a political text, a document of political power. But it's supposed to be a state policy, it's got to be a state policy. Now it's a government document. That's not true, you've lost a very serious win. I mean, you've trapped the dream of the future of the country, of the future of the nation, of how we're going to fulfill our goals in such a narrow space that it's an expression of that. I didn't see anything in the press about the development plan. That's why I'm telling you: an opportunity has been wasted. A social cooperation, the opportunity to determine our future together as a social contract, is unfortunately wasted on these new policies. Besides, there are many things to be judged by in this plan you've made. After me, my fellow members of the National Movement Party Plan and Budget Commission will present them here. After all, I wish this plan to be a blessing, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0061par0088	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Sumer Oral, and Manisa MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0062par0091	Mr. President, I would like to express my opinion on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the Tenth Annual Development Plan. I salute you and your esteemed deputies. The country's Ten Years of Development Plan, which, starting in 2014, has been the inventory of all its resources for the next five years, and which areas are assigned to these resources and what kind of product is to be taken from here, will unfortunately be legalized today in our Parliament without the public attention it deserves. I find the situation extremely intriguing. In the past, planning negotiations would have been the country's main agenda, debated for days, and public opinion would have followed. I don't see much good in this indifference. The main goal of the Tenth Annual Development Plan, which we began our negotiations with, no doubt, is to restore the standard of modern countries to our country, as in Plan Nine and earlier plans before it, and to achieve development with both moral and material size and criteria. Basically, it's not just economic growth that needs to be wanted, it's development. One important thing is that all this effort and effort has been shown within a modern democracy that has been resolved and a well-functioning state structure. What are the targets envisioned in various sectors as part of the plan period, what is the needed resource, what is the amount of internal resources needed to meet these goals, what size is the external resource required, and if external resources will be found, where and what conditions will this be found? These are the goals set one by one in the plan and will be discussed to the extent that it will take place. One feature of Plan 10 is that it creates the first of two plans to be implemented prior to 2023, the 100th year of our republic's founding. Turkey's goal to enter ten countries with the largest economy in 2023, as it is known, was in the Eighth Development Plan, covering the long-term strategy and the 2001-2005 period. It appears that 2023 is a target in the basic documents of the state when the Justice and Development Party is not yet in sight. The economic performance and results of the decade that we left behind do not reveal a promising picture of a national income worth 2 trillion dollars, in terms of the world's top 10 countries. Therefore, the Tenth Development Plan has a vital and different significance on its way to catching its 2023 target. The global financial and economic crisis, which began in 2008, remains effective, but will continue for a while. Although the United States has recently recovered itself, problems continue on this side of the ocean, in Europe, especially in the eurozone, in areas such as public deficits, weakness in the banking system, growth and unemployment. Politically speaking, there have been serious and very complicated developments in our environment, especially in our neighbors. Even though all these risks and expectations are undoubtedly considered to a certain extent in the preparation of the plan and the determination of sizes, it is difficult to predict from today where their real dimensions will reach. It's also useful to underline all of this today. The Tenth Plan, where we are meeting, is based on Plan Nine. Plan Ten is built on the results of Plan Nine. In 2013, the ninth annual Plan, in which we live in the year, there have been significant deviations in basic macroeconomic indicators, such as growth, inflation, domestic savings, payments balance, budget deficits. It's also a fact that there are significant deviations in some areas beyond that. Of course, our wish is to provide a more successful performance in the Tenth Annual Development Plan practice that we're considering, and to make significant contributions to the rise of the Turkish nation's prosperity. Mr. President, valued lawmakers show a country's economic power, economic performance, the degree of resistance to external conditions, the country's domestic savings rate, the country's balance of payments, and the unemployment rate. It can also be added to the rate of growth, but the three main issues are the domestic savings rate, the balance of payments and the unemployment rate. They're mostly taken care of. As such, these criteria are often considered in the economic comparisons of countries. In these matters, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief point or two. When we look at the progress of domestic savings, unfortunately, we face a picture that diminishes every year. In 2012, domestic savings, which are 14.8 per cent of the non-employee, are estimated to fall back to 14.4 per cent in 2013, so the decline continues. That was 23.4% in 2002. Specially, the savings of the private cut have been greatly regressed. There has to be a cure. If not, it will also be extremely difficult for us to ensure the growth Turkey needs. Yes, there are certain measures taken in this area, but they're obviously not enough. It needs to be seen how it will be provided, especially during these two planning periods before 2023. The plan was intended to increase from 14.4 per cent to 19 per cent in the next five years. A spectacularly ambitious expectation doesn't seem like an easy target. That's the main reason for our economy, and that's the main problem. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the wheels of growth and economics today are largely off-source when domestic savings are not enough. Such a painting no doubt carries significant risks within its body. It's not always possible to find easy money as it is today. And We are watching the signs of this near at hand. Speaking of which, I'd like to share with you a few remarkable paintings. The difference between external assets and external obligations has still increased to 450 billion dollars. The $336 billion section of the deficit is above the corporations. This deficit, which is $450 billion, is a serious obligation to our economy. On the other hand, the size of the hot money that has come into our country has reached a far more reasonable level. As of January 2013, 183 billion dollars reached $276 billion in portfolio investments. Only these two pens reveal how sensitive we are to the external conjunctural structure in terms of the economy. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have an external payment table, which is now $220 billion in Turkey this year. There's an external debt due at 163 billion dollars, and there's a cost deficit of $60 billion. So it's clear that this year, between $220 and $225 billion, we need a source. The deficit in domestic savings, without a doubt, brings the balance of payments. In 2011, the current rate in our country, as we all know, was up to 10 per cent of the illegitimate national product, compared to the decline in growth in 2012, 6.5 per cent. As a country, we are still one of the highest current countries in the world. At the beginning of problems with structural properties of our economy, the balance of current transactions comes. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with your permission, I'd like to briefly mention growth: as Turkey, we need to grow by 7 per cent a year. The average growth rate between 2007 and 2012 was 3.3 per cent. The reason he was under the mark may be linked to the global crisis, but in the pre-crisis, he was also prone to decline in growth. The trend had been transformed into a quality that had lost altitude before 2008. Even the lack of a 5.5 per cent growth target predicted in the Tenth Plan, which will cover the next five years, seems to be very difficult unless structural problems mentioned above are resolved. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers will be the public finances of another problem awaiting the Tenth Annual Development Plan. It's impossible to rule out significant obstructions and problems in public finance and financial discipline. The spending foot of budgets has largely lost flexibility. In the income leg, taxes have become an unhealthy structure. The reduction in interest revenues has lost its ability to cover increased interest-free spending. The tax system was almost entirely based on indirect taxes. Indirect taxes have increased by six to seven percent over the past decade. In recent years, there has been a once-in-a-lifetime appeal to resources and income measures within the year. The current structure requires a number of structural arrangements that will become healthy in the mid-term, but the current conjunctive is not suitable for the implementation of these reforms, although it is not likely to yield results. I'd like to point out that reform is a process that requires continuity. If the continuum is not observed, the gains in previous reforms will also be lost. Relationships with the European Union are especially important for our country in economic terms. Negotiations with the European Union have served as an extremely important anchor for the Turkish economy, which today retains. No doubt the course of relationships does not depend solely on our attitude, but it is the result that counts, the need to be moderate in attitudes. As of today, we have a seat at the European Union table. Instead of anger and anger, I think it will be more effective and more effective. During the tenth five years of development, I hope these issues will be dealt with with with the appropriate sensitivity. One of the misfortunes of the Ten Years Plan will be that the first year in 2014, the second year in 2015, but both have very important elections. We don't apply election policy in election time. It's kind of impossible. Especially since budgets have been largely reduced to bags and funding budgets, it would be inevitable that elections, not only with funding, but with other applications, would have a negative impact on budget discipline. Mr. President, I thank his esteemed colleagues, especially to the Minister, and to the precious, precious experts of the state, I wish the plan to be a blessing to our country.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0063par0111	Thank you. Rahmi Türeli of Love, İzmir MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0064par0114	Mr. President, I have received a pledge to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the Tenth Development Plan. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to focus first on the concept of planning in today's speech. Then, in what way did the Ninth Development Plan take place? Because as you know, the Tenth Development Plan is based on the fulfillment of the Ninth Development Plan, and there is a certain continuity, a certain continuity. Finally, I will focus on the Tenth Development Plan. As you know, valuable lawmakers, planning is a resource allocation mechanism. There are two resource allocation mechanisms that societies have found so far; one is market, and one is planning. In many countries, when you look at it, we see that the market or planning is a priority. In Turkey's original co-planning experience, the market is considered a resource allocation mechanism, but planning has been put into action as a resource allocation mechanism, so if we direct our resources, our available scarce resources to what priorities, we will grow faster, which is a mandate for the public. The public, after all, has to stick to the goals within the plan, the policies, the commitment. It's also a guide for the private sector. It's guiding. In such a sense of planning, Turkey has begun its planning experience since 1963. The first three plans -- from 1960 to 1980 -- are more likely to be the period when Turkey has an imported substitution growth model, so it's a planning mechanism for producing products that we import from the outside in the country. This has also been a serious success. The three stages are predicted here, the planning mechanism for the importer model. First of all, to produce and substitute consumer goods in Turkey. The second stage is interim goods, which are produced in Turkey. The third stage is based on the substitution of investment goods. Turkey has achieved significant success in the process of producing consumer goods in Turkey. Later, the second phase of planning for the production of interim goods in Turkey was moved to the second stage of the importer model, but it also coincided with the 1970s. As you know, the 1970s were years of crisis in the world. There are two major oil shocks in 1973 and 1978, and as a result, the entire world's economies suffered severe tremors. Turkey tried to implement its second term in planning in an external growth model, changing this model after 1980. This model was initially a major advantage, so a growth model focused on Turkey's production and exporting of certain goods was implemented in Turkey, when we thought that Turkey's crises were ultimately all over the external payment crisis. Of course, if you're going to produce a product in Turkey, there are certain production factors, which you have the production factor in which you specialize more and more in it. Turkey has also tried to integrate through the model with the world economy -- the most abundant production factor is labor. The end of the 1980s is also a period when Turkey's economy opens to capital movements, external capital movements. As a result, a model of growth from the outside, based on what we call short-term, hot-term capital movements has been implemented in the Turkish economy, but there are certain complications, there are negatives. One of them -- as I've just said -- is the industrialisation of Turkey. Turkey should produce more high-end goods and services, but low-intensity means that it stays in the production of valuable goods and services. In this sense, Turkey has not adapted labour markets to ILO standards. Today in Turkey, we see that a labor market, based on low wages, underprivileged labor, is dominated by a very high subcontractorization, and in the same way, its sovereignty, its stamp on the market. When we look at it this way, especially in the post 1980 period, we see that Turkey's economy grows at intervals, three years, four years, five years in a row, and then all of a sudden the growth stopped, and the Turkish economy went into crisis. Now, of course, the Tenth Development Plan is a plan to determine the future of Turkey, what strategy it will follow in the next five years, what priorities it will devote its resources to, and so it should be. However, Mr. Secretary, when we look at the Tenth Development Plan, unfortunately, we see that this is not so because the Tenth Development Plan is an extremely embarrassing, unconcerned plan. It is based on the assumption that the effects of the global crisis will continue. This also means that international liquidity will no longer be as abundant as it used to be. What should have been the result? When we think that planning is a resource allocation mechanism, it's a pity that there is no perspective on Turkey's economy that should be solved by interfering with the economy through planning. So the plan was not used as a means of serious intervention to the economy, it was a plan where the existing structure was accepted and certain claims were eliminated. Now, of course, dear lawmakers, I think it's necessary to mention Plan Nine before discussing Plan Ten, before discussing it. Now, look, while the Ninth Development Plan was being discussed in the House -- of course, after that, we read the transcripts -- it was highlighted by the Minister at the time that this plan had three basic features. The first is that the Ninth Development Plan is a strategic plan, a strategic plan that prioritizes problems, focusing on basic goals and priorities. The second feature is that the European Union has a plan that adapts to the fiscal period. Because we know that in Turkey's co-planning experience and plans he made, he'd always gone through five years of development, and that's how he'd settled, and we'd never talked about it before, we'd call it a five-year development plan, but we saw in the Ninth Development Plan, and we suddenly came up with a seven-year development plan. The EU period will continue accession talks with the EU, with a mechanism designed to function in harmony with the EU. Gene, a third feature of the Ninth Development Plan -- because it was a ambitious plan -- was envisioned to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism. So, the head of the DPT Undersecretary was to be established as a supervisory and guidance committee of representatives of the relevant institutions. And then this committee would meet, and the planning period of the plan, there would be improvements in the plans period, in what direction, in what direction are the plans, in which they would study them, observe them closely, and make annual reports, and the Council of Ministers would present it to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers would, as a result, create a structure that would enable the plan to be implemented, if there were specific deviations in the plan. Now, when we look at these three basic properties, we see that all three of them have been seriously eliminated, that these perspectives have not been implemented, that they have been prepared as a strategic plan, but the monitoring-valuement mechanism within the strategic plan, performance measurement, none of these have been implemented in the Ninth Development Plan. Gene, the monitoring and evaluation committee of this plan -- it also requires active intervention -- has never been established in any way, valued lawmakers. Such a committee has not been established, has not been met. In the seven-year period of the plan, the developments have not been observed, taken into consideration, the annual reports haven't been prepared and haven't been submitted to the Council of Ministers. And even worse, even though there was a seven-year development plan for the EU integration perspective, in 2007-2013, the EU accession talks with the EU have reached a complete stalemate. We can say that Turkey has almost lost its EU perspective. How do we know that? Because when we look at the Tenth Development Plan, we see that there are no serious perspectives, no strategy, no policy, on the perspectives of membership with the EU. On the other hand, the Ninth Development Plan had a vision: a Turkey growing in stability, sharing its income fairly, competing on a global scale, turning into an information society, finishing its integration into the EU. I've already stated that there is no Turkey that has completed its integration process for EU membership. Has there ever been a Turkey growing in stability in the Ninth Development Plan? I'm afraid not. Let me give you the number of growth: the growth of 2007-2013 was estimated to be 7 percent in the plan, 3.5 percent in the future, valued lawmakers. There is a crisis, of course, the global crisis; the global crisis began in the last quarter of 2008 and ended in the third quarter of 2009, so it is a one-year period. When we subtract the negative growth of 2009 by 4.8 percent, the growth rate is only 4.9 percent. Well, I mean, don't we have a right to ask here, right now? The growth rate of the Turkish economy from the beginning of the Republic of Turkey to this day is already around 5 per cent, valued lawmakers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The year-to-year growth of 1923-2002 is 4.8 percent. When we receive multiparty regimes from last 1946, the year 1946-2002 is 5.2 percent. In the AKP period, the rate of growth is only 5 per cent, when we look at the assumption that 2003-2013 will take place and 4 per cent will take place in 2013. Gene, the claim that a national income per person is $10,000 didn't actually happen today. Of course, it was $10,000, but in 2008 it was the result of a revision of about 30 per cent in national income, or at the moment, our national income would be around $7,000. The rate of fixed capital investment increased by 9.1 per cent was estimated to be 4.4 per cent. Industry was envisioned to increase its share of illegal domestic revenue; it has not increased, nor has it increased. Foreign trade targets are unrealistic. The export plan was targeted at $210 billion, while the deviation was 158 billion, 52 billion. Although imports have been estimated to be $275 billion, there has been 253 billion -- I'm using predictions that will happen here -- so there's a $22 billion deviation there. I mean, we're close to imports, maybe to targets, but we're behind in exports. As a result, the current accountability deficit was expected to fall to 3 per cent of the national income at the end of the planning period, while, as we know today, it remained at 7 per cent. The TÜFE increase rate is 3 per cent in the plan; the goal of the Central Bank is 5.3 per cent for 2013. The need for debt in the public sector is expected to go from 0.9 per cent to 3.6 per cent more, and it has become 1.5 per cent apparent that the global crisis will also allow the economy to slow down and achieve such goals in this sense -- the same thing is true in the open -- unfortunately that has not happened. Because there is such a tax system that when 70 per cent of this tax-based tax system slows down in Turkey, the VAT is suddenly taken out of exports, the VAT, which includes the VAT from imports, does not have budget targets as a deceleration in the VAT. In 2006 the unemployment rate was 10.4 per cent, while 7.7 per cent was predicted, 8.9 per cent. I mean, unfortunately, there hasn't been a Turkish economy growing in stability. There is a more equitable share of his income, which, unfortunately, is not realistic. When we look at the Gini coefficient -- as you know -- the revenue distribution is a coefficient that disrupts the imbalance between zero and one; the closer we get to zero, the more stable it is, the more unstable it is, the more unstable it is -- from 0.40 in Turkey to 0.37-0.38. So when you look at it seriously, we can see that the revenue distribution in Turkey is not improving, the income distribution is failing, and poverty is increasing. It's not just the numbers that we see, guys, because in the end, we're talking about these numbers, these statistics. These statistics, which I'm going to talk about later, have serious problems in Turkey's statistical system. And since you're probably aware of that, you've put a priority program on developing statistical infrastructure. Because we think there are serious problems in many statistics. A Turkey that has the power to compete on a global scale and transforms into a society of knowledge, he says. Is that so? I'm afraid not. Turkey's economy has not been able to perform a serious structural transformation, especially in the manufacturing industry. In the manufacturing industry of exports, when we look at the technology density of production and exports, we see Turkey moving within a structure dominated by low- and medium-low-tech sectors. Especially when we put 4 in this one, this is an OECD segregation, it's a low-tech, medium-low, medium-high, high-rise, four parts. When we say 100, we see that the share of high-tech sectors in Turkey is at 3.4 per cent. And what's interesting here is that it also falls over time. Production of the manufacturing industry has been reduced to 5.5 per cent in 2002 and 3.5 per cent in 2011, depending on the technology density of its production -- I'm telling you from high-tech sectors. In terms of exporting the manufacturing industry, it has also dropped from 6.2 per cent to 2.8 per cent. When you look at it in this sense, a Turkish claim, Turkey's claim, which produces high-end goods and services, has increased the intensity of technology, has turned into an information society, has not, unfortunately, happened when we look at the numbers that we have today, about macroeconomic indicators. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to move on to Plan Tenth Development, after I tell you that the vision and perspectives of this Ninth Plan have not been fulfilled, that there are serious deviations. First of all, we have to say that the Tenth Development Plan Strategy has not been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. When we deliver this at meetings in the Plan and Budget Commission, the answer to the Minister is that there is actually such a strategy, but it is not submitted to parliament because it does not have to be approved by Parliament. So far, he hasn't reached out to us until this meeting, and he hasn't reached out to us, even though we wanted to. But in all the old plans, strategy is also important. Looking at a strategy, ultimately, where do you come from, where do you want to go? We see it in that strategy, it materializes, it becomes concrete, but unfortunately we haven't seen such a strategy. One thing that is interesting, again, is that there is no reference to long-term strategy in the Tenth Development Plan. As the eighth Development Plan was drafted, Turkey's long-term strategy for 2001-2023 was created, and it was published along with the Eighth Development Plan. When we look at the Tenth Development Plan, in some places, we see expressions such as these in accordance with Turkey's 2023 goals, but it is not possible to determine whether these are long-term strategy or AKP's Government Programme. If such a strategy exists, if you have this strategy, if you have it, Mr. Secretary, we need to emphasize it in the plan. The plan has good analysis of global trends and Turkey's interactions. So where's the world going, what's happening in the area of globalization? There's a horizon tour of them, but there's no question of how these developments will affect the economy of Turkey. As a result, when we're doing this plan together with our competitors, looking at the dynamic process, the world is going here, the developments are in this direction, and we're going to do this, and we're going to be in this kind of interaction. Unfortunately, we can't say that from the plan. In the same way, the lack of a perspective compared to developing countries is a serious lack of the development of the world economy. Again, if I want to continue by saying what I said at first, which, in a sense, is the essence of the Tenth Development Plan -- the Tenth Development Plan is an unassuming plan. It is based on the assumption that the global crisis will continue, that the effects of this will continue to be seen. He knows liquidity won't be as abundant as it used to be, but we need to know that crises are in the world's economic system, capitalism, and drink to it. There are both conjunctural movements in the world economy, so at intervals economies expand, then shrink, and then there are cycles in the economy that we call larger loops. In these last years, the crisis is a systemic crisis of capitalism, and it does not seem to be an easy-to-resolved crisis. He's gone through the previous crises of capitalism in various ways. In between the two world wars, he exceeded demand by Keynesian policies. It exceeded globalization in the 70s, especially when capital movements were released. It was also financed in the 90s and 2000s, creating secondary, third-hand currency through financing, trying to meet demand in the markets through increasing demand. However, this has inflated assets prices, and as a result, when the price of these bottling assets bursts one day, the result is that economies are in serious real crisis. In this sense, in capitalism, there are crises within the world's economic system, it can happen all the time. Tomorrow, this crisis -- again -- has lost its effect. We say, "He can go again." That's why, here, the plan is an important resource allocation mechanism for us. It's gonna be a market. Arza, based on the demand, of course, we're going to determine a set of perspectives, but in general, we're going to say, even if there are global crises, how can we be the least affected by them? How can we reduce the degree of our economy's impact on external crises? How can we eliminate structural problems in Turkey's economy? We need to look at them. What are these structural problems? Dear lawmakers, domestic savings in Turkey are low on national income. So when we think that Turkey needs to invest in growth, like all countries, even to invest in the same amount, if your savings are dropping, you have to save more outside, so you have to give it a higher rate. Turkey's economy has increased its dependence on the import of production and exports. In the Turkish economy, participation in the labour force is 50 per cent. This means that an average of 70 per cent of the working population in OECD is 50 per cent in Turkey as it enters the labour force. Therefore, Turkey is the lowest unemployment rate in OECD countries. It means nothing, it's like picking apples and pears. Gene, in a similar way, the technology density of the manufacturing industry in Turkey is low and the necessary structural transformation cannot be achieved. The tax system, in terms of finance policy, is largely an indirect tax-based system, which is free of tax justice and has made the economy, the tax structure in the economy, seriously sensitive to economic growth, enlargement, or narrowing. Now, we're looking at, of course, a 5.5 percent growth rate. This is a 5.5 percent growth rate that will take Turkey nowhere, my dear friends. Turkey's population growth rate is around 1.25 per cent. At the same time, Turkey is a country where migration from country to country continues and rapid urbanization. So in the cities, the need for infrastructure and superstructure continues. A performance of at least 7 per cent of Turkey's economy in the coming period must be revealed. Of course, I'm not just saying that this doesn't mean that you take the number to 7 percent, as in Plan 9. It needs to be filled, to make assumptions, to create policy sets that can do this, and to raise the Turkish economy towards a higher path. Now, we're looking at the national income of domestic savings: in the 1990s, Turkey was 23 per cent in the 1990s, reduced to 15 per cent in 2003-2012, and some years even to 13 per cent in the 13 per cent. Now, we're looking at our target: the 2014-2018 target is 19 percent. Where can Turkey's economy go with 19 percent? Look, let me compare it to our competitors, countries at similar level of development: the percentage of domestic savings is 51 percent in China, 32 per cent in India, 32 per cent in South Korea, 34% in Singapore, 33% in Indonesia, 35 per cent in Malaysia, 24 per cent in Mexico, 23 per cent in Argentina, and 14 per cent in Turkey -2011 per cent in the same year. The lowest of these countries seems to be Argentina, which is 10 points lower than it is, and the Turkish economy in the 1990s did not give any account deficits, while today, in the AKP period, it was more than 5 per cent. During the 2007-2012 period, the growth rate during the Ninth Development Plan is 3.5 percent, and the current transaction deficit is around 5.3 per cent. During the 2014-2018 plan, the growth rate will rise from 3.5 to 5.5, but the current will only rise from 5.3 to 5.8, which is unrealistic. At the same time, we can also tell from their speculation that this is unrealistic. As a matter of fact, the year 2013 was 1.83. It hasn't happened yet, we don't know. It's now at the level of 1,94, but let's assume it's going to happen. On average, it is estimated to be $1.97 Turkish lira per year, so the nominal increase in the dollar dry is 7.7%, and now, during the plan, the average rate of domestic prices, TUFE, is 4.8 per cent per year, so its cumulative is 26.4 per cent. When we take 2% of domestic prices, we see that when we put them all in yearly: Turkish lira will actually be worth 10 per cent during the plan, which means that Turkey's current model will continue, valued MPs. I mean, it's a model based on hot money. The dollar will be valued. As a result, when exporting, when deterring the exporter, this model will encourage imports, imports will explode, and the current account deficit will increase. However, increasing the current accountability deficit is not only a question of balance of payments, since increasing the current accountability deficit means that Turkey's unemployment will also increase. From the outside, cheap imports from abroad, as of today, Turkey will invade its markets and unemployment will increase as a result. Businesses will be closed, jobs will be laid off, poverty will increase, and that's what we see today. In this model, when we look at the numbers today, when we look at the number of companies that are closing down, when we look at the bonds that are protesting, we see it very clearly and clearly. In terms of finance policy, we see that the plan does not contain a serious policy perspective on taxes. I just said: Turkey is at a very disadvantage in the indirect and indirect tax distinction. So 70 per cent of the taxes taken in Turkey are taxed on spending goods and services, such as VAT, but 30 per cent is taxed on income, over earnings. Turkey, on the other hand, needs immediate access to a tax system that will receive less than less than more than less than gains. Such a model, of course, must be considered, along with the narrowdown of the off-the-book economy. When we look at the decline in public fixed capital investments, especially in national revenues during the AKP, as the opposition party, we also talk in budgets -- in the Plan and Budget Commission -- it seriously upsets and alarms us. Public fixed capital investments amounted to 4.9 per cent in 2002, 4.2 per cent in 2012, and were gradually reduced to 3 per cent during the period. Now, it is estimated that it will go up to 4.8 per cent in 2018, but the valued lawmakers, public investments, are important. Public and private sector investments have a completion relationship, not an exclusion. The public needs to focus fundamentally on physical and social infrastructure investments. The private sector should focus on what we call foreign trade goods, which will increase production, increase exports -- primarily manufacturing industry. However, the recent withdrawal of the public, especially from the infrastructure area -- that's what the public-special partnership models are saying -- has quickly introduced the private sector into this area and has created a very serious weakness. Finally, before I finish my speech, I'd like to point out whether I find the government's 2023 vision and goals realistic: there are two targets here. One in 2023 will be $25,000 per capita income per person in Turkey. Second, in 2023, Turkey will be one of the world's top ten economies. Now, of course, since I'm an old planner, I've done some math. You know, national income is calculated in terms of national currency, so it's calculated in terms of dollars at current prices, and then, after that, it's converted from dollar to dollar -- divided into dollars -- and then divided into populations, and then there's national income per person. Dear friends, valued lawmakers, in my calculations, 2019-2023, in the following term, I took domestic inflation at 3.5 percent, and I did three scenarios: In scenario one, I've increased the exchange rate increase, the dollar dry increase, the difference in domestic-nurse inflation. Two of the inflations, domestic inflation, and foreign inflation. I mean, real courtship doesn't change in this model. If real currency does not change, the economy must grow by at least 9 per cent year-on-year by 2019-2023 in order for national income to be $25,000 in 2023. In the second scenario, I've taken the increase in courtship as more than a domestic-nurse inflation awareness, which means that the dollar is going to go up, so Turkish lira is going to lose its value. In this model, even if the economy grows 15 percent, 20 percent, it won't hold. And in the last scenario, I've been talking about a lower inflation rate, so it's going to be worth dollars. In such a sense, I also took a model here: In 2018, I predicted that it would not change 1.97 euros; in five years, it would remain 1.97 in 2023. The economy needs to grow by 7%. Likewise, it is not possible for this to come between the top ten economies. In summation, the Tenth Development Plan lacks the basic vision to bring Turkey into the future, it lacks its basic vision, assumptions are not correct, goals are unrealistic. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0065par0163	Thank you. Lütfi Elvan, Karaman MP who has asked for the Justice and Development Party Group on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0066par0166	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. I salute you all. First of all, the planning process is as important to us as it is to the plan. Here today, a speaker has criticised the preparation of the plan, and I don't know who you've worked with, whether it's three people or five people, but such a plan does not exist. It's extremely important for us. Why does it matter? We want this plan to be owned by the entire community; again, we want this plan to be owned by all bureaucrats; again, we want this plan to be owned by all politicians. So for the first time -- look, this is our tenth Plan -- there was a local level of work in a plan, the priorities of the locals, the participation of 81 provinces. Who participated in these activities, these studies? When we look at it, we see that the bars are participating, we see that the employers' representatives are participating, we see that union representatives are participating, we see that local governments, academics, NGOs, private sector representatives are participating in this plan. That's the definition of central accession. So, what kind of work was provided at the local level? Studies have been conducted from 81 provinces on the goals of this plan, on how they want a Turkey, on how they want a region, on what kind of province they want in the coming period, problems have been discussed, priorities have been established, perhaps thousands of pages of documents have been delivered to our Ministry of Development, and they have been evaluated one by one, and issues that need to be reflected in the plan. I'd like to thank all the Department of Development bureaucrats, our ministries, our citizens who have contributed to this plan again, especially our Minister of Development. This is the first time such a plan has happened. In the past, special residency commissions were being collected. These commissions determined the priorities of the sectors and identified the issues that needed to be reflected in the plan, but in addition to that -- as I said -- for the first time, local participation has been made and the local priorities have been reflected in the plan. Dear friends, the second important issue: What was the point of the plan at such a time? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about this. Yeah, we're going through a time when the uncertainty is pretty intense. The global crisis still exists. There's a process of change and transformation in the world very quickly. On the other hand, the special segment is particularly heavy, while the public continues to shrink, becoming more of a regulatory and controlling form. At a time like this, you can say: "What is the need for such a plan in an environment where the private sector is so powerful? " In fact, at a time like this, we need a plan, when the private sector is very powerful, we need a plan. At a time when the public is heavy, it's public enterprises that are going to make this decision in countries where the public is heavy, and they're going to do these practices, and they're going to be public economic initiatives, and they're going to be other public enterprises and corporations, but the private sector needs to know what the government is thinking about, what the government wants to do, what its priorities are, what it needs to focus on, what it can increase competitiveness in the field. In this respect, especially at a time like this, I think it's very important that the plan is prepared and that it's a guiding structure for the privates. Why do I think? You, as a government, as a public institution and institutions, may prefer a job-based structure, or you might prefer a technology-based structure, but I think the special part that sees this picture will adapt to it itself. Another event is intended for public institutions and organizations. Yes, this plan will be based on its goals and goals, and our public institutions and organizations will also prepare their strategies, and they will prioritize their priorities within the framework of these strategies. This, in a sense, will be a guiding quality for the private sector. Now, dear friends, another member of parliament, in addition to these, why are we in the 87th place at the Human Development Index? Even though we are still the 16th largest economy in the world, he asked why the 87th ranking? Let me put it this way, my dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has nothing to do with this, and we need to understand that. To understand that, of course, you need to know the data used in the Human Development Index. Evaluation of over 25 years old, the Justice and Development Party has been in power for ten years. I mean, when we came to power, a 15-year-old boy just got into that index. So it's not a problem that can be solved in the short and middle term. Therefore, the EC is more responsible and responsible for the governments before us than for it. Again, some criticism of privatisation has been voiced. Yeah, well, maybe we're breaking up about privatisation. We follow policies in favor of privatisation, and we think that these privatisation policies are for the good of this country.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0067par0175	Who are you separating from, Mr. Elton?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0066par0176	We're separating from BDP, sir, let me express it specifically. Again, in this frame, I didn't mean the Republican People's Party, let me put it another way. A question was asked as to why there is no TKI in the syringe. Yes, there is no TKI in Şırnak because we want more jobs, because we want more production. There are perhaps 25 to 30,000 tonnes of coal produced annually in Şırnak at the time of the TİKİ. The amount of production will rise to 1.2 million tonnes in the coming period. This means employment; this means production; this means development of the country; this means development of the country. Again, a review of TOKI. Yes, so far we have produced 589,298 dwellings through TOKI. Who did we make these for? We made it for our poor citizens, we provided it for our low-income citizens. Shouldn't we serve our low-income citizens, not want our citizens to own their homes? There's really no way to understand that either. The other thing about GAP... is that our friends really need to look at their investments in GAP in particular, and they need to know about it. In the last five years, we've transferred 15 billion TL to the Southeast Anatolia Project. It's actually 18 billion dollars, but the amount used, the amount spent is 15 billion dollars, and when we divide it by five, we see a 3 billion TL source spent a year on the Southeastern Anatolia Project, $3 billion. Well, we need to know what the picture was, what the painting was, and we need to see it, too. In the pre-EC PARTY period, there was an average investment of only 300m euros per year. So what? We've spent 10 times more on the Southeast Anatolian region. So, what have we done? Look, we've increased the watering area from 270,000 hectares to 377,000 hectares. Again, we've launched the main irrigation channel for 843 kilometers. Again, we have completed 13km of the 18km Suruç Tunnel. And in the collection area, there's a very different picture. In earlier times, the total amount of land collected across Turkey was 500,000 hectares of friends, 500,000 hectares. Right now, we've only gathered 1.2 million hectares of land in the GAP region, and by the end of this year, about 2 million hectares of land will be massed in the GAP region. Think about it. We've done exactly four times the sum totalization all over Turkey for the Southeast Anatolian region. And I'd like to give you just one example of education: the pre-school education rate in the Southeast Anatolian region is only 3 per cent of the schooling rate in pre-school education in the previous period; in our era, that's up to 55 per cent, friends, pre-school education rate. I think you'll find we're different from the others. Dear friends, again, one of the other things that has been brought up here, and perhaps is being criticised, is the emergence of an approach that says that the trends in the world are not considered during this plan. On the contrary, in this plan, especially in the preparation of this plan, the trends in the world have been analysed in detail. Changes in growth and production axis, changes in financial markets and capital trends, scientific and technological developments, international trade and integration movements, changes in the European Union, demographic structure. Which is, in terms of demography, especially the fertility rate, I would like to say one very brief thing: Dear friends, right now, for us, especially in the Aegean region, in the Marmara region, in the Central Anatolia region, especially in our western regions, is now less fertile than in the developed countries of Europe. We need to be aware and aware of this, and in this framework we already have the necessary measures taken in our tenth Plan. Again, I continue: changes in both Turkey and the world's labour market have been taken into account. Subjects such as environment, energy, have been analysed in detail on both the world and Turkey's scale, the impacts on our country have been established, and a concrete and carry-on plan aimed at 2023 years in this framework has been laid out. When we look at preplandal developments, we see really important reforms in Turkey over the last five or six years. No one should claim that these reforms have not been done, and no one should make us forget that these reforms have been done again. There's been talk of justice, and we've done some very important reforms in the field of justice, dear friends. We've made basic laws, such as the Law of Debts, Law of Laws, Turkish Trade Law, Law of Liaison in Laws, and in this period, we've passed a very large, comprehensive fundamental law. Again, with the fourth judicial package, the activation of justice and judicial services has been provided, strengthening basic rights and freedoms. Very important investments have been made in criminal execution institutions and prisons and courthouse buildings. The infrastructure of the National Judicial Network Project has been completed. The Constitutional Court has been granted an individual application. The Human Rights Association of Turkey was founded. Outside of justice, again, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make it very brief, because there were statements that the revenue distribution had deteriorated and worsened. Despite this global crisis in the world, Turkey has improved revenue distribution, even though there have been serious disruptions in revenue distribution, including all developed countries in the world. Yes, you may despise the reduction of the Gini coefficient from 0.40 to 0.38, but falling from 0.40 to 0.38 is a very important development.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0068par0189	What does it matter?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0066par0190	When you look at the developed countries, you see that the Gini coefficients in those countries are increasing, but the Gini coefficient in Turkey, or rather, I'd say, the revenue distribution has improved, and it's the opposite in developed countries. Again, Turkey has become the most unemployed country among the OECD countries during this crisis. Yeah, we've had four million jobs in the last four years. Is there an example of this in developed countries, in the world? Four million jobs in four years.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0069par0192	Population 76 million!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0066par0193	Yeah, is there an example of that?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0070par0194	No, no, no!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0069par0195	Compared to those before you, do you have the good fortune?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0066par0196	Yes, dear friends, if you'll excuse me, the Tenth Development Plan is about... of course, the world's developments, the change in Turkey, the development process, the strategy of the Tenth Development Plan, and its priorities. It is set on four basic axes: the first axis is a qualified human and powerful society. An approach based on development and development has been adopted from this center. Whatever sector you prioritize, whatever sector you focus on, the first thing you need to take care of is qualified people, qualified labor. Hence, the Tenth Development Plan has become a qualified person, based on a qualified person. We see that the countries with high-profile labor are more stable, that they are growing faster, and that growth is faster, and that stability is stronger in communities where democracy is strong along with qualified labor. So, of course, we will continue to take steps in the Tenth Plan, which we call structural problems in the matter of basic rights and freedoms, about democratisation, about some problems that still exist in justice. Why is a qualified person important? Look, dear friends, today the United States attracts the most qualified people in the world, from China, India, Turkey. Here we have prepared a programme under the Tenth Plan to increase the number of qualified people in Turkey, to bring our people abroad from America, England, Germany to Turkey, and to attract even many, many, many, qualified foreigners to Turkey, if necessary. With this program, especially in this particular area of human beings, there will be extensive, very detailed studies in the coming period. Again, one of the first in this plan is to open a separate subsection for fundamental rights and freedoms -- a plan for fundamental rights and freedoms -- for the first time in a plan. Look at the nine past plans, that's not the case, but in this plan, a special chapter on basic rights and freedoms has been opened, and a very special, very powerful emphasis has been made on this area. The second axis is innovative production and stable high growth. You know, in the past decade, there have been significant measures that have provided stable growth, and our economy has been established on solid ground. In this plan, the macroeconomic stabilisation of its protective and sustainable sword has been taken care of. So, what do we mean by innovative production, what do we aim to do? We aim, dear friends: We want Turkey to be a country that produces knowledge and technology. And we don't just want that, we want a country that's not enough information and technology for us, we want a country that's going to make this information and technology worth adding. Again, we say that we want Turkey to be the base of innovation with the Tenth Development Plan. Again, very important programs have been revealed. I'm running out of time on these programs, but I'm going to mention it very briefly. Our third axis is habitable spaces and sustainable environment. When we call it habitable locations, it is not right to only associate it with the environment or to associate it with a specific sector. Living spaces have a multi-dimensional perspective, a multidimensional perspective. When we look at the last ten years, it's about 7 per cent of our population growth rate, about 14 per cent, the rate of population growth in our cities. More or less, there is an increase in cities twice as large as our total population growth. Therefore, we need to do extensive, especially intensive work on our cities. We think a lot of extensive work should be done from education infrastructure to health, culture to social facilities, to recreation sites, and I think the priorities in this framework are in the plan. Again, reducing the gaps in intergalactic development, increasing competitiveness in our regions, particularly in the backward areas, is also one of the priorities of our plan. The fourth axis is international cooperation for development. This chapter includes our basic priorities and policies, including external dynamics of development and bilateral, regional and multilateral. Dear friends, finally, for the first time in this plan, for the first time, I'd like to talk about programs in the Tenth Development Plan, which have never been planned for development. Why are these programs important? A speaker of ours has just stated that the plan does not include structural problems. If he had looked at these programs, he would have been aware of the importance of structural problems. We've transferred all of our country's structural problems, almost all of its structural problems to this part of the program. What is this program? For example, let's go over this example: for example, the development of domestic savings. Yeah, is it true that domestic savings are low today? It's real. Do we want to increase domestic savings? We do. So, what was done in this plan? A goal was set to increase domestic savings, a goal was set, performance criteria were set, and components of them were established. In addition to this, which agency, which ministry will be responsible for this programme, along with which ministries, if necessary, NGOs will work, these have been established. In a sense, these programs will allow the plan to be implemented, and we think that these structural problems, along with this program, can be achieved in a very comfortable way, in parallel with the resolving of these programmes. So what's in these programs, if you look at it, is the development of business and investment environment. Yes, we still need to work on the development of business and investment, and we still need to make progress. A program was created about this. A program has been prepared to be fully implemented. Again, a reduction of dependency on imports. Aren't we complaining that when our growth performance is high, our imports are high. So we're dealing with a current problem. Aren't we? If we say that, we're going to take structural countermeasures to reduce the dependence on imports, that's what we're going to do. Again, I'd like to give examples of these programs. Another example is the productivity enhancement program. For us, efficiency is extremely important. We have to increase our production capacity. Again, our firms have to compete with powerful firms outside. High-tech products need to be produced by our companies. See, in the 2002-2007 period, there was a positive development in total factor efficiency, while we did not see a positive development after 2007. This shows how important the production efficiency programme is, and the problems that are happening here also need to be resolved through this program. Again, what we see as a problem is the activation of water use in agriculture. Some of our regions face desertification in Turkey. These measures need to be taken, which is taken by our ministries, but these are the programmes that need to be done, which involve more than one ministry, more than one organisation, and very comprehensive analysis. So, again, I think that through this program, we're going to be able to get our water resources into a more efficient, efficient structure. Another important issue is structural transformation in health industries. In the long run, we want Turkey to be a global drug, RD and production center. See, that's the kind of program we need to make it happen. So, thanks to this program, we'd like to further develop and enhance the drugs, the RD and the production centers that will contribute to our country's exports, our country's development. As I end my speech -- I have no more time -- I thank our Minister of Development, all the bureaucrats of our Ministry of Development, and all the representatives of the public institution and organization, all the citizens who contributed to the plan. I wish the tenth Plan to be good for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0071par0218	Thank you. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who asked for a personal word on the first chapter.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0072par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the first chapter of the Tenth Development Plan, 476 rows. I salute the grand jury. First of all, I'd like to thank all of my old co-workers and those I don't know who have been working on this plan. Now, there's one thing I particularly want to express: The Second Section of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey bears this title under the title "Economic Judgments." Title No. 1: planning; economics and Social Council. • The old title was already planned. This is where the Economic and Social Council will be established, and they will be regulated by law. The Economic and Social Council actually created you from the story. In the amendment, you had to put something next to it in order to do what you wanted in the judiciary, and you put it in. Mr. Congressman, how do you say such a thing as a former planner? You might say, but I'll tell you one thing: Who are the institutions that can take part in this Economic Council? TOBBB. Who's one of the agencies that can take part? TESK. Who's the other, other agency? Turkey's Union of Agriculture Rooms. You use them to soften the citizens' heart to the PKK. Why haven't you collected it yet? Where's the law? Where's his bill? DPT went into a different area when his name was Department of Development? Why didn't you, why didn't you bring it from 2010? Because, in fact, it's not, you think differently, and I want to express it first. You have to be sincere, first of all. The plan makers are making all the effort -- red tape down there -- but your intentions are important as an AK PARTY. What did a friend of yours just say here? He said, "We want this plan, let society own it." Where are the MPs? How many of the 326 MPs are here? What part of this plan did you take for granted as the AKP? He's down there preparing some balances, coming up. No matter what happens in time, no matter what happens in the future. The Economic Social Council has no bill, no merit. Are we too weak to draft an entire Ministry bill? I said what I needed to do with the executives of the institutions that could enter the Economic Social Council. Can't you, as the Council of Ministers, do anything? What do you do for the PKK and its followers instead of sending them away? Go to the people, we will negotiate the future of the land with the Imralı. Can't you say that? Tell me. This plan, this bill, does not meet the requirements written in this Constitution, Minister. Why am I saying this? Look, in the plan, what are you going to do with the national savings, you're going to increase it. During the AKP period, national savings have fallen from 24 per cent of the illegitimate domestic population to 11 per cent of the private sector. This is what's in your documents. Have you acted in accordance with the Constitution? Not at all. On the other hand, look what you're saying:...it's also in the Constitution.....that restores balance in external payments. In your era, outside payment balance, there's a $550 billion foreign trade deficit, close to $350 billion in current transaction deficits. You acted contrary to the Constitution. It's clearly written here. This written text is a text that you must abide by as law, a text that the entire Turkish nation must abide by. You walked away from it. An excuse for all things, the world's conjuncture was appropriate, it was not suitable. It will be appropriate, and it will be inappropriate, and you will try to do so in all circumstances. An excuse for everything. Here is the second paragraph of Article 166 of the Constitution, which says that you will take an increase in national savings. What did you do? You've reduced from 24 to 12 percent of the domestic product rate. You'll take the balance of the payments. He says you'll take the measure. Once again, I repeat, foreign trade deficit is $550 billion, current transaction deficit is $300-350 billion. Where did you meet the requirements of the Constitution? Where's the interest lobby in that? According to the prime minister, their income increased five times in our time. Who are these saddlers, those that grow, those that expand? Go out there, say it, say it, say it, say it, say it. Tell me, don't whistle in the dark. Who are these semirans in your time? Who did you cooperate with? Who took advantage of it? When you say a word, you'll think about it, who's going to say it? Look, there's a consumer law going on up there -- we're in the subcommittee -- what's power doing? He's still trying to rough up the consumer with his world-class, consumer-crushed financial cut. It's written there, we've had our talks, and tomorrow we'll write about our opposition. Is that even possible? Besides, the ministers don't know each other. Look, the national income, before the first quarter was announced, all of you, all of you, about the ministers, were not hopeful about the work, about the growth of about 3%. Three percent growth, and you're surprised. They said it differently a day or two ago. You know what everyone's doing now, Mr. Secretary? And when we say, "Where did this growth come from?" I say, "Glory be to you, whoever is responsible for this work, Cevdet effect, Babacan effect... they tell it, so it goes on and on." So why don't you go out and explain it to the community, and that's what's behind it, and let everyone know. Look, the State Planning Agency, or the Department of Development, as it's called now, when you look at it, it's fallen out of the economy; let me be clear. The guys over there are doing it again, and you're back in line in the economy. I don't want to say anything like that to your Grace, but we're colleagues. They just spoke here about the Midterm Program. Now, you've never been able to bring the Moderate Programme on time, you've put forward the date, even though you have no authority, under the law. Of course, you take into account the world's developments, and you can't predict them, and you don't know what you're going to do. Four or five months later, you put in the budget call on the same day, you put in the other ones. But it's a difficult job, it's not the right job, Minister. Now that you've brought the plan, where are the subspecies of this, if you like your God? Who will I ask when I see if the plan is right or wrong, if you love your God? Who'd you give it to so far? He's not here. I've come to the plan budget, no, it's not here. Look, we found out I was going to talk today, this document just got here, it's just been distributed. This is the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but -- Mr. Minister, thank you, you've shown kindness, we've already been unable to participate in a conversation, we've expressed our apologies, but -- there's got to be something serious about these things. Now we'll consider the Gini coefficient in Turkey, whether it's 30,000 dollars per person. You're comparing it here, you're coming as the AKP Group. On the other hand, tomorrow you will begin to prepare the Medium Time Program. Are you going to use the numbers you're based on here, or are you going to change them? Just make a commitment here, let's know what you're gonna do. I want to make it clear that you've made this country an import paradise. The industrialist is in extremely bad shape. The farmer bought the animal for $7,000, he can't sell the animal for $3,000. We're traveling, you're traveling, but you've changed your way of protecting yourself, they've even started protecting you from the water. Now, it's possible to continue, not enough time. Look, why don't you just circulate the special admissions commission reports and everything? Those who are involved are e-mailing us that the bills from the government don't work, that they're here with what's written there. I'm calling them, and I'm saying, not us, but the address, the government... you're gonna look at them like that. I'm finishing my speech here for the time being. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0073par0243	Mr. President, can I explain something to you? You're protecting yourself from under water. It's said that I need to explain it, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0074par0244	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0073par0247	Yes, you're just defending yourself under water, our esteemed MP. He made a statement like that. Of course, he probably said something like that because it's out in the media.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0075par0248	Minister, is he the only one who touched you?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0073par0249	Wait a second... don't get excited, you don't mean anything by yelling, just calm down.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0075par0250	Was he the only one who touched you?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0076par0251	Just hear me out!
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0073par0252	We can talk in peace and quiet in this House, no need to shout.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0075par0253	I didn't scream.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0073par0254	Why are you yelling so loud? It's not normal for me.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0075par0255	No, if it's any harm, the President would've stopped me. I don't need you to warn me.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0073par0256	Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll decide for myself what to explain, you don't dictate.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0075par0257	I won't allow it, Mr. President will.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0073par0258	There's been a story in some media outlets today that I've been protected by underwater cops, something that has nothing to do with the truth. In my hometown, I attended a festival in Solhan County. We have a beautiful natural presence called the Swimming Islands, where divers came in for demonstrations and did activities, as if they were the police protecting me... from the Doğan News Agency. I had it checked, no problems from the locals, no news from the locals, but someone looked at a picture, filled it with their own dreams, and unfortunately, they served it to the media, as if someone had come to protect me, as if their underwater divers had come. I guess that's the kind of news that needs to be read in communications schools. People who don't have reporters there, who don't have their own reporters, sit around doing news like this, and they come to our coven and they're expressed around here. I've been promised to express my regret about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0077par0260	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Continue]] Mehmet Mush is the Istanbul MP who asked for a personal word on the first chapter.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0078par0268	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Tenth Development Plan, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to talk about what the concept of the concept of uplifting is, what the phenomenon is. Like any social concept, there are some confusions in meaning, confusions in perception, in the definition of the concept of getting up. In particular, after World War II, the concept of being moved into a phenomenon has passed through various fields, through various evolutions, reaching its definition today. I'd like to start with how development is defined in phase one. Dear lawmakers, in traditional economics, development has been described as an increase in the total national income over a long period of time, measured. Later, the second period begins when this is not a sufficient measurement, and the increase in the total national income in the country does not reflect the welfare of society, and it begins to be measured as a national income per capita. After the second period, we see a shift in definition from national income per person to imbalances in income injustice, and a reduction of poverty per person, since it has been realized that development can't be fully expressed by the measurement of national income per person. At the final stage, the concept we use today is the concept of human development, and here, not only is it an economic doctrine, but it has also gained a social and political presence. At this point, I particularly want to refer to the Human Development Index. The Human Development Index, the Human Development Index, is a human index calculated by applying coefficients equally, including income, life expectancy and education. The index we had as Turkey in 2000 was 0.645. There's a range between zero and one, and as we get closer to one, human growth grows stronger, and as we get closer to zero, the country's Human Development Index weakens. We were 0.645 in 2000, the world was 0.639 in this period, and the European and Central Asia average was 0.709. When we come to 2012, we take our Human Development Index to 0.722, the world comes to 0.694, and the European and Central Asia average comes to 0.771. The improvement in the Human Development Index of Europe and Central Asia average is 9 per cent, while we have 12 per cent. When we look at it from another angle, in 2000, Turkey's Humanity Development Index was 90 percent in Europe and Central Asia, so as of today, it's up to 94 percent, so it's not a relapse, it's actually a improvement in the Humanity Development Index. Of course, it's hard to get this index much higher in a short amount of time, but from 2000, to 2012, when we compare it with the world, we can see that the scissors are much closer here than when we compare them to Europe. Dear lawmakers, at the point of development, I regret to say that there had been a variety of development waves in the world. One was the development wave of countries such as America, France, England, in modern times. Unfortunately, we missed this development process. Then, especially after World War II, a wave of development took place in the world, led by Japan and Germany. We also missed this wave of development, and finally, after 1960, there was a wave of development in the world that captured countries like South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and we missed this development wave, and I regret to say, again, we missed it. Now, during our ten-year mandate, we're working at the point of being the world's leading country on the one hand, to cover the difference in these development waves that we're missing, on the other hand, in IT, to compete with the world in the field of high technology, even in the world. Dear lawmakers, Turkey, especially with its stability over the past decade, has some basic criteria for being a first-class economy, and Turkey has captured these indicators that will allow it to be a first-class developed economy in these criteria. I'd like to present a few of these to you. Look, valuable lawmakers, one of the biggest handicaps in countries at the point of becoming a developed economy is inflation, which is considered a chronic problem. We reduced inflation from 68 percent in 2001 to 6 percent today. Another key indicator is interest rates in the country. These interest rates were still 60 per cent in 2002, and as of today, they are down to 5 to 6 per cent. Dear lawmakers, again, we have controlled public spending with strict financial policies, and we have reduced the total debt of the country's risk-making debt from 78 per cent to 36 per cent. This poses a serious risk for the countries, and this has now reached a desired point in our march to become our great economy. Another is the proportion of the foreign currency genre in total public debt -- unfortunately, that's not very expressable, not very common -- but especially in total public debt. See, in 2002, 58 per cent of the total public debt was foreign currency. Here, the public's debt increased by threefold if the dollar increased from $670 to $1,700,000 at that time. The public was at a very serious risk of wooing. At the point where we're here today, we've reduced it to 27 percent in ten years. When you take into account the currency reserves we have, today the country is free of the risk of a possible courtship, such as the risk of a strike, a factor that will affect the country deeply has now disappeared. Another is the issue of whether the interest, which poses a very serious risk to countries, is fixed interest or variable interest. When we first came to power, 55 per cent of the total public debt was variable interest, 55 per cent was a serious risk factor, which is now reduced to 40 per cent. Dear MPs, we have prepared the Tenth Development Plan, as a result of all these policies. The tenth Development Plan, which includes our economic strategies covering the 2014-2018 period, is in line with the vision of 2023 and is a road map of it. Again, this program is designed as a powerful social policy, a powerful plan. Dear lawmakers, any social behavior is based on intent and will. The tenth Plan of Development is a intent, a statement of intent. It is the will that will bring success to those goals, the goals that we express, and the will that will bring them into existence. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, this has been stated before me. While the plan was being prepared, he was prepared with a participating approach. About 3,000 people, 3,000 of our citizens, sector representatives, were prepared to take ideas from the public, from other parts of the community, and their views were focused on the plan, and they were prepared to be touched down to the very nuanced detail of the plan. See, the valued lawmakers, our Tenth Development Plan, sit on four main hairs: one is qualified human or qualified labor, strong society; the other is innovative production, stable high growth; the other is habitable places, sustainable environment, and the last one is international cooperation for development. We see in the Tenth Development Plan, which will continue reforms in areas such as individual rights and freedoms, democratisation, justice, basic health and education services, in areas such as employment, to promote individual and social qualifications and competence in a strong society. Another is the proportion of research and development resources, especially in order for our products to become high-tech products. See, in order to be a first-class economy here, these RD studies need to be increased in order to produce high-tech, add-on products. As of today, the rate of RD spending is 0.86 per cent, and it is planned to increase to 1.8 per cent in 2018. Again, from 43.2 per cent to 60 per cent of the private sector, local patents are expected to increase from around 4,500 to 16k. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you a very important percentage here: the share of high-tech sectors in manufacturing exports is 3.7 per cent today, and at the end of 2018, this will be raised to 5.5 per cent. If exports are calculated for $277 billion, the increase there can be seen in a better way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I, the Tenth Plan of Development, wish our good fortune, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0079par0288	Thank you. Talks on part one of the plan are complete. Now, we begin negotiations on part two of the plan. The second chapter consists of parts of the Plan's Basic Purposes and Principles, the Plan's Goals and Politics. Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on the second chapter.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0080par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party over the second part of the Tenth Development Plan, the five-year development plan. I salute you all. First of all, let me underline a point that we find positive. Of course, the fact that this plan was a little more participatory than previous plans has been observed is a delight that the locals' opinion has been included in this plan. The heart wants to prepare for a little more participation. However, Mr. Kaplan, who just spoke on behalf of our party, expressed that we've included the land, everyone, but we've forgotten to include the House, Parliament, and we've left this foot incomplete. I wish the House had been included in planning during the preparation of this plan and had a better chance to come up with a more understandable plan. So when we look at this plan in general -- and the original body of the plan is this second part, this first part, and the third part is a little bit more specific and more specific -- but we're going to be talking about the actual body right now, and we're going to have a chance to express ideas about the body -- we're talking about a fictional, fictional plan. The idealized goals are set, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one will be very good. However, when you look at this from the reality window, when you look at this plan, the data in Turkey unfortunately does not show it. For example, one of the references says: "We, as the target of 2023, aim for an economy of $2 trillion. We will be one of the ten major economies of the world as we express it. " In order for this to happen, all the developed countries in the present, all the developing countries, all the developing economies, must be put on stone. I don't know if this government is capable of this or not. We don't know if the developing economies, which are competing with them, have a stone attached to their feet, but in order to achieve that goal -- let's say you've reached $2 trillion -- in order for that to happen, others have to take a step back, so other economies have to shrink. In phase one, the first target shows that this program, this plan, is fictional. Now, let me first share their goals with you. The second important point is that we will increase the employment of women to 34.9 per cent. This is the target of 2018. So five years later, she aims to increase her employment to 34.9%. Even if you do, it's not a realistic target because that's not what you're expected to do. For the past two years, your ministries have said that while they're planning their own plans, they're going to take up their gender quota while they're doing their own budget, and they're going to raise the target. However, while you're expressing it here, by relying on flexible work, by applying women to the flexible working criteria, we will be able to reach that goal relative to you. So, we're saying you're going to do it by expanding the exploitation mechanism by producing new imaginary pens. You've set a target of like $25,000 per person's GDP. In a moment, I'll be able to explain to you whether or not this is going to happen in terms of interstate inequality. Unemployment is 9.2%, which is TİİK data, which is debated at every stage whether it is healthy or not. In the meantime, while you are calculating the unemployment pencil, you are doing a computation on applications to İSKUR in the last three months. In Turkey, however, the number of people who have lost hope of finding employment -- most of which are young, college graduates -- is over 1,200,000. Since 1,200,000 people have lost hope of finding employment, they are no longer remembered in unemployment statistics because they no longer apply. You're talking about the applicants. When you include this number, the unemployment rate in Turkey, as of today, is 14 per cent, most optimistic. You say: "We will draw it to 7.2 percent. We will see together whether or not it will happen." With today's data, unemployment in young people is 16.5%; you're saying you're going to pull it up to 13 percent. You're saying you're going to increase paid employment from 64 per cent to 70 per cent. You're saying we're going to draw the unemployment rate from 37.5 per cent to 30 per cent. In fact, when you give this pen this data, you also make a confession. So, in the current case, when you look at the situation of data-based unemployment and people working in the present, we see a complete exploitation scheme, a cheap labour market. How does the government do it? It's a subcontractor. Most of the people who work in Turkey, unfortunately, are minimum waged, and a significant part of them, in the current case, reach this figure within the framework of the interim employment programmes provided by the Ministry of Labor. It's a total misdirection. Throughout their lifetime, you've created a field of playing statistics by employing unemployed people for nine or six months while they're unemployed. Yeah, well, safety at work is a whole other issue. The number of people who lost their lives during the AK PARTY administrations is now expressed by thousands of people who were killed by business accidents, or rather by job massacres. There's no regulation on this area, no improvements, no references, and unfortunately, you're bringing five years of development to the agenda of the House, but as we speak here, there are still workers in this country whose bodies haven't even been removed from the mines as we speak. No mention of that. There's also a fantasy about the economy's external goals. You know, the Prime Minister's last visit to Washington had two primary targets. One of these goals was Turkey's partnership with the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. This was one of the talks headers, but I'm afraid you came back empty-handed about it. The second point -- it's not very connected to our case, so I won't go into it in detail -- was regional developments, Syrian policy. You came back empty-handed there, but especially because of the headlines of the development program, it is necessary to express that Turkey is pursuing a dream in the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. The same is true in European Union policy, and the same is true in customs union policy. You've broken most of the strategic agreements under the Customs Union Agreement in the past period with the bag of laws. One of the last deals you drilled was about buying planes. Therefore, you are no longer a trusted partner in the European Union. As far as Bric countries are concerned, there is no position for you to be involved. Eurasia, therefore, is not possible to create a partnership with the Shanghai Five -- which is now being referred to as a higher number -- again. You're going around, you're going to look at your territory. In your area, as a business partner, you're completely at odds with the countries you're going to be based on. So, you've built a building on ice, with all the outside goals of this plan sitting on ice; the only thing that can hold on to external targets is to adjust your relationships with your partners in the region; and the only way to regulate it and correct it is to expand your democracy. If you expand democracy, in terms of democratisation, if you can be a role model for democracy to countries in the region -- which is in the process of restructuring -- you can be a trade partner in this field, you have a chance here, you have no choice but to do so. Now, we're going to eliminate the injustice of the income distribution. There's a claim like this in the plan. How do you eliminate it? When you first came to power, the number of dollar billionaires in Turkey was four, today 43. So this will probably be 63 in 2018, if we calculate at this rate of increase. 46.7 per cent of the richest 20 per cent income in Turkey. The poorest percentage of income in Turkey is 5.8 per cent. How do you turn it off? If you're going to make a socialist revolution, let's support you, support you if you're going to nationalize it, but none of this is in your goals, at least not in the plan. I'd like to share with you a few statistics on the equivalent household income. Istanbul and its environment receive 14.873 liras in the current situation, Izmir and its environment 12,924, and the area I belong to is 5.418 east of Turkey. Let me get these statistics straight, Mr. Secretary, and we didn't produce that number, we got it from the program that we put in front of you. Marmara plus Izmir -- I'd like to say the distribution of the value of addition is TL based on -- $14.800 to $18,700. The Aegean and the Western Mediterranean are between $10,500 and $1400. Central Anatolia, Central and East Black Sea region between $8,500 and $10,500. Maraş, Malatya, Antalya, Adıyaman, Elazığ belt, i.e. these cities, there's a share of between $5,800 and $8,500. The eastern cities of this country are between $4,300 and $5,800. I mean, it's a dollar-based figure, and it says, "We're going to reach the $25,000 target, but the current average is about $10,200." This is the average of Turkey, but when you look at the region based, the share in the Marmara region is between 16 and 17,000 shares in the eastern part of this country, between 4,000 and 4,300 dollars. When you look at the development pencils of the regions, the development pencils of areas that are in a high-level development course, are industrial and agriculture, the lowest pen services. So, the lowest data that contributes to the development of these regions is the service pen. The least developed areas are all services. I'll share the information on this service pen with you, but before you do, let me share this. I mean, when the west of this country is so advanced, there's a joke about how far back the east is, there's gotta be a joke. Doesn't the East work, doesn't the east of this country really work, doesn't it add anything to this country's added value? Let me put it this way: Turkey's energy, Turkey's mine, Turkey's electricity, the warehouse of Turkey's cheap labor force, this underdeveloped area. You get the electricity here, you get the mine here, you get the oil here, but for some reason, it's the least developed area. Now, dams are being built everywhere, and when dams are being built, people are told: For example, in Ilisu, the villagers went and got signatures, and if we build dams here, you'll be employed here." It's been said. One of Turkey's largest dams and old dams met 15 per cent of Turkey's electricity when Keban first came into production. How many people work at the Keban Dam? There's 60 people working at maximum. So, where did you move the energy you produced in Keban? You moved it to Marmara. Then you turn around and refer to the electric bills of the eastern provinces. Oil revenue pen: For example, the oil produced in Batman and around him contributes 2.5 billion dollars to the energy revenue in Turkey. So, does Batman get a piece of this? If he had a share, he could have been at least one Izmit. Because Izmit is not as much a contributor to the Turkish economy as Batman, based on raw materials. It's not exploitation, but what is it? That's got to be a name. It's the same weirdo that's going on about the GAP project, about the GAP project. Let me put it bluntly: You have completed all of Turkey's available projects in favour of the western regions of the Gap. So all the projects targeted on the basis of electricity production are over, you've only done 17 percent of the watering project. Why is that? Don't we have the right to ask? A moment ago, Mr. Elvan boasted, proudly expressed that in the last five years, 15 billion dollars, we've transferred to the GAP project in the last four years. Mr. Hasip has stated that you transferred 15 billion dollars and built a 1km channel. Where in God's name did you transfer this money? Plus, where did you get that money and transfer it? You took the money from the unemployment fund, which was the sweat of the worker in Turkey, the worker in Turkey, and you put it there. You took the money from the people in this country, put it in the other pocket, didn't invest there. Now, there's an amenities, and I don't want to make it too clear.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0081par0314	Meat, meat.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0080par0315	But they say, "Slow it down so the chicks can eat it." Now, with the size of those services coming into the region -- I've just established the difference of development -- I'm going to share some numbers with you, the revenues, the investments in the region -- service investments, public investments. 60 per cent of the income that goes to my class is about military and security spending. 56% of the income to Hakkari is security, or service, security service; Şırnak 46 per cent, Siirt 37.5 per cent, Diyarbakır 30 per cent. These are the percentages of the revenues going to those cities related to military and police spending. Another bizarre statistic: urban development in Turkey is evaluated in five categories. Those in the 5th category are the most developed cities, and then they are ranked as less developed and less developed provinces towards 1. Guess what number of cities I'm ranking are in Turkey's development rating? These provinces I listed are expressed within the 4th group. Mr. Minister, Bingol is in on this.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0082par0319	No, you're wrong.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0080par0320	No, our Commissioner, Mr. Demiröz, knows very well because Bitlis is in the fourth group. I mean, the police station there is a service to those people.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0082par0321	Let's talk about that later.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0080par0322	We have a very serious problem with the off-the-book economy. There's no reference to how you're going to get ahead of the off-the-book economy. In Turkey, it is called an off-the-book economy, but the mules come to mind. Last time, you loaded the mules with human bodies. The last time you loaded human bodies into these mules. Look, you're taking into account the off-the-book trade with mules on the border, you're saying, but you're not interested in the big fish that escape in the ports. If you want to prevent the informal economy in Turkey, you will control your ports. There are two methods for poor peasants at border length to deal with trade if you want to register: one of these methods is that you will either take the border trade zones along the border as a free zone, or you will distribute the border trade card to the villagers in those villages. If you do so, you will register it, but I repeat, the trade on the backs of mules in border villages is not one thousandth of a thousandth of the trade off the books. You'll look at ports, you'll look at smuggling in ports; if you can control it, you'll have a chance to control it. One of the first things the investor from abroad noticed was Turkey's justice mechanism. I won't go into detail because Mr. Hasip has been very thorough, but every investor who comes is first questioning Turkey's justice mechanism. Because since your governments have passed daily laws by the bag of laws, you don't have a reliable economic structure for an outside investor. Long trial, et cetera, I'm keeping them out of it. If you want to do this, you're going to have to stop making this day-to-day law or changing the law, and you're going to give up the bag of laws. About urbanization... we have a TOKI, we have a ministry, wherever God sees a field, a building is coming. None of our cities have IDs. Can you tell me? Please, for God's sake, one of you can come out here and say: "This village, this town of ours, this district of ours, has this architectural identity." Can you say that? You turn everything into concrete piles and then you call it modern urbanization. There is no green, there is no common use; the city is equipped with busy intersections and overpasses and subgates, especially and especially for the use of special vehicles. This would not be called.................................................................................................... If anyone in the world wants to see a bad example of urbanization, they'll probably be traveling through Turkey's cities by now. You have to let it go. There's no reference to localization -- not anywhere -- that the local initiative is going to stand out in this program, in this plan. Whereas the local initiative should have been prominent, you should have referred to decentralisation. But I don't mind. You will prepare 221 pages of programming, you will put it in, not once will the word "democracy" pass.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0083par0328	It's been gone six times.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0080par0329	After that, we have made a program that values human basic rights and freedom. A program this allergic to the concept of democracy, of course, doesn't care much for localization or the will of the locals. I'd wait, you've made such a big city law, I'd expect you to take localization a little more seriously. You're supposed to put some structures that could be the basis of the local initiative, the spread of democracy directly, but it's not there. Finally, I'm going to make a few emphasises on education. Both in the programme and in the Minister's speech in the Plan and Budget Commission, there was the concept of a dedicated human being. So, there's a person who's not qualified! First of all, you don't get qualified, you don't get unqualified. If you can reveal human qualities, you have a skill. Every man has a quality, but it's a job to be able to bring out a quality that can reveal those people's abilities. If the program is unqualified, why do you call people non-principal? The program is unqualified, politics unqualified, people aren't qualified. You have to expose him. You made a bet on 4+4+4, and you said: "We will meet the need for intermediaries in Turkey. Please share with us the data from this year's vocational high schools. If you've uncovered it, you haven't removed it, put it in the middle. Increased efficiency is based on this condition. One last sentence, I'd like to say, is that you say we're going to increase efficiency in production. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order to increase efficiency, you have to rely on job security, but you put it on the shelf, it'll come on Wednesday or Thursday. You sent out the employment of occupational security experts, and you passed the law. In order to increase efficiency, you have to have job security, you have to employ occupational security experts, but you put them on the shelf. What do we know about that? If they answer that question soon, they will say: "There are not enough experts in Turkey. " The Commission has recorded statements, Turkey has sufficient experts on the issue, but since the employer is unwilling to give money, they are now violating the law because they cannot work cheaply. On Wednesday or Thursday, he brings this, and that's our headline. There's a lot more to say, but we're out of time. After all, we need to look forward to the future with hope. I have the feeling that the future of Turkey will not be just this program, this plan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0084par0338	Thank you. The first speaker, Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, who asked on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter, is İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0085par0341	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the second chapter of the Tenth Development Plan, number 476, which is being discussed. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. A country's short, medium and long-term plans must first be reliable. Of course, it should be ambitious, and after that, it should be met with a wave of excitement by the communities that it has benefited from and benefited from. If the plan document can contain these detections and predictions, then a document, which we call success, is the fact that the previous plan goals have been met and that the policies brought together for those great purposes are connected to each other and that the harmony is complete. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, the picture that we face today is both in the previous plan and in the government's medium-term programs over the years, and we're dealing with documents that have nothing to do with their goals, no interest in them, no ties of economic nature at all. Of course, it's not just a matter of government and the ruling group; this kind of inescapableness of the plan, this failure of this kind, also reveals the problem of trust in the society and a great crisis of trust arises. In fact, every plan and program revealed would have to create a wave of excitement in society. However, this plan that we're talking about -- it's the same as it is today in the General Assembly -- has not been brought here by society, not by economic actors, nor by the people who did it, unfortunately, with any interest. The plan is back from seven years to five years. The interesting thing is that a government planning agency, such as the government planning agency, which has worked hard for this plan, has been clogged with weed for many years during this plan in Turkey, and the institution has been transformed into another name, and eventually has become a ministry. You, as a political will, as a government, if you put your plans in line with the basic goals of the plan, principles, goals of the plan, and if the technical staff below can establish a working and model in line with the purpose of the plan, in the end, efficient, coordinated, economic connections and illusions will emerge. But as in all areas, these long-term plans, unfortunately, have been politicalized after these decisions, almost as if they were a political party program. There is another important issue that arises in the tenth Plan, members of lawmakers, which, unfortunately, is a long-term perspective that will lead to the five-year goals of the plan. Now, why do some of our MPs care so much about that? Look, I'll tell you this: all development plans, as in Turkey's example, have been done for five years, long term, ten years, or longer, are evaluated within a five-year perspective and are endeavored to be carried out as subspecies. We, the National People's Party, for the first time in the Eighth Development Plan, presented a vision and a long-term strategy for 2023. When we put it in at that time, there was a time like twenty-four years in 2023, valued lawmakers. Look, what's interesting is that in this perspective, we were aiming to reach our short and middle-term goals with policies. But when we look at it today, it's ten years to 2023. The interesting thing is that the government is still trying to establish and plan the 2023 perspective. Turkey's long-term plan perspective has been narrowed down. We're narrowed down to a ten-year-old dimension less than a 20-year-old dimension. However, reaching these 2023 goals at the same time does not seem very likely with the targets and policies envisioned in the plan. I'll try to explain why this is happening now. You're aiming for a billion dollars worth of revenue, you're going to have $25,000 per person. You're saying, you have a $500 billion export target, and you've only got ten years to reach these macro targets. Now, in order to achieve their goal of 2023, then you need to give a technical breakthrough and a gas to the vehicle you're in, so the first five years of the plan, or rather the five-year process of Plan Ten, is very important. Because, when we look at the plan, at Plan Ten, at the end of 2018, you're aiming to increase your income per capita to $16,000, and you're going to go from 2019 to 23 to $25,000 with policies that you're going to follow. Now, how this is going to happen, and what programs, what economic growth model, what growth path, what quality growth or sustainable growth will be taken, unfortunately, we don't have any enlightening documents beyond the wishes and wishes of the plan. Dear lawmakers, the unemployment issue is the same. In poll-set labour force indicators, those who are not looking for work at the time are unfortunately not included in this issue. At the same time, having a college explosion everywhere prevents young unemployment, and despite all these factors, there is a failed Plan Nine. When you look at this plan, unfortunately, the unemployment goals you missed in Plan Nine have also appeared in Plan 10 because you haven't been able to cut your unemployment figures for ten years. At the tenth Plan, you also say that the rate of unregistered employment will be reduced from 37.5 per cent in 2014 to 30 per cent in 2018. And that's interesting, because you haven't developed any structural measures for non-registership for ten years, you've made no serious preparations, you've even brought the action plans to peace in a populist rhetoric, and in the end, it will reduce the target of non-responsibility without any practice, without any action. You've taken an unrealistic target. Now, what's interesting here is, as in Plan Nine, is this reduction of the informality, is the source of efficiency in the economy and therefore growth, which needs to be cleared up. It's like there's a hidden target in this document. If so, then it's becoming what we're used to, when the government's behind any unrealistic goal is a source of imaginary informality. Again, the Tenth Plan envisions an average growth of 5.5 per cent annually, while it also predicts 5.8 per cent per year. Now, this is an interesting situation for those who are watching the economy, because it also means that the government is aiming to capture an average growth rate, a growth path, at this rate, according to other developing countries. Any other government could have done that, so it's not just this government. But what's important is that the fact that you have a higher current rate of growth means that you will always be in danger of an external deficit, of an external shock. So the government has made it clear here that it depends on hot money and on external resources. Similarly, your long-term goals for exports do not seem realistic. Although Mr. Prime Minister was able to make an important splash on the wolf with his latest stance, so there was a different pressure on the courtship. Ha, if you're aiming to achieve these goals by increasing value and not by actually producing a worthless Turkish lira, and you're risking the country's future for short-term goals and for political goals, if you're taking long-term goals, it's a job you'll know, unfortunately, it'll happen to this country. Dear lawmakers, the Tenth Development Plan has a stable, high-profile emphasis on growth, and a header has been opened for that. When we look at other countries that maintain high growth rates in terms of years, these countries -- I've just told you -- are able to do that with added value increases, with serious production increases, and with the help of exports of technological products, they can make this growth. So, how does the plan in our country tell us that? We don't see a breakthrough in the technological field in order for this kind of production and export structure to be made. Dear lawmakers, there is an incident where the AKP government raised the rate of R&D spending from 0.60 to 0.92. This may seem like an important leap, but now I'm going to bring you another comparison. However, the government's 2023-year target is 3 percent, so let me specify that as well. The government says I'm going to jump 2.14 a year in seven years without going to a structural change, with policies that have only increased by 0.32 points in seven years, because there are no clues to this kind of policy, to this plan. Dear lawmakers are the engine power manufacturing industry of growing up all over the world. If you support your manufacturing industry, you encourage it indirectly, you open it up, you don't block the investments like you did today, or you don't get rid of the wolves, interest, other elements, shocks, unfortunately, you only get this growth in your dreams. Now, I'm telling you that the export share of the high-tech manufacturing industry has been 5.6% over the past seven years. We've come from this level to 3.7% when we look at it as of 2013. The tenth Plan just has a very inadequate expression, which says: "There is a goal of stopping the decline in the production of high technology." It's such a mild wish that only -- I just said -- it goes beyond the wish and wish at the end of congress. At the end of the planning period, you're making us face a target, even behind Plan Nine, in a situation that you've only set at 5.5 percent. Now, in this case, at the end of the planning period, we see that the government does not reflect on production industry targets, in terms of the numbers it shows. You're looking at it on the one hand, in 2006, it's 17.2 percent of the illegitimate domestic patient, but you can only guarantee that it will come to 16.5 per cent in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with this industrial strategy, it is never, ever possible for you to provide that. We, the National Movement Party, wish that these documents, which we care very much about for our country, are a document that is based on all kinds of political debates, based on the conditions of the country and the world, based on the facts, and we want to see them here, precious lawmakers. Because we think that if our criteria are observed, we will face a more realistic, more reassuring plan for our nation. With that thought, I would like to extend my regards to all of you, wishing that the failure of Plan Nine would not be here.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0086par0365	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0087par0368	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to thank all of them, especially members of the Ministry of Development, members of the Ministry of Development, who have contributed to all of the work, who, as the Minister said, had a civil society, had an academic, even attended by locals. They must have done an important study, of course, but Mr. Elvan was saying here, and I wonder how much they've said, and that's something else. Participation is one thing, considering what you're saying and adding up to the plan is another thing, and I think we should say it in the first place. On this occasion, thank you. But by the way, our friends said that they were comparing the eighth, ninth, tenth plans, so I've said it over and over on this stand, asking for mercy to the State Planning Agency. I'm afraid he's been officially buried along with this plan. We already know that the idea of planning is lost because of the disappearance of the agency and its reflection here. I hereby commemorate the late Alparslan Turkeş, the architect who created this work, and the founder of our party, along with the DPT. That's how his work was buried. Now, there's a very strange theater going on here, folks. This conversation is not being broadcast from anywhere at the moment. You say it's very important. You say it's very important. Our Commissioner says it's very important. Right now, I've brought you the broadcast of TRT 3. Look, what does it say? They have sports programs now, they're out of the archive. Since this afternoon, I mean, I've looked at the program that TBM TV normally aired -- and if you look at it this way -- the weather, the sports bulletin, and now the footage from the archive in 2000. I don't understand what kind of significance you're giving the plan. Mr. Elvan, I think he's gone. He was just telling us, "You don't care." What logic is that? Mr. President, I'm going back to you. Can you tell me the logic that puts it here on Monday at the Council of Counsellor's Board, even though the chairmanship of the Parliament, the president of the TBMM TV, the group's deputy presidents, went and begged him to do so? Here's what you care about the plan. 550 MPs have 1. Is that even possible? What is all of Turkey hearing, which plan is this? How many press conferences has he had that he hasn't heard before? The presidential court election is tomorrow, and if it were done today, your House would be screwed?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0088par0377	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0087par0378	I mean, I'm having trouble understanding it, and if you do, tell me, Mr. Sergeant, I'm yelling because I don't understand. That's a five-year development plan, guys. How many hours do we talk about a budget speech here? Is it being published when we talk about the annual budget? Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0088par0380	In school, you were always yelling, always yelling.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0087par0381	Welcome. You don't know we're shooting here because you don't agree, Mr. Sergeant. Guys, I'm telling you all, this is a plan that you talk about every five years, even every seven years. Since the two legislatures, I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, and this is the first time we've made plans. And what mind, or what group of goblins, is the speech of this plan being put on Monday with the mind of your vice president? You know, the CHP had a gene, and you took it and put it on Friday twice, and our friends got it back. Mashallah, congratulations. You don't need a plan. How many people are listening, Minister? We just had a couple of ministers, and now we have one. Are there any issues related to the interests of all government ministers? I do. Are there issues that concern all Turkey? I do. So, whether they hear it or not, tomorrow we'll count the votes here for fifteen minutes, thirty minutes, forty minutes, while we count them, the television will show them out of here, we'll wander around, they'll broadcast importantly, but a development plan, as the country needs to be a guide in the next five years, I'm afraid I'm offering my websites, my regrets. Whoever orchestrated something like this has already declared that this plan is of no importance, that it will remain on paper. So don't let anyone fool anyone. Now, as he was speaking here, Mr. Secretary mentioned the necessity of the plan. He also said there would be a plan in the free market economy. He said, Mr. Shandır, the vision and philosophy of the plan is missing. Dear friends, there are only a few numbers here about 2023, let alone vision, he doesn't have any strategy. What we're putting in here is a few evaluations and a number of targets. I really don't understand how you can expect others to care about this plan when you don't put it here, when you don't plan it. I mean, okay, it's not the free market economy, it's the planning. Especially when we looked at the cause of the crisis, yes, the basis of the crisis, because of the excessive desire for profit in uncompromised, violent capitalism, and also because of the lack of regulation, lack of control, there was a semantics, and yet you call it a different version, you call it the end of capitalism, but you don't know exactly what you're saying. What I'm trying to say here is that there is such a truth, yes. So, what's the way out of this? So there's no philosophy in the plan. He said, Mr. Şandir, and Mr. Minister says, but we looked inside -- I've expressed it in the commission -- there was a vision section there, and it came out -- I looked at the paragraph inside -- and it occurred to me -- if you read it in our opposition, we briefly evaluated the strategy of 2023 there. Although the Prime Minister has used his name many times, we're looking to see if there's any jealousy. Our friends from the other opposition party have just mentioned that strategy, the long-term strategy was 2001-2023, and there was a vision of what should be done during the republic's 100th year, the measures needed to be taken. Now, it seems to me that the whole episode of vision has been removed to remove that vision. In some studies, maybe they've been used before, and you've imitated them, but there's no way to say it's done today. What do you need here? On the contrary, a counterposition to globalization was needed, with a social dimension, taking into account social areas, such a program needed to be made. As the National Movement Party, we said that in our party programme and in our election declarations, we always called it the smart state, the comedy state, the human-focused state. Mr. Elvan says it's human-focused, but you're even blocking people's freedom of information here.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0089par0387	He's going, he's going.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0087par0388	Is he leaving... anyway, he heard it, it's important he hears it, so let's not talk about it behind his back. You're saying it's human-focused. What's the main thing? Freedom of information in basic rights and freedoms, right? So, what's he gonna hear? For five years, people need to hear your plans, your plans, your policies, right? He needs to hear our reviews, right? You say it's basic and rights and freedoms, that's the weakest part of the plan; there's only one constitutional amendment and something about NGOs and ESK. He's already got a section right behind him, so you put it up for friends to see when they're shopping, so we can put it in there. There's nothing else, look inside, see if you've got a plan. The fact that it's an evaluation like this shows that it's really not important. What it should be is that if you came not only with the strategy until the next 2023, but with a longer-term strategy that would allow Turkey to become superpower, you'd have to re-emerge in 2023, even the targets of 2023 are gone, so even if we were to be able to help you, as you say, with a philosophy called a new civilization based in Turkey, or a philosophy called the will of Turkish-Islam civilization, how much it would be better if we had come up with a good discussion here, if we had supported you in order to see in front of us. We're always defending him, otherwise, there's no way to get rid of any of these goals without creating a strategy that is re-equivocally, mind-oriented, long-term. Now, we're looking at the economic parts -- our friends are drawing -- the previous plans started with macroeconomic frames, the status assessment, Mr. Sergeant, you may not have looked at them, but they were there, they weren't here. Why? I think why? Now, of course, there's a bit of shyness due to this crisis, so it's kind of difficult for our seduced friends to determine the situation. So what do we do? This place is troubled, let's take it off. We can't find any other explanation. Friends, the title of the chapter, it's called high and stable growth, I offer it to you at your mercy. So, Mr. Irony, I'm telling you now, 5.5 percent average growth. It's called a high growth rate. Is it a 5.5 percent growth rate? Oh, if you look at today's crisis, it's 2/, 3/, but it's something called higher growth... look at the mean of the plans in the past, Turkey -- you're in -- has to do a minimum of 7 percent growth in order to reach its leading country target in 2023, it needs to create at least 700-50,000 jobs per year. Now, after you didn't do that, you wrote your name up there, average, which is very optimistic 5.5 percent... we need to make these plans realistic. We don't have a chance of doing it that way for him. Again, we're going to reduce the addiction to Italy. You're saying that, well, our friends have just mentioned it. The plan envisions a value of about 10 per cent Turkish lira. Now, if we continue with this policy anyway, if we continue with this courtship regime, there is no chance of reducing the dependence on imports, and there is no need to look for scapegoats on this bench and on the Commission, the difference of the policy of wooing regime, and we told the Minister above: "You are the government, don't seek excuses, don't look for criminals, come, come, change the regime of worship here, and the Central Bank will relax. There's no way to markets like Turkey can be manipulated by a small amount of transactions, and there's no way to be done. So we become dependent on the outside, our exports, our investment, our production depend on imports. The way this works is clear, but there's no point in pointing our ears out and looking for excuses. Something important here, I said again, I didn't see anything but a few wishes about tourism. I'd like to have a tourism program in one of these 25 transformation programs, where they call them. For the past five years as an Antalya MP, I've been saying that for six years, let the law of tourism be a framework. Mr. Sergeant was just talking, but now we want his support here, all of us. For five years, I said to Mr. Secretary, "I don't object, bring it out, we'll fix it." But here, I told the Minister to have one of these programs on tourism, but it didn't happen either. One of the missing things here is that Mr. Elvan said, "Now, you're a human being, you're a human being, you're a human being." I see there's 25 conversion fields, no training in them. So both qualified human beings... the promise of qualified human beings is not true, but we have to say that it's not true; people are all qualified, they're human beings in the way God created them, but I think something has happened in the definition that we call them the qualitative labor force. I mean, increasing his qualifications, providing some professional skills, we have no objection to that, but there's a definition here. So, what's the main thing about his qualified workforce or the human welfare level? Education. We're looking, and there's no conversion program on education.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0090par0396	There is...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0087par0397	No, no, there are 25 basic reform areas, that's what I'm saying. So, I told you in the Commission, our friends, I think they've removed it, and there's going to be a transformation program in the fundamental policy section, and something's already happened, so the transformation program that's going to be implemented has disappeared. So it's not gonna work, guys, looking for criminals. We don't have a chance to solve these economic, social issues by blaming the interest lobby, blaming the Federal Reserve. There's some work that needs to be done to take responsibility and take structural measures, but with the importance of the plan, I'd like to bring to your attention once again how inadequate the content of the plan is. Otherwise, there's no point in trying to hold on to all of this and try to get rid of responsibility by going back to the president of the Central Bank at some point, and now -- like in the debate of the brakemen, gas guys before -- to put it in the interest lobby. If there is an interest lobby -- the companies are investigating, the SEC is investigating -- if there is something in IMKB, something in the Central Bank, something is required to investigate all of it, Mr. Prime Minister. I think it's the government's job to find them and expose the criminals and do what's necessary. Hopefully, in 2023, it will lead to policies that will help us become the leading country, but I also wish good luck, saying that I have little hope.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit02spe0091par0400	Thank you. Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0091par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The 10th Development Plan and Plan and Budget Commission Report 476 rows will continue to talk. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Faik Öztrak, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0092par0006	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the Tenth Development Plan. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as a man raised by the State Planning Agency, I know how difficult and demanding the preparation of a plan is. Therefore, I thank separately all my friends, bureaucrats and academics, representatives of the civil society who have worked in the preparation of the Tenth Development Plan. The success of a development plan depends on its accurate reading of the world's general trends and developments, its assumptions reflect these general trends in the most realistic way and have a strong frame of consistency. The Tenth Plan has not considered some of the most important global developments. I pointed to some of that in my speeches at the Plan and Budget Commission. The first talks on the Free Trade Agreement between the United States and the European Union were not included. This new order between the group of countries that make up 40 per cent of the world's added value and have an estimated $1 trillion volume of foreign trade will affect all economies. It is clear that Turkey, which has a customs union relationship with the European Union, will pay a serious price if it stays out of the negotiation process. The plan didn't consider that fact. Our bureaucracy must immediately work on the potential impact of this agreement on our economy, considering the fact that trade talks between the European Union and the United States will be completed in the next two and a half years. The government must not stay out of these negotiations between the European Union and the United States, but also find ways to participate in negotiations simultaneously. Once again, the cost of staying out of this negotiation process or delaying will be high for the economy and for our people. Another important aspect of the plan is that with the global crisis, the busy working sectors start to return from Asia to developed economies, their mother country, to their homeland. This is also a very important development, and it signals a new structure in global production and value chains. Just to give you an example: General Electric, the largest white object manufacturer in the United States, shut down the white goods factory that operates in China, and brought its production back to the United States. We need to read these global developments right. Over the past decade, the growth strategy, industry and agriculture, which have been monitored in our country, has wiped out our foreign trade sectors, particularly. In the current fiction of the plan, there are small changes in the rhetoric of these sectors, but I see that the old understanding is still going on. Our country, with a young population, has no luxury of liquidating industry and agriculture. We need to use the attractive power of growth in these sectors to create jobs and add value to the full. Again, another development that has not been considered in the plan is the United States Central Bank, which has been shaking international markets for over a month, explaining that the free money period has come to an end. The ministers in charge of the economy have tried to get away with it by saying, "These are expected developments." If this is what's expected, why didn't you consider this fact when the plan was being prepared, Mr. Ministers? If you had considered them, if you had handled the process well, would Turkey have been more shaken than other markets, and the dollar would have jumped to a dry 1.95? Look, at the point where we're here today, the dollar's settled on the dry 1.90. So, what's the plan for the 2018 dollar dry? 1.97 Turkish liras, 1.97 Turkish liras, will remain almost at the current level until the dollar is dry, and the value of Turkish lira will continue to swell. So, with an inflated Turkish lira, how will our producer, our farmer, our industrialist compete, our exports increase, how do we get Turkey out of being the paradise of imported goods? How do we reduce the rate of the cari deficit to 5.8 per cent in five years from 6.5 per cent? Even if we drop this, how are we going to finance this gap in new global liquidity conditions? How do we reduce consumption and increase domestic savings with bloated Turkish lira? How are we going to grow in the open sectors of global competition, such as agriculture and industry, targeted in the plan? How do we reduce unemployment? Friends, one mistake in the investigation will lose the entire war. See how the error made in a single parameter of the plan nullifies the main objectives of the plan and nullifies the plan's goals. On 26 June, the International Financial Institute announced its predictions of future capital trends for economies like us. The Institute predicts that the money for developing economies in 2014 will go to its lowest level since 2009. Of course, I don't need to remind you that 2009 is the year of crisis in the world. I've been saying for a long time that Turkey would be seriously affected by a slowdown in global capital movements. Now the International Financial Institute says the same thing. In the event that the United States ends free money, Turkey counts as the head of the most affected economies. Just last month, a similar warning was issued by the Economic Co-operation and Development Agency (OECD), which we were members of. For some reason, the government ignored these warnings in the plan and predicted that the abundance of liquidity would continue in the next five years. Look, I've been saying for a long time that Turkey's foreign debt has increased its sense of risk. As I said, "The foreign debts of Turkey are high, they're a problem. The more I said, the more the debt in power, the more the private sector, the more the risk in the private sector. In the past few weeks, the World Bank has announced the latest report on global expectations. On page 27 of the report, the risk of paying a country is not limited to general state debt. In the emerging economies of the Asian crisis, as in developed economies in the recent financial crisis, the debt of the private sector is very quickly the problem of the public sector. This is why Turkey falls into the category of the most risky countries. Dear lawmakers, the most important task expected of a plan is to place a vision and a claim before society in the eyes of the government for the purposes set out. I think that's the greatest lack of this text that comes our way. The AKP government has no vision, no claim, no horizon to the community for the next five years. On the contrary, this text is a declaration of the bankruptcy of the policies that AKP has been following for ten years. It is now the end of the strategy and policies that have deceived society by creating a sense of virtual wealth, not of production, but of public gain, not of public income, which has condemned the economy to hot money, not of real finance, which disrupts the middle class, which corrupts income distribution, which leads to consumption, by creating a sense of virtual wealth, not of production, but of public wealth. AKP has nothing new to say to Turkey. The power is in a serious dilemma. Every new word he says means that AKP will deny its past ten years and policies. Those who deny our Prophet's origin are not of our own. Our nation is also of ours who deny its origin. The problem of the AKP government is not only in this struggle, but also in both cases. How does a government deny itself and its ten years of work? How does he contradict himself? Let me explain it to you in numbers. Today, Turkey is the world's 17th largest economy, and according to its share of purchasing power, it is the 16th largest economy. In fact, Turkey has come to this point long before the AKP's power. Turkey was the world's 14th largest economy in 1987. We need to remind them that the Prime Minister, who thinks he's the beginning and the end, knows the truth. Look, didn't the Prime Minister pledge to put Turkey among the top ten economies in the 2011 elections? He was. Is the Prime Minister still not repeating this today? It's repeating. For this, Turkey must climb the growth steps steadily each year and pass its opponents one by one. At the end of the planning period, the government envisioned a $1.3 trillion GDP in 2018. Compared to the global projections of the IMF at the same time, Turkey will continue to remain ranked 17th in the global league at 2018. So despite the extraordinary swelling of Turkish lira, with the balance of this plan, Turkey can't even travel by a barley length, we're stuck where we are. Even if we look at the buying power parity, the painting doesn't change again. Turkey appears to be in the 16th position in the next five years. Friends, an economy in the global race is losing the race. With these balances and policies, Turkey's next five years are lost. Turkey will not be among the top ten economies unless Turkey gives up its existing AKP paradigms and policies, and will not address the well-being it deserves for its citizens. Turkey today is paying the price for its policies to consume without producing, to spend without winning, to borrow and close the deficit that has been created. Dear lawmakers, economic policies that have been monitored for the past ten years have quickly removed Turkey from production. See, over the last ten years, the farmland has declined by 3.4 million hectares, and the farmer has been unable to plant a farm the size of 6.5 Istanbul. In agriculture, self-sufficient Turkey now imports corn from Argentina, wheat from Ukraine, and an angus from Chile to feed itself. For the first time in the history of the republic, the AKP imports hay and distributes it to the feeder in a ceremony. Turkey has become unable to produce its own hay in its power. The government's decrees have imposed a ban on the food that the feed man who can't reach the price of the bait has imposed on him. Both the producer and production of the AKP government have lost their blessings. Turkey's industrial base is rapidly worn out in its hands by AKP governments. From 1998 to 2012, the value of adding industry in Turkey dropped by 6 points in national income to 22 per cent. In Malaysia, where we competed to enter the first 10, the share rose from 42 per cent to 44 per cent in Thailand, from 40 per cent to 45 per cent in Thailand, and from 45 per cent in China to 48 per cent in China. As Turkey fell out of the world industrial league, our competitors beat us. According to a recent study published by McKinsey of the global research institutes, Turkey was the world's 13th largest manufacturer in the 1990s and the world's 15th largest manufacturer in 2000, while in 2010 it was no longer included in the first 15. It's also possible to understand the melting of our industry's competitiveness from the technology density of our exports. In 2002, the share of high-tech products in total exports was 6.2 per cent, while in 2011, it dropped to 2.8 per cent. Turkey's AKP power has become heavy, expensively light products exported. The AKP, which created this painting, is saying that it is important to industrialize in the Tenth Plan, where it brings power today, to increase exports of high-tech products. Another party in this country has been in power for ten years, and someone else is prime minister, and we didn't notice it? We've been trying to warn the government for ten years. As the CHP called it industry and agriculture, the AKP called it the AVM and the residences. When we say "Cari" is the melting of open competitiveness, the AKP and the Prime Minister said, "As long as it's finished, it's not an open problem." I will make Turkey the world's production base. The Prime Minister said, "I will make Turkey the world's shopping and retail trading base." The Prime Minister didn't keep a lot of promises to the nation, changed shirts on many matters, said what he said yesterday, and said what he said yesterday, but, in fact, he never broke his stand on the AVM and the residences until the Travel Park. Prime Minister AVM and the residence applauded that people would be drowned with pepper spray for love, and that they would be trapped under a police baton, and that they would be soaked with chemical water that bores the TOMAs. You wrote to those who did this to their people. He stood up to people with looters and drunks and a lot of insults and slander that I couldn't get into my mouth, but people stood up to the Prime Minister. At last, the prime minister asked the city museum to ask him about the mall and the residence project. Dear lawmakers, look, the Prime Minister's love for the mall and the residence has knocked Turkey out of the industrial league, but the same love brought Turkey to 14th place in the world mall and shopping league last year. This news has been given as good news to the people by the friendly press. Now, the AKP government and the Prime Minister are denying their ten-year performance and the love of the AVM and the residences, talking about accelerating industrialisation during the time of this plan. Do you laugh at the state of the government, or do you weep for the people to be ruled by such a government? From now on, it's your call. Dear lawmakers, another window of demographic opportunity that the government has realized after ten years of long sleep is Turkey's own. The plan talks about the importance of this window for a long time, and that window will close after 2030. Today, one out of five young people looking for a job in Turkey are unemployed. The presence of our young unemployed army reached 844,000 people this year as of March. This clearly shows that we can't use the demographic window of opportunity that we have. Turkey, however, will increase its national income a lot faster if it can work for our citizens, especially the young population, and will be able to move up in the development race. Dear lawmakers, as of 2012, only 25 million members of the 75 million family of Turkey have worked and produced $786 billion in revenues, so one of the 3 people has worked and produced $786 billion in revenues. The income that was created was shared by the entire family, 75 million, and the income per family member in 2012 was $10,504. The number of people employed in Turkey was 45 per cent, whereas if it could be brought to averages of the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization (OECD), which is 65 per cent, Turkey would be up to 15,000 dollars per person. In this decade that we lost, and it would increase the efficiency of our employees, especially in education, if structural reforms could be done, Turkey, then, would jump and pass its opponents one by one today. Today, however, we can't give our young people a good education, as we can't have a job. 69% of the population between 25 and 64 years of age are under-schooled. The same rate in OECD is 26 percent. A large percentage of the working population is trying to hold on to business life through six upper secondary schools. The quality of education in Turkey is also controversial. Turkey was imprisoned recently in the PISA results of the OECD. How can we become a knowledge society if we can't train our young people well? How can we have the workforce that makes the world standard worth adding? The AKP has been unable to improve in these areas for the past ten years. For the last ten years, the government has been rewritten with the same government, but with every national education minister, the education system has been rewritten. The latest system, 4+4+4, was abducted from the National Bureau of Education and ministers, and was legalized without proper discussion under the Prime Minister's instructions. Look, in today's papers, the Ministry of National Education has identified 60-66-month-old children's problems in harmonisation with the system. We told you that day about the problems the Ministry has just detected. We told him one by one that the physical conditions of the schools were incompatible with this system, that they would have harmonisation issues, but the Prime Minister came out, alone, decided how old the children would go to school. Now, where we're from, we're moving on to cushioned education in schools. Now, the AKP government, who has made these mistakes, is talking about how it will use the demographic window of opportunity it hasn't used in ten years as a quantity and increase the quality of human capital. Dear friends, ten years later, they call the power "good morning" after dinner. Dear lawmakers speak beautiful words under the AKP ruling plan, the Qualified Human Power Society, talking about the understanding of human development and of human development. These are, of course, very nice words, I congratulate my fellow bureaucrats who write them, but a government that produces human-oriented development needs to respect the differences in the country. I can barely keep 50 percent of people in their homes, dividing society into percentage voting slices, saying, "Foots are not heads that polarize the nation." A mind that scorns democratic demands can never be constrained, stable, and human-oriented growth. The distribution of income with the same mentality cannot be corrected. Look, the magazine Forbes has announced that as of 2012, there are 43 dollar billionaires in Turkey and 22 dollar billionaires in Japan. The total national income of Japan is 7.5 times Turkey, but the number of dollar billionaires in Turkey is twice as large as Japan. In a human-focused economy, such a painting would never appear, precious MPs. Looking at these figures, it is clear that AKP power is not as successful as we are in fighting poverty. Dear lawmakers, perhaps the most entertaining part of this text the government has brought is in part of the part about improving institutional quality. Can we talk about the routes of bridges and highways in one country, how many times the children are going to go to school, how many floors are going to be built, until the citizens' party, their cult, their public transportation, who will be sold to, and every decision in the country is facing the mouth of a single man until they get public tenders? In one country, both the gynaecologist and pedagogologist can be both architects and engineers both economists, and we can talk about institutionalisation in that country, not the business department, not the rules of democracy. In that country, we'd be talking about the one-man regime. (HPP) This is exactly what Turkey's general view shows today. The most important vulnerability of this country today is the Prime Minister, who is increasingly authoritarian. The prime minister is suffering from Hubris syndrome, also known as the 10th-century disease in power. The growing arrogance of the long-standing leader, the hubris, prevents the leader from making sound decisions. The leader who suffers from this disease does not accept criticism or even listen to his closest friends. This power contamination of the leader is called hubris syndrome. It's possible to see the example of the leader who's been infected with this disease in the world, dear friends. In the United States, Bush, the son, is an example of Margaret Thatcher, who recently died in England. Thatcher remained in power for 11 years from 1979 to 1990, not losing an election during this period, but losing the position of Prime Minister Thatcher. His closest friends gradually moved away from the arrogant leader, but when he insisted on taxing his party's head, he received the party's seat from Thatcher. After all, in real democracies, it's not about people, it's about institutions; in real democracies, people are passengers, institutions are landlords. Dear lawmakers, it is possible to identify a leader from some findings whether he was caught or not. Let me share a few, and I'll leave the credit to you and the people: Having this disease, the leader sees the world as a place where he can glorify himself by using his power. If I were to tell you that it was the Prime Minister himself who ordered citizens to use disproportionate force in the Travel Park events, I think it would be much better understood what I mean. The infected leader equates himself with the institution or state he is in charge of. I would like to remind you of the statements of the Prime Minister, my governor, my chief of police, my chief of staff. The leader who suffers from this syndrome clearly despises the other group for himself. I'm sure you understand now why the Prime Minister referred to the people in the Trips. The infected leader feels that he can answer not only to his people, or to his colleagues, or to justice, but only to history or to a higher will, such as God. At the Prime Minister's Sincan rally, we only answer to God. Is it possible to accept his words in a normal democracy? If the Prime Minister, who performs a public service, has any irregularities or misdemeanor, will his account be only for Judgment Day? Of course, the Prime Minister will answer for his personal flaws and mistakes on Judgment Day to Almighty God. We won't be one of those who try to get between God and his people, but if the slave has received the right to perform a public duty in this world, if he has committed acts of hatred and hatred against his people, if he has separated the community, he has given orders to police that do not obey the law, and if the police are forced to implement them, he will surely answer to justice and the Turkish judiciary. No one should doubt that, my friends. Finally, the leader who suffers from this hubris disease insists on the wrong policies caused by excessive self-esteem, and does not think about the consequences of his decisions. The Prime Minister couldn't have stopped travel events from the very first day when he could've stopped them in one sentence. With the prime minister's provocative approach added to the economy's own fragility, the record-breaking current, foreign currency open position, short-term foreign debt stock and insufficient foreign currency reserves, the situation has become even more dire in our markets. While it was being damaged by Bernanke's statements, we lost three to the Prime Minister's arrogance and hot monetary economic policies. Friends, in 2002, the short-term foreign debt was $16.5 billion, the current $622 million. Today, the short-term foreign debt is $115 billion, and the current is $47 billion. As a result, the foreign currency reserves, which the Prime Minister boasted of $135 billion, were insufficient. In 2002, every $100 short-term foreign debt and current account is open, so there are now $16 in the central bank vault for a year of foreign currency, but the Prime Minister insists on not seeing short-term debts and current deficits, and he continues to boast with insufficient reserves. Again, in 2002, this country had an open currency position of 85.5 billion dollars, now 451 billion dollars. So, every ten-cent devaluation burdens the economy with 45 billion Turkish liras. Part of that is due to short-term obligations. If Turkey is fluctuating more today than in similar economies, if the United States of America is described as the most affected economy by tightening money, then these economic vulnerabilitys are behind it. The government and its Prime Minister ignored them. In AKP's ten-year mandate, the country's foreign debt, the republic's era, the foreign debt taken by all the authorities in the 80 years before it, 2. He's doubled to five, he's reached $337 billion, but we have a Prime Minister who's proud to pay off $20 billion in IMF debt when the citizen is in debt. The Prime Minister was surprised to see the markets' reaction, who forgot the performances of rating agencies in Asia, Russia and the recent crises, and were blinded by their grade increases, and were deceived by the spectacular groundbreaking of billion-dollar projects, which could never be funded despite the guarantees of treasure. As the events of his self-absorbed arrogance and his uninhibited ego grew, he tried to turn the bill of his error into different unfathomable sections. Just last year, it was the government that brought $1 million to this country, making $630,000 in the stock market, $210,000 in the government paper market. Just a month before the travel events, in April, the public debt papers had a record of hot money investors investing $9 billion in money. Turkey received the country's awards, which won the most for hot moneymakers in 2012. They wrote sheets in the media, but when the hot money started to come out in May, the Prime Minister suddenly called the lobbyists he had sent his staff to get their support while he was in power, and then embraced them.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0093par0051	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0092par0052	Dear lawmakers, Turkey has many vulnerabilitys, but its most important vulnerability is to be led by a prime minister who suffers from Hubris disease. In a few years, such a prime minister will face the risk of paying serious costs. The biggest favour the AKP will do the country is to allow the British Conservative Party to continue its summer vacation, giving its leader the honorable way out of Thatcher. I salute you all with these thoughts and feelings, and I hope that the Tenth Development Plan will be good and good for our land.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0094par0056	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party group, the first speaker is Recai Berber, Manisa MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0095par0058	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the second part of the Tenth Development Plan. I salute your high council. The Tenth Development Plan, which spans 2014 and 2018, includes our country's 2023 goals, aims to improve the prosperity of our people, improve the standard of life, strengthen basic rights and freedoms, and establish a fair, safe and peaceful environment to make them permanent. In addition to economic improvements during the Ninth Development Plan, significant improvements have been made in social development, especially in basic public services, including education and health, to be more qualified, more common, and more accessible. During the plan period, the pension and health care system have been made to provide more effective services for all citizens. During the Tenth Development Plan, the process of structural reform must be continued in order to increase the gains that have been achieved in recent years, to be evaluated at the highest level of our economic potential, to be transformed into social benefits. The Tenth Development Plan is a plan that is very detailed as topics, perhaps for the first time set goals as topics. It will not be possible to address all the topics of this plan, but the plan includes policies that will be implemented, especially under the heading of the Mighty People, the Strong Society, for human and human development approach and for spreading development to different parts of society. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, when we include health, justice, justice, social justice, social security, including education, we find that there are serious increases in all of these four basic public services when we look at both the resources and the goals that were divided in Plan Nine and the Tenth Plan, especially when we look at them. Here, at the time of the training, an average of 12 per cent of the GDP was cut off, 47 billion per year. The new, tenth Plan raises that figure to 16 per cent, on average to 66 billion dollars. Dear friends, just now, Mr. Speaker, even though he is truly a very technical, technocratic person, he may be very critical of Turkey's economy...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0096par0065	You read your own book, and you're a technocrat.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0095par0066	... even though they had a lot of suggestions, I watched him marvel at the economy's greatest vulnerability to our Prime Minister himself.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0096par0067	And you're a technocrat, so don't get into anything else.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0095par0068	Because, in fact, he's a fellow congressman we know as a technocrat. If Turkey can recover its economy on such short notice in such an environment, despite the fluctuations of both the FED, Bernanke, and the world, despite these widespread provocations; on the contrary, a leader, a Prime Minister, the President of the Government, is in control of all events. Of course, he doesn't know about our meetings, especially in our party organization and our groups, so the final decision of these consultations, as the product of these studies, is the Prime Minister's, as if he's the only one making decisions about everything, and it's really amazing. All the levels of our party, all the institutions, the most institutional consultations, the most consultations, the most expertise, the most expertise, the most important, the most important, the most important, and the most important. The whole world knows about it, and it's basically the most important factor underlying ten years of success.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0096par0069	Pick on me a little more.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0095par0070	But if the leadership, if they think of the government as an environment that has a voice in every head, where the government is unpredictable, where tomorrow is uncertain, then I'm sorry, Turkey can't grow stable and walk safely into the future in such an environment. For him, dear friends, especially the tenth... of course, I wanted to be more technical in my speech, but I just wanted to say...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0096par0071	You are a technique, Mr. Barber.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0095par0072	Yes, I'd like to say that they're talking about Turkey's debts, which means that the European Union...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0097par0073	You went up there to do the ministry, I got it.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0095par0074	I think even middle school students have memorized the European Union-defined debts. They probably know that Turkey's debt has dropped its share in the non-profits, even that Turkey is now zeroing the risk of foreign currency as public debt -- with its reserves, with its net reserves -- but they've probably tried to say a lot of different things here. Dear friends, Turkey has come to real interest at zero point, with such cheap and affordable conditions, especially at the point where we came from the beginning of 2013, with the decline of nominal interest. Twenty-six percent of real interest. He came here from years when all the tax revenues in the Turkish budget didn't only cover current interest. For him, dear friends, in the Turkish economy, yes, vulnerability is obvious; these have been enabled to reduce the current deficit from 9.7 per cent to 6 per cent, especially after high growth in 2010 and 2011, due to the extensive measures taken by the government in the face of such a possibility. Yes, and in the coming period, one of the most important goals of the development plan is to be criticized again by an opposition MP, and I'm still amazed. In the past, Turkey has experienced rapid growth, but has grown for three years, has shrunk for a year. Ta, look, since 90 years ago, there's never been a period in which he grew up five years in a row. He must have experienced 94 crises, 98 crises, the 2001 crisis, because of his own structural problems, and there have surely been seven percent decreases in growth that reached a very serious 8% period, but for the first time, the EC PARTI government has given stable growth during the period. In the coming period, friends view growth of 5.5 per cent as really insignificant. Dear friends, the history of the Republic of Turkey has a growth average of around 4 per cent by 2002, 4.1 per cent by 2002, and 5.1 in our time. Now, to underestimate the average growth of 5.5, and to underestimate the average growth of 5.5, in the environment of an uncertain global crisis, where the world is alive and when it's going to emerge, and also to underestimate the program that aims for stable growth. Dear friends, the goals of the development plan, especially up to 2018, you know, are the interim goals of the 2023 targets, which are now announced by our Prime Minister. Hopefully, after these 2018 goals, we will see together how realistic their 2023 goals were and how goals and policies aimed at these goals were created in the 11th and 5 Year Plan, which, hopefully, will make it our government and this Parliament. In this plan, the Tenth Plan says that we care about industry, that we just realized it. Dear friends, since two years ago, in 2012 and 2013, among the incentives we've done before, the last of Turkey's provinces have been divided into six regions, especially for industrial investments, including tax incentives, and everyone sees that -- especially from the beginning of 2013 -- while investments in the world have been reduced -- with many countries in a world, not only by private sectors, but by public sector investments, as well as by private sector investments. Dear friends, in our 2014-2018 Development Plan, our industrialisation goals are one point above growth numbers. It predicts growth of 6.4 industries against 5.5 averages. Dear friends, we set these goals, but all of Turkey, right now I see that all NGOs, including fellow lawmakers from the opposition party, have embraced it, absorbed it, and have set their own goals for each sector. For the first time in Turkey, their 2023 targets cost Turkey, making it the target of everyone's ownership. Of course, in order to achieve these goals, dear friends, I would like to stress the essential issues that I believe must be done, especially in order to bring attention to the goals of the plan. One of them is the Public Financial Reform. Since we came to power, dear friends, tax revenues -- stable, solidest resource -- have been significantly increased, while in 2001 it rose to 19.7 percent in 2012, when it was 16.5 per cent of the informal domestic population. This is a tax increase in the added value tax, especially in education, health care, despite reductions in certain sectors -- including tourism -- in terms of institutional taxes, despite reductions in income tax rates, I want to make this especially clear to you. However, it is also true, of course, that there is a need for public financial reform in Turkey, especially in fighting off the books, such as its 2023 goals, which should be adopted and implemented by each part of society. Our government also has very serious work on this, and I would like to point out that these will come to Parliament in the coming days, and they will start working on the Plan and Budget Commission. Dear friends, in the same way, the Central Bank's number one goal was, you know, price stability. Not only price stability -- according to the conjunctural and conditions of the world, but also financial stability has been on the agenda, and financial stability is one of the Central Bank's most important goals for today. In this respect, infrastructure work continues to carry out Turkey's 2023 goals as well as its monetary policies, as well as its 2018 plans in the first place. Dear friends, we're running out of time, but I'd like to point out the other issues as well. One of them is RD. Dear friends, we did not succeed in Plan Nine because we were below what we predicted, about 0.9 percent. But we've set an average target of 1.8 percent in 2014-2018. Taking into account the GDP growth, this means at least three times the increase in RD spending today. Basically, I'd like to point out that it's an obligation to support private sector RD studies, a need to reduce the number of employees at least 50 to maybe lower employees in the RD incentives we provide to companies, to increase RD support. Dear friends, another argument is that both in terms of the current deficit and our production of energy, close to 50 per cent, our production of electricity depends on imported natural gas and oil, and the fact that it depends on supply and price fluctuations in oil and natural gas in the coming period is one of the most important handicaps that connects us, and I think our incentives for our current incentives, especially for our local lithible sources, can be significantly reduced in the coming period. In particular, I believe that thanks to the opening of the hydropower plants, the support of wind plants, the Tenth Plan will take considerable distance at the end of the five-year plan, as well. The other thing is that perhaps many of our speakers have attracted attention. Really, if we're going to export 277 billion in our 2018 goals, 500 billion in exports in 2023, we're going to have to take very serious steps in logistics. Again, this was predicted in the plan. Northern Aegean Chandar port, which will be among the world's top 10 ports, continues quickly. Again, the port of Mersin will be among the top 10 major ports of the world in the Mediterranean. Again, the Black Sea will have a serious infrastructure for Turkey's capture of 2023 targets in the field of logistics, with the port of Filyos, and the links to the railways and roads that will be connected to them. I believe this will happen faster, thanks to the opening of the private sector in the railway business we've been building recently. Dear friends, again, I believe that this plan is a very realistic plan that will allow both high growth and stable growth... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd even like to point out that there's a prudent plan. I sincerely believe that Turkey's conjunctive will bring about a growth of more than 5.5, if the conditions improve, and I thank all those who work, all the workers, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0098par0090	Thank you. On the second chapter, second speaker for the AK PARTY Group, Cahit Bağcı, Corum MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0099par0092	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group over the second chapter of the 10th Annual Development Plan. I salute you all. Dear friends, the Tenth Development Plan is designed at a time when future relations and uncertainties continue in the global economy, where change and transformations take place, new balances are formed, and power balances are being reshaped among developing countries. The plan was designed specifically to include a stable and inclusive economic growth, the rule of law, the knowledge society, international competitiveness, human development, conservation of the environment and sustainable use of resources. In addition, the economic and social development process of our country has been discussed from a holistic and multidimensional perspective and has been prepared by the understanding of human-oriented development and the contributions of all parts of society. In the creation of the plan text, Turkey's 50-year-old planning experience has also been used, especially from special occupational commission reports, business, NGOs, think tankes, academic environments, public and private sector representatives. Dear friends, as countries prepare their development strategies, they have to consider their potential, the quality of human resources, and other countries' development aspects, market demands, threats, risks, opportunities. The countries that are able to make these strategies into opportunities by putting them in the right way continue their development process with success. Our country's industrialization buildup, the growing organisation, management skills, and externally open structures, programmes to be established, action plans to be considered by the capacity to turn organisation, development and demand into opportunity, will also put our country's economy in a high-profile way. The Western-to-East growth and production axis is also a key factor in the policies of developing countries to transform population and natural resource advantages into technological production and competitive advantage. On the other hand, with more and more integration of the global economy, the risks of economic and financial crisis are on the agenda more often, and crises are gaining global dimensions and deepening under the spread. In this framework, high debt rates and problems in the banking and financial structure of developed countries offer savings in global financial markets a stable and sustainable growth advantage to powerful countries. With the increase of savings, investments and growth will be used in financing, thus reducing the dependence on external resources in financing. Because the poor financing markets of poor countries are weak, countries whose economies are fragile and risky are affected by the free movement of capital, creating risks on exchange rates and currents, and causing instability in the country's economies. Dear friends, I believe that the Tenth Development Plan, covering the 2014-2018 period, would be an important milestone in bringing our society to a high level of prosperity, in line with our country's 2023 goals. Qualified people, strong society, innovative production, stable high growth, living spaces and objectives, targets and policies on the sustainable environmental axis will provide for the implementation and development of the Tenth Development Plan. I believe, in particular, that the average 5.5-alarm growth, $1.3 trillion in illegal domestic revenues, the increase of national income per person to 16,000 dollars per person, the approach of 4 million people from additional jobs and participation in the labour force in five years to 541% of the 51 per cent, the reduction of unemployment rates to 7 ▪ and the goal of exports from 150 billion to $277 billion. The stock market is an important goal to increase the number of companies in Istanbul from 431 to 606. The continuation of Hakeza, KODES, BELDES, SDUKAP and SODES programmes are important social policy tools. It should also be noted that the number of physicians to be raised from 176 to 193. During the planning period, the goal of public investment of 417 billion TL is an indication that Turkey has grown and that its share in foreign domestic revenues is close to 5 per cent. Dear friends, new arrangements and improvements in some areas of trouble should also be seen as important goals. In particular, what we all know is that it is important to review the institution of expertise within the judicial system. In national education, we care about policies that reduce school species, that allow all children, especially the disabled, to have programs to access the school, to reduce repeats of the classroom and drop out of school, to learn the foreign language well. It is important to reduce the combined class and bilateral training practice. It is important that the integration between education and labour markets improves and the establishment of a school-business relationship. On the other hand, it is an important goal that the higher education system will be transformed into autonomy, residency, quality-oriented structure. As of today, it is also an important goal to target the transformation of the ECHR into a structure responsible for setting standards, planning and coordination in the future. In this way, we care that the quality security system will also be created in higher education. In collaboration with industry, higher education institutions will also be encouraged to be transformed into a output-oriented structure that values technology production. The completion of city hospitals providing 30,000 additional beds and the number of beds for 10,000 have increased is also an important goal. The capital savings and industrialization process will be accelerated, domestic savings, productive investments, and efficiency levels in production factors will also be increased. In import, addiction will be reduced, a happy, prosperous, honorable, free, healthy, safe, high standard of living and social environment will be provided. Emergency call centers are an important project. In 2015-2016, the United Nations Security Council has been targeted for active work to run for temporary membership. A social basis that recognizes the principle of respect for all the beliefs and lifestyles that are freely expressed in all aspects of society is the main goal. A capacitor, complementary, pluralistic constitution is intended. Family-based approach to welfare and services will be shown. Completive health insurance will be encouraged. Family communication, interaction, family counselling and reconciliation mechanisms will be developed. Flexible work, day care centres, and day care centres will be popularized for harmonisation of family and working lives. I'd like to point out that it's important that a gender-sensitive budgetation be put as a target and adopted as a principle. Dear friends, the population rate of less than $4.30 per person per day was 13.3 per cent in 2006, while in 2013 it was 2.3 per cent. At the end of the plan, I'd like to point out that in 2018, I consider it a target that should be considered to be a very important goal in this area, to be reduced to one percent and brought closer to zero. Programs aimed at boosting the jobability of the poor will be implemented during the planning period. Another issue is about sub-employment. We can point out that it's been revised to consider the rights of the workers. The active-passage ratio is now 1.77, which is intended to be increased to 2. In 2013, the social insurance population was intended to increase from 77 per cent to 90 per cent at the end of 2018. Dear friends, the reforms have resulted in a strong financial structure in the banking sector, and the GDP of the actives has increased from 65.9% to 96.7% in 2006. Loans have also increased from 28.9 per cent to 56 per cent in 2006, and Turkey currently has a strong financial structure in our country. The deadline for the completion of public investments and projects has dropped from five-and-a-half years in 2006 to less than four years today, and is intended to fall further at the end of the planning period. Dear friends, this plan will also be prepared on the basis of the aim, principle and policies of its development plan, based on effective implementation and the capture of targets, medium-term programmes, annual programmes, institutional strategy plans, regional development and sector strategies. It is important that the central and long-term goals of public institutions are in line with the development plan, with the basic principles, goals and priorities and methods to achieve them, and the distribution of resources to achieve them. A policy set has also been created at the institutional level to adopt a comprehensive understanding of the necessary integrity and harmony between strategic plans and development plans, which can guide all institutions and help set priorities. In addition to acting more consistent and consciously in the process of decision-making, the plan provides targets for all parts of society. The main mission is to increase the welfare of the people, raise the standard of life, strengthen their basic rights and freedoms, establish a just, safe, peaceful environment, and make it permanent, and I wish our Ten Years of Development Plan will be good for our country, our nation. I believe the plan will contribute to the development of our country, to becoming a model country that will play an active role in the world order of changing new balances, and to the continuation of our economy's stability. I want to thank everyone who's been involved in the preparation of the plan, from NGOs to academic circles, and from our State Planning Agency to all the employees of our Development Ministry under the new name, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0100par0127	Thank you. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP, who asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0101par0130	Dear friends, I'm going to talk about the second chapter, but before that, I need to say a few words about the whole plan. First, the plan is said to have been drafted in accordance with Turkey's 2023 goals under the heading of the Tenth Development Plan Summit. I don't know that Turkey has an official target of 2023 targets, passed through parliament, or we have a government document. There is no such thing as 2023 targets. So the plan is trying to rationalize itself by referring to a non-existent entity, a non-existent concept, to give itself a strategic context, but I think it's all wrong from beginning to end. It refers to the long-term development of the State Planning Agency and the development strategy of the 8th Annual Development Plan in the context of the State Planning Agency alone, referred to in parentheses as "2001-2023." Other than that, only the AK PARTY has a plan for their 2023 goals. So I'd like to point out that it's very strange that a public document refers to the plan of the EC PARTY, which is absurd in terms of our planning literature. In fact, this plan or the State Planning Agency has not had a strategic goal except for the first three plans for many years. The first three plans were based on a 15-year general strategy, and it could actually deserve the name of strategy because it was a development plan that envisioned extremely structural changes. But after that, there is no strategic goal. So I'd like to point out that this plan was originally lacking a spine, an axis, for my own sake. And second of all, I'm not sure that the plan means anything in this predicted framework, because what we call the plan is the basis of the action of direct allocation by interfering with the market's indirect allocations from outside the market. However, this next Tenth Development Plan does not predict any leverage outside the market. On the other hand, he does not have a tangible application tool for fulfilling these predictions. With privatisations, the capacity to manipulate has become extremely limited to the public. Therefore, there is no direction. When we look at it as a whole, we can see that this plan actually leaves itself to a fluctuation in the general world situation. In the second chapter, when we look wider, it's very difficult to understand what the basic purpose and principles of the plan differ from a government programme, because no characteristic, structural, look at any part of a ten-year term, in a social and economic structure, institutional, structural, visible, can change society's life from beginning to end. They're just talking about quantitative increases. And in this case, as always, it's a quantitative macroctistic policy, and such macrotistic policies never claim to change the structure and foundations of society, and there's even an anti-profit will. We all hear the Prime Minister often say, "Do feet ever have heads?" But a true plan, a plan that leads, a plan that always looks for feet to be the head above all else. So it's pretty hard to call this plan. Now, one of the most important points, which concerns us directly, is a bet that the government, the government's spokesman, said with great confidence about the second chapter, that for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, democratisation, fundamental rights and freedoms were included in this plan. What we see when we consider these things carefully is that there is clearly no meaningful perspective except that various Constitutional provisions are passed on to the plan. However, we are facing a very important new situation in Turkey. Basic rights and freedoms say the government is conducting a solution to Turkey's basic political structure. This solution has also taken the initiative to ensure that the process will take place. Now, if you come up with a plan that will cover the next five years, but you haven't given up any resources for this work, and if you don't place any of the things that are thought to be the source of this conflict and are among the demands of the Kurdish people, then what plan are you going to make, or if this plan is a strategic document, how are you going to do it without a strategy? Dear friends, what we're talking about is the fact that a population transfer involving millions of people took place over the past 20 years. I'm amazed that the population of cities has become an enormous human storage area, that they can talk about a plan that does not have structural contact between democracy and fundamental rights and freedoms, and a resource that supports them from education, health, health care, housing, and employment. What we're dealing with, what we're dealing with, is what we're given as a plan, is actually wishes, guesses, and some observations. It's a document of promises that has no will behind it, and when it doesn't, it doesn't have anything to do with it. Just like this plan before its own, I'm curious, although it's obvious that Plan Nine did not happen at all, what's the catch? What is the guarantee that this plan is going to happen, and based on what, we're going to be able to say that this plan is happening? These are, these are, these are, we don't have any databases confirming that this plan will have reached its goal when these indicators happen. When we look at it this way, the Tenth Annual Plan is not really related to development, nor is it related to planning. In my opinion, those who run the government are already very aware that it is not possible to navigate the entire economy or to make meaningful results with a plan from Ankara in the context of global economic relations that Turkey is in today. A very important part of Turkey's capital market is controlled from outside. All major industrial investments of Turkey are international partners. Turkey's public economic initiatives are being dispossessed. Therefore, it is not possible to sit in Ankara and make a plan to direct all of this. It's just that maybe that's one reason why he's claiming to grab a log from the flood in this enormous crisis current alone. However, when we look at the complete plan, we can say: We can see the source of the resistance that has erupted in Ankara, Istanbul, İzmir, all over Turkey for the past month. This, in fact, is about over-fiscalization that the government has placed a great deal of importance in this plan. It's always inevitable that the entire economy is tied to Ranta, that people are being devoid of the future, and that there's always a rebellion against the control of all of society's cells by capital. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So this plan could be a promise of future rebellion. We can't say that we've seen ahead of us with any kind of plan from that point of view, but we can see through the resistance. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0102par0143	Thank you. Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0103par0146	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, I have made a personal pledge to address the Tenth Development Plan. I salute you all. We have expressed much of the importance of the concept of ascension in our country. What is undisputed today is that development cannot be taken from planning. We have expressed how much a planned economy will increase the country's prosperity level, how indispensable the importance of economic, political independence and democratic rights is in this plan, and we will continue to say. Since the day the AKP came to power, it has emphasised the importance of the concept of static. In essence, the AKP has ruled the country for more than a decade as an economic step ahead of its power, and as a government that has carried on these steps to the letter of economic programmes. Mr. Secretary, I am pleased to announce that the alternatives to international regional integration, which I stressed during last year's budget talks, which I later expressed in my speech on the CHP group proposal from the parliamentary platform, have finally been discussed in this draft. I'm happy to have our multipolar world analysis adopted and included in the plan. In January, I stated from this bench that the world has changed rapidly in the last six years. The monopolar world is about to run out of its own balance structure and its future. The belief that the world's monopolar balance has ended and is being replaced by multipolar world order has increased. These ideas have become accepted not only for developed countries, but also for less developed and developing countries. No matter what we remove in terms of new global balances, South East Asian countries, BRICS countries are now under way. These countries have become world-growing locomotives, competing against developed countries. Today, the developed countries of the world are rapidly diversifying the balance of power, sustainability, and even losing in the face of extraordinary economic and global power concentrated by these countries. Advanced countries have begun to seek integration and co-operation in Eastern Europe and the Black Sea countries in order to stabilize the countries of Southeast Asia. We read them, we hear them, but unfortunately, we don't recognize if power is aware of such developments. Our country's Tenth Development Plan, which should have a basic strategy document between 2014-2018, claims to have a very large-sized, holistic look. But this point of view, which claims to be multidimensional, involves remarkable shortcomings and differences. For example, the entry part of this plan, which we are discussing into the European Union's accession process, proposed to be the engine of development during the previous planning period, has never been mentioned. The world is beginning to see international regionalisation movements as a fundamental strategic breakthrough in setting new balances in the future, while the tenth Plan has been considered very weak. The ninth Plan included developments in the Far East and the effects of them on the world, while the Tenth Plan was heavily assigned to the Middle East, and to the Islamic countries in the Gulf region. The plan also includes global imbalances in the world, while the projections of which trends have not been included for new balancing studies, and which trends have begun to gain weight have been largely inadequate. However, a new period of regionalisation has been entered in the world. Strong regional economic integration alternatives arise as the best option for the facility of global balances again in peaceful ways. Here, just a few months ago, the EU and the United States signed the most important free trade agreement in the history of the world, aiming to increase their growth rate by 1.5 per cent. Moreover, this free trade agreement was described as a basic agreement to shape the future in the final declaration of the G-8 summit in Northern Ireland recently. So, how were we prepared for this? How would we be affected by these developments? What were our alternative policies? And how are we supposed to draw a road map when we're going to be affected by this agreement because we're a member of the customs union? Indeed, we would like to be able to answer those questions, but we are not surprised. The analysis of the world was not surprising to us that the ruling party, which consists of Mr. Secretary of State's unfettered policies, did not draw such a comprehensive strategy. I would like to renew a historical warning here: The government must wake up immediately, thinking of new Ottomanism once presented in the Middle East, to abandon its desire for cooperation and integration in unstable areas. Stability is as contagious as a disease, and it has begun to spread from the southern part of Antioch. It should not be forgotten that Turkey's regionalization options depend not only on emotional preferences, but on new international conjuncture, new macroeconomic balances, new multipolar world geopolitics. The plan talks about co-operation mechanisms such as common or qualitative industrial areas, common economic spaces, which have special economic co-operation methods in order to assess trade and investment potential with neighbouring countries and countries in the region. I'm sure the good intentions of our bureaucrats who came up with the plan. However, the ruling party tried to prepare the Shamgen area by entering into a similar construction business with its once-great ally, Syria, but at the moment that came today, the AKP mentality made Turkey a part of the civil war in Syria, and naturally this breakthrough failed. Such comprehensive and important co-operation projects could not be implemented by the AKP. The plan should refer to different regional centres, but Turkey's strategies for competition and co-operation with these centres are unfortunately not highlighted. However, in recent discussions on US foreign policy, there has been talk of a turning from the Middle East to the Asian Pacific region. It is now said that China is heading west. Meanwhile, Asia is marked by an interesting and future problem-seeking dilemma. Members, the government has not understood the course of the world and the new preferences of great powers. The improved strategy won't have a chance. This will only help to send the AKP to the depths of history, because if you don't understand the world, then the world, after the events of travel, will not, as you understand and grasp, recognize you, will not stand behind you. See, even with the EU, which constitutes close to 50 per cent of our exports, a clear future goal has not been set. On the same day, on October 3, 2005, Croatia, which we started together, is now joining the EU. What happened to our EU perspective? You have Syria, Iran, the EU, the Turkish Republics, whatever you're holding. And now the world is about to come to you. I wish you all the best! Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit03spe0104par0164	Thank you. So the talks on the second part of the plan are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0104par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 127th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We will resume the meeting of the 10th Development Plan and Budget Commission Report, 476 rows. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that paragraph 142 of the Tenth Development Plan be changed in the following way and that the following paragraphs be added after paragraph 144. Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Mehmet Günal 142. The pride and consciousness of decentness to the Turkish nation, the ability to absorb our religious and cultural values, the ability to think, perceive and solve problems, open to new developments, sense of responsibility and social sensibility, and the production of scientific and technology, is the primary goal of our educational policy. The equality of opportunities and opportunities in education and teaching will be essential for all members of the community to be trained in terms of interest, orientation, and abilities. To achieve its goal, 2023 Leader Country will be trained in manpower, which is sensitive to labor demand, with the necessary hardware and skill flexibility. 145. Education is in Turkish at every level of education and can't be studied in any other language other than Turkish. It will be important to teach Turkish well in the primary and the main class, which provides the right and good use of Turkish. 146. The education system will be restructured to ensure the development of advanced human power, a technology culture equipped with the knowledge and skills required by the knowledge society, with international competitiveness. In this framework, educational venues, educational technologies and manpower opportunities will be upgraded to the standards required by the knowledge society in terms of quality and quantity. 147. The planning and implementation of the curriculum in each level of education will be essential in accordance with the requirements of national and age. 148. National unity and integrity will be provided by the state's hands in the schools, where we believe that it has contributed substantially to the intimacy between the citizens and the state and to the elimination of various prejudices. 149. Pre-school education will be extended to nine years of mandatory basic education, including a six-year-old group, and it will be co-ordinated in two stages. In this framework, pre-school education will be popularized to improve national integrity awareness, strengthen moral and spiritual values and provide socialization, and pre-school education will be expanded, including physical space, manpower and program opportunities, which will allow the population in this age group to be part of the knitting program at an earlier age. 150. In primary school, computer-sponsored "recognition" techniques will be developed and effective with skill-based evaluation methods, and electives will be weighted in order to help identify skills and direct the profession from the sixth and seventh grade. Special education will be provided for students with superior intelligence and superior skills. Highly successful secondary school students will be allowed to continue their studies without examinations and state scholarships based on their interests, requests and abilities. 151. The definition of individuals in need of special education, categorisation, publicisation of private educational institutions and auditing will allow education programmes to be evaluated according to the needs of the day. Private education services will be expanded to include preschool education, primary education, secondary education, higher education and adults. Special education teacher and assistant staff will be considered important. 152. In order to raise the inter-personal power needed by the economy, knitting and general vocational-technical education will be weighted, and training programmes will be redesigned based on professional standards. The part of vocational education that increases employmentability will be increased in secondary education. Programme integrity will be provided between vocational and technical secondary schools and vocational universities of applied sciences. The relationship, communication and interaction between working life and vocational and technical education will be developed. 153. Moderate education will be restored to a structure based on the type of program, allowing horizontal and vertical transitions, providing an active transition to the university system through modern guidance and guidance. 154. It will be essential that universities become educational institutions that grow the manpower that our country needs, produce science and technology by doing research, lead social development, provide solutions through scientific methods, compete with world universities. The universities will also be able to specialize in the potential of localities. An effective quality assessment and control system will be created and encouraged to establish a private university. 155. The Higher Education Board (OHR) will be transformed into a structure responsible for regulation, guidance, co-ordination, planning and control; universities will be able to be autonomous and accountable administratively and financially. In universities, the president will be appointed by the candidate president, who received more than 50 per cent of the two candidates who won the second-level vote as a result of the democratic election process, which will be implemented in two stages. 156. The university entrance exam will be lifted, and instead the transition system will be applied to the university, which is based on effective instruction in elementary school and secondary school, and will be applied to secondary school success and the education examination at the end of secondary school. 157. With the knowledge of the age, teachers and professors will be trained, whose professions will be attractive under the conditions of work and by the nature and social rights. Research infrastructure and employment opportunities will be created to attract our universities for academic human power abroad for the purpose of grad schooling or teaching. The rights and employment of teachers and university professors will be raised to modern standards. 158. The spending of martyrs and veterans at all levels will be provided by the state and their access to higher education will be reserved for them. 159. Education opportunities for Turkish children abroad to protect and improve their national identity will be increased. Yes, it's Zuhal Topcu, Ankara MP who wants to talk about a motion that the government disagrees with.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0105par0029	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the paragraph of the Tenth Development Plan. Education is one of the most important indicators of development, the driving force of development, but we would like to point out, in particular, that the actions of education do not match much with the expressions we're talking about up there. When the Justice and Development Party came to power, a 7-year-old who had just started school today was 18 years old. The most important features of these young people are that they began training during the AKP ruling period and are currently continuing their education. Plans and programmes for education during the AKP's ruling period have been decisive and will be determined to shape the future of these children. It is possible that when we evaluate the Tenth Development Plan of these markers, we can also see the heads that are not on the ground. Your practices regarding teachers so far will be encouraged to work in disadvantaged areas and schools. In the eyes of the public, this power has made the teaching profession unreputable, making it so that hundreds of thousands of non-assigned teachers have fallen victim to the streets. Teachers who work in the current system face constant threats, let alone incentives. The Ministry of National Education has not even been able to properly manage the transfers of teachers, and they've screwed it up. Again, according to the plan -- the transition system to secondary school and higher education -- it is said that students will be introduced to a system that takes into account interest and ability. No one believes in them anymore, because during 11 years of power, the opposite practices have been found. The statement of the Minister of National Education, Avcı, on the transition system to secondary school also showed that there was an unprepared and inexperienced team in the work. One day the Minister comes before the press, we remove the SBS. He says, "Then the school will affect the scores." He says, "Then it's misunderstood... he's constantly trying to save the day with defenses like that." Again, the Tenth Development Plan mentions reduced school species and flexible transitions between programmes. Flat high school signs were ripped out and turned into Anatolian high schools. In national education, all problems have been resolved. We need to realize that 1,800,000 students who took the test had not even four questions from science, but that they were telling us too much. In particular, the SEC, which you were a victim of before you came to power, which you promised would be replaced on every platform, is now your bat. The SEC law, which you can't even reconcile with yourself in 11 years, is still not shared with the public. The rights of academics during your time have been destroyed. On the basis of accountability in the Tenth Development Plan, higher education institutions will be transformed into a quality-oriented, competitive structure under the principles of autonomy, performance-orientedness and residency and diversity. In the day when quality in education is reduced to the number of classrooms, the number of schools and the number of computers, and the transformation of mentality cannot be done, we will not be able to talk about accountability, performance-focused and integration. In particular, in the past five years, the increase in percentages of university graduates in total unemployed has become alarming. In five minutes, of course, it doesn't seem possible for us to fit a lot of problems. In particular, the reports of the 4+4 educational system today in the press have shown that national education is in a very critical state, and now the numbers give us that the system is bankrupt. We, the MPHP, particularly as the National Movement Party, are proposing that education policies, which are grounded, consistent, can be realized and embrace the future, are now urgently developed and implemented. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0106par0041	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in paragraph 157 of the current Tenth Development Plan. Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Mehmet Günal 157. The infrastructure of information and communication technology will be developed in the environment and widespread educational institutions, and students and teachers will be allowed to use these technologies. Qualification of technology's integration into education and quantitative indicators will be developed and evaluated for impact.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0107par0051	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0106par0052	I'm having it read. The FATHIH Project is a multi-cost project with very different effects. What the economic cost of 16 million tablet computers will be, as highlighted in the project, is that Turkey will be able to produce, and there will be a hidden cost and problems in the use of millions of tablets, maintenance will go away, and this project has been put into motion without a study of how to overcome its problems. In addition, it is not clear why a tablet computer, which is estimated to be distributed to students for free and at approximately $1,600 the price of one, was preferred instead of a laptop that was reduced to $300. In warnings issued by units such as the World Health Organization and the International Electromagnetic Security Commission, emphasises that the use of children's Internet and mobile phones should be restricted, and in many countries of the world, the use of 3G or Wi-fi devices is blocked, while the ministry has not considered how to provide an infrastructure for 15 million students in Turkey, not only from a technical point of view, but first from health and safety. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of paragraph 173 of the Tenth Development Plan, number 476, and the addition of the following paragraphs after paragraph 174. Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Mehmet Günal 173. A health system will be established that improves the quality of life and the joy of living, prolongs human life, makes life meaningful and valuable, based on the satisfaction of citizens and servants. 175. In accordance with the principles of foster health care and basic health care, equality and rights, it will be accessible, available, and presented freely by the state, with respect to patient rights. The first step will be strengthened by health care units and the application of "Family Medicine," which citizens will apply directly to. 176. Hospitals' technological infrastructure and manpower will be improved, their capacity for governance will be developed. The hospital's patient bed will be provided with "full day-to-day capacity" for better use of hardware and manpower capacity. 177. Private health institutions will be encouraged, and health free zones will be created for the development of health tourism. 178. Health insurance will be extended to the entire population, and all citizens will have the right to choose hospitals and physicians. 179. The production of drugs, vaccines, serums and medical equipment in Turkey will be encouraged by RD activities on this issue. Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0108par0072	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in this part of the development program, we can see clearly what a contrast is to what the Justice and Development Party has been presented as a development project, especially during its ten-year mandate. In particular, after the practice of family medicine began, there was a strong opposition to the chain of transport, and again, in ten years' time, there was a statement that the chain of transport would be returned to the second and third digits, making clear the error, the contradiction of previous actions. Other than that, in health, as we've always said, at the heart of what's really happening, we should never ignore the fact that doctors should be raised at the point of the health of society's well-being. So if you do not focus on the physician who provides the basic work in these health projects, then it will not be possible to improve the quality of health care, improve the quality of health care, reduce the burden that health has put on the budget. Therefore, the priority is to prioritize sensitivity at points such as education in medical schools, the upbringing of physicians, the distribution of physicians. However, when we look at the program, we can clearly see that the increasing amount of drug spending in the field of health care in Turkey, although the price of medicine has been very low, is not consistent with the significant increase in the number of boxes. With a program like this, it really won't be possible to get results in health. For him, the first job that needs to be done is to improve only the physical infrastructure of hospitals, which provides health care beyond increasing the number of beds, making the basic point in health care, better quality, more conscious, more educated society needs to be put on the first goal as the main element. If these are not carried out, there will be no truly accessible, efficient, quality service presentation throughout society. There is no quality service presentation in health today when you apply a program the same way in ten years with a system that is referred to as a performance system and often criticised. So when you put together the transformation program in health, what has been done in the last ten years, and what you've done in the next decade, what you've done in the previous decade, it's either wrong or the next decade, your goals don't match. So, as we put it, increasing the quality of health care should be essential. In order to improve quality, we also believe that the importance of medical education in Turkey must be reconsidered. If you are conscious, without the ability to raise a physician who can use time ideally, quality and quality, if you don't calculate your training at this point, doctors will be raised at this point, then a burden that can't be dealt with in health will be condemned to be put on all of us's necks again. Such a large amount for health expenditures in Turkey is also accessible, accessible, and available, but that does not also mean that service is quality. At the same time, despite the basic rights and freedoms of individuals in health, it is also contrary to the basic principle of the state that they make serious economic contributions to health from their own budgets. That's why we need to review the transformation in health. It is either necessary to correct the previous ten years of activity or to compare what you have proposed in the next ten years. In health, basically, the dissatisfaction that employees face in today's conditions, the violence that health workers face is actually proportional to the fact that accessibility is so easy, but it's important that it's easy to reach, but we can't make society healthier without the quality of service, he says, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0109par0079	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. It's number 10 in the 476th row. The five-year Development Plan will destroy the healthcare sector (the production of devices and waste materials) when it predicts the construction and operating of hospitals with the Public Special Co-operation Model. That's why it's 10. In this way, we offer and propose that hospital investments be limited to a hospital for each province. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Küreli Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Aydın Agha Ayadın He wants to speak on the motion, Bulent Kuşoğlu Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0110par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to a motion on the Tenth Annual Development Plan. Here's the thing, dear MPs, you know health is a very important issue. Health costs are constantly increasing with us. In the previous planning period, there was a constant increase in the ninth Plan period, and the increase in health spending as expressed in the Tenth Annual Development Plan is an important problem, and it will continue to increase, and it must be prevented, because health expenditures are largely based on equipment in the health sector, based on waste materials, new technology, high technology. High-tech is an area that we import from outside, especially in health. We pay a lot of money to import high-tech technology in health, to import high-tech equipment and spending materials. This is a major problem, especially in developing countries like ours. Now, the plan took this as a target, but on the other hand, before that, I'd like to point out that the healthcare sector based on this device that we have is about $2 billion in sectors. 85 percent of this is based on imports, 15 percent is domestic production, and there has recently been an increase in that over the past 20, 25 years. There has been a significant increase in production of equipment and waste products in our healthcare sector. 15 percent of the industry is now local. That's got to go up, too. Specially recently, biomedical engineering had never existed before, and biomedical engineers began graduating. People who know the subject. The sector is slowly developing, but at this point, we have brought the establishment of hospitals, hospital construction and operating through this public-special collaboration. Now, through public-private cooperation, hospital construction and operating require foreign money, which requires financing. Where's this gonna come from? The corporations that can afford this money, the corporations that buy these tenders, will bring it from their own country. He'll bring funding from his own country, his own country, depending on this financing, he'll bring his equipment, his spending material. At least twenty-five years in public-special cooperation; we're bidding on 25 years, twenty-five years, thirty years. For at least 25 years, 30 years, from the outside, dependent on the outside, he will bring devices from his own country, and he will bring the spending material. This 15 per cent is also going to die, and the Turkish health sector is going to die, and it's going to be in trouble; it's going to be unresolved; it's going to be an area where health spending is constantly increasing. While we discussed this in the Commission, we also expressed it in the General Assembly, but we will make a special judgment on the terms of the tender, and we will bring the provision of some from Turkey in order to encourage domestic production. It is said that this is not a valid reason, it is not a logical reason to stop it. We, for him, have, at least, brought the constraint of hospital production and operating with this public-private cooperation model. That makes perfect sense. No planner, no one who wants to see the future, can say no. We think rationally because the work is ultimately wrong. So on the one hand, you want to control health care, you want to reduce it, right, but on the other hand, you're doing everything in practice to increase it. There's got to be a logical solution here. There's got to be a limitation on the initial tenders, a middle ground. That's what we're suggesting. I think it's good for government policy, and it's good for our future. Turkey needs to be a country that can save money. This is one of the things the plan envisions. That's why I made a promise. I give you all my regards at this hour of the night, and I bid you good evening.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0111par0095	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly X number 476 in sight. The development plan is 197. We ask that the paragraph be sent back to the government to be changed in the following way. ▪ 197. In addition to the physical and technical infrastructure needs of courts and criminal execution institutions, the human need will be first met. Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Rahmi The Dire of Love, Aydın Agha Ayayad Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0112par0107	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I've been promised a motion on the 10th Development Plan, 476 rows, and I salute you all. First of all, in the process of drafting the development plan, I'd like to say that the lacks of participation have been noted: that whoever was involved in the preparation of this plan has been given the opportunity of lawmakers to participate in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The plan was handed out to our congressman friends this morning. So most of us will accept this plan without having a chance to read it, without even having a chance to read it, and I want to stress that this is not the right approach. That logic is already reflected in the justice department. When justice-related situation detection and goals are evaluated, implementation policies are all 15 paragraphs. In either of these 15 paragraphs, there are no people, only one of them has a sentence on prosecutorial training. In Turkey, however, justice needs judges, prosecutors and court staff who have a conscience, who believe in the rule of law, rather than palaces of justice. What we're trying to bring up in this article is that these penal and execution institutions and the need for the physical and technical infrastructure of the courts should be the priority of the human being. We're gonna put a man in the middle of a courthouse where conscience will decide, and we're gonna put a man in the middle of a courthouse where democracy will win. If we have such a proposal for the next five years -- so if we have a goal only to regulate and improve the physical and technical infrastructure of courthouses and criminal execution institutions -- we're going to have tough cases again in the coming days. Now, when we look at the Ninth Development Plan, the same sentences are written on page 5220 and 321, and we say there are hundreds of thousands of lawsuits in Turkey that are not in line with justice. These cases must be filed as follows: The number of criminal cases filed per 100,000 persons is 2,260 in Turkey and 549 in Spain. So we're going to get you into this, and we're going to see how the number of judges in Turkey has improved in your era. As of 2012, the number of judges fell to 100,000 people in Turkey was 24 in 9 Germany. At this point, if the plan does not take into account the human element, the judge, the prosecutor and the inter-service staff, you will not consider the Anti-Terror Law, the law on freedom of organization, the election laws, the election dam, and other demands for democratisation, which will result in a very dangerous outcome for Turkey. If we're not going to discuss the 10% threshold for representation in Turkey at the next 10th Plan for the next five years, where are we going to discuss it? If we don't put this in front of us as a target, I consider democracy to be no chance to place human rights, freedoms, and therefore I ask you to support our human weighted motion in paragraph 197. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0113par0112	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey It's number 10 in the 476th row. We would like to add the following statement to the conclusion of the development plan 213, 217, 219, 220 and 228. With all due respect, == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Süleyman Çelebi Aydın Agha Ayadın Musa Pine Public institutions and institutions do not employ people. Yes, Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0114par0127	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on the meeting of the Tenth Annual Development Plan. I salute you all. Dear friends, this plan has been mentioned many times, a plan that has really lost its faith. Because it was obvious that neither ministers nor lawmakers attended meetings in the hall until the time of the vote was coming up from the start of the talks, and it was in front of all of us. Sometimes it's down to 40, the number of lawmakers. And from that, the plan is unbelief. The plan, really, especially the chapter on basic rights and freedoms that I've promised, in a way, should be the basis of this Ten Years Plan, because there is no chance of success in a plan that doesn't value people, that doesn't value work. This plan excludes labor, excludes human beings. I'm sorry to say here that I thank you for the efforts of the bureaucrats who prepared the plan, but obviously they're off-limits because the plan, especially in the department of basic rights and freedoms, has tremendously, gravely wrongs, mistakes. For example, there is talk of the approval of the revised European Social Condition, but Turkey has not signed or signed the third joke of Article 2 of the revised European Social Condition, the first joke of Article 4 of Article 5, and Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 5. In addition, it is one of the two countries that does not approve of Articles 5 and 6 and one of the countries is Greece. Again, in a country that withholds fair, affordable wages and four weeks' leave per month, it's very bad if the ruling people still write these sentences as lies to this document. Again, even though the amendment to fundamental rights and freedoms of the Constitution in particular has been made in accordance with the amendment to Article 90 of the Constitution, the international agreements and internal law provisions will be valid, lawmakers are still prisoners in Turkey, which is enough to present a conflicting situation. The Law on Meetings and Demonstrations was also called an effective struggle with torture and abuse to base it on the democratic basis of its use. In recent months, however, abuse and torture have been given, especially in travel actions, and you have written awards to policemen who have been exposed to violence that has never occurred in Turkey and who have fought against their people. After tomorrow, you'll witness the arrangements for this in the next bag of law. So wherever you look at this plan, it's a plan full of contradictions, no reality, no credibility. Again, in the same arrangement, the paragraph 228 is called the removal of the restrictions imposed on the right to strike and on the right to strike. And that is a lie, and the removal has been increased. In the past year, just as a taxi-related arrangement has been made today, the HAVA-ist branch has been banned from strike, Hamdi Agha has fired 305 workers since then, refusing to return to work despite judicial decisions, and the government has also been watching. Again, the Istanbul Securities Stock Exchange is also under the curfew of a strike in the middle of the night with Article 119. The civil servants and other public servants are entitled to a collective contract, which is true, but incomplete. Because collective agreements are subject to investigation, free collective agreements don't exist here either. Again, during the AKP period, the number of subcontractors that were not present before him has exceeded 500,000, and despite the efforts of all opposition parties, power resists, resists, resists, resists, resists, legalises the subcontractor system, and tends to put labour exploitation on the line. That's why we've asked for this motion to be passed on to this plan. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0115par0138	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. X number 476 in sight. We request that the development plan be sent back to the government to be replaced in the following way by paragraph 241. ▪241. The work of NGOs operating in the interest of national priorities and public interest will be supported in the democratic environment and with a more civil understanding. ▪ Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Rahmi The Dire of Love, Aydın Agha Ayayad Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0116par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, again, in paragraph 241 of the development plan, we're considering an arrangement for NGOs. Here, in our motion, we feel that a civil and democratic approach should be added to this clause. Because national priorities and NGOs operating in the interest of the public will first be supported. The article ▪ is a substance that can reach dangerous levels. What are the national priorities? Who is the one who has to identify national priorities, and for what purpose will this be used? Instead, NGOs should really be civilians, Democrats and be able to absorb democracy. That would not be the right approach if NGOs were organizations who would make custom policies and make custom studies. That society can't be claimed to be a civil society. In the past period in Turkey, when we look at the practices of city councils established in 2006 with the right approach to the City's Law, we see that they have not achieved their goal at all. About 200 municipalities once established the city council within 3,000-odd municipalities. When we ask why this is not encouraged to build, why is it not encouraged? The Ministry does not even know the number of city councils, but serious activities are being carried out in the working city councils. However, such institutions should be civil; they should be able to be flexible, able to adjust themselves according to local, regional, and the conditions that meet those needs. That's the logic of civility. Civilianity has to start in the head first, and then it has to walk away in practice. Now there are youth councils planned to be formed in the next process. If you assign the Ministry of Youth and Sports to the establishment of the youth councils, well, that would be wrong. The Ministry of Youth and Sports arranges and distributes the budget of youth councils. As you say, you also make youth councils dependent on the Minister of Sports, and he is never a civilian society, a democratic society. As I was saying earlier, if we don't pave the way for people's freedom of organization, we don't have a chance to create civil society if we go over people who want to be organized with pepper spray and TOMA. One of the most natural rights of human beings is the ability to gather freely within the Law of Meetings and Demonstrations, to convey their thoughts freely; that is the first duty of the state. If the government isn't doing its job, and it's opening different investigations to those who are doing its job, then the troubles are starting. For some reason, there is a brake in Turkey's criminal investigations against law enforcement until now. No prosecutor can take a serious step, no prosecutor can gather evidence, the cameras are turned off, the working cameras are broken, and our people are being taken away from their rights. Civil society's incentive, civil society's support, however, is a matter of priorities. If you put a limit on prioritizing NGOs as national priorities and public interest, you'll be out of civility, out of democracy, out of human rights. Therefore, this motion of ours is useful in accepting it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the next five years, we find this plan necessary. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0117par0160	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's a ten in sight. The 43rd page of the Development Plan will be provided with a family-based presentation of "social aid and services " in paragraph 250, which will be removed from the plan text and propose the addition of the following declaration. "The woman will be suspended from her free and unsecured work life with a family and home axis and will be included in the working life where the principle of equal wage and positive discrimination will be applied in the public area." İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Pervin Buldan I'm reading the reason: When working life is considered one of the basic conditions for being able to exist in other areas of social life, it is evident that women in our country are excluded from working life, which can also be considered social exclusion. The fact that she has been excluded from working life and imprisoned at home has also caused her to experience difficulties in accessing labour markets, income-profit activities, education and teaching opportunities, while also preventing her from establishing social and environmental networks and activities. Thus, the exclusion of a woman's working life brings exclusion from other aspects of social life. In this context, the family-based offering of social benefits and services will result in continued unemployment by receiving social benefits. Here, rather than on welfare, the use of the resource used for social welfare to open new jobs and include women in these areas may prevent the woman from being excluded from her current working life and locked in the house. This can serve as a starting point, not just in working life, but in removing the discrimination that women live in all areas of society. It will pave the way for her to be involved in social, cultural, social, and political life as women of self-esteem, rather than a woman of family and social benefits. Because at the point of resolving inequality and injustice between private space and public space, the work of a woman in the public field plays a key role. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's a ten in sight. 2.1.11 found on page 188 of the Development Plan. "In an agreement with social parties in areas such as guaranteed flexible work, severance pay, sub-employment, social dialogue, active and passive labor programmes in order to increase efficiency in the labour market," paragraph 312. We offer and propose that his sentence be removed from the plan text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Pervin Buldan I'm reading the reason: In the part where the assessments of the situation in employment and working life are made, it is wrong in terms of the plan technique to point to what needs to be done in the future. In addition, many problems in working life stem from the spread of job accidents, professional illness, the number of union members from the lowness of employment, the bans on strikes, the unreputed employment of trade unions, the use of unregistered employment funds, the sub-employment system, which is called sub-employment, the spread of flexible, unsecured, non-unionary work. Our proposal aims to prevent subcontractorization and flexible, uncompromising work that stems problems in working life. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 10th Development Plan is 314-323. Change the lu paragraphs to the following way and to paragraph 328. We propose and provide the addition of the following paragraphs to come after the paragraph. Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Mehmet Günal 314. The main focus of the fight against unemployment will be the implementation of employment-based sustainable growth, boosting the level of employment and the establishment of the entrepreneur-oriented market. In this framework, the implementation of the economic programme, which is based on full employment, which will effectively and efficiently include all of Turkey's production factors, will move from the rant economy to the production economy, which envisions continuing boosting investment-producing integration. 315. A suitable investment climate for private enterprises to make long-term investment decisions will be created, small and medium-scale enterprises will be supported, and direct investments by foreign capital to create added value and employment. 316. The business and investment environment will be improved, providing high-velocity value, and operating in high efficiency will be supported. Youths with a university and vocational degree who want to start their own business will be supported. In order to encourage the employment of long-term unemployed, young people, women, and disadvantaged groups, the policy of "instruction-based" will be implemented effectively, with benefits for each additional employee, such as insurance premiums, private tax and energy costs. 317. The tax on employment and social security will be reduced. 318. The number of bureaucratic transactions related to investing and employing employees will be reduced and its duration will be shortened, with offices related to organised industrial areas and industry and trade will be opened and brought to the entrepreneur's feet by opening taxes, insurance and finance. Laws that lead to unregistered employment, including costs, lack of supervision, bureaucracy, will be encouraged to be registered, and measures aimed at preventing illegal foreign workers' employment will be enabled. This framework will provide deterrent punishments for illegal foreign employment. 319. The average level of education of society will be improved by the level of employment and employment of human capital and labour, provided that the average level of education is upgraded and qualified. A strong bond between the education system and the labour market will be established and will be provided with the quality and quantity of manpower that businesses need. 320. The average training period of the labour force will be increased, life-long learning culture will be developed, vocational education standards will be improved, and the market will be adopted, especially those with vocational training and skills for women will be expanded, and entrepreneurial training will be given to those who will start their own work. 321. Private employment offices offering vocational education, retraining, integration and counselling will be supported. 322. Professional training programmes will be implemented to promote disabled people, poor people, long-term unemployed, young people and women's participation in the labour market and to give them professional qualifications to find jobs. Active labour force programmes, such as entrepreneurial training, employment guaranteed programmes, vocational counselling, guidance services, training seminars in businesses, labourforce growth and vocational training courses, will be enabled and expanded in the framework of employment market analysis. The programme integrity between vocational education and higher education will be provided, weighted by applied vocational education, allowing businesses and professional institutions to take an active role in the process. 323. If martyrs and veterans want to carry out their parents' professions, such professions will be taken directly by those who have the necessary conditions. Veterans, families of martyrs, victims and disabled persons in the fight against terrorism will be made to contribute to production by putting them to work in the first place. 329. For citizens to be sure of their future and to live a high standard life, the social insurance system will be established in modern norms that operate on the basis of blessing-trust, covering the entire population. 330. The social insurance system will be "compliable" as of its legal size, "sustainable" as of its financial size and "acceptable" by relevant parties. The information technologies of the social security system will be strengthened, a structure that will provide effective, accessible and sustainable services that prevent loss of rights and multiple benefits. Social insurance programmes will be run in an effective and autonomous structure in the active balance, and funds management will be enabled to ensure the sustainability of the system. 331. Uninsured work and work will be prevented and the number of active insurancees will be increased and the sustainability of both the system and the victimization of the insured will be prevented. Laws leading to unregistered employment will be encouraged to register on issues such as costs, lack of supervision, bureaucracy. Thirty-two. The labour legislation will be presented in a manner in which workers and employers' rights are balanced. Unional rights will be adjusted to modern norms. Multiple consulting mechanisms in working life will be strengthened and effective participation of the parties will be provided for the solution of problems in working life and for the establishment of work peace. The fee among the employees will compensate for the imbalance, creating a pay system based on merit and success. 333. All initiatives will be made within the framework of international law and interstate relations regarding the protection of the rights and law of our citizens abroad and the resolving of the problems and difficulties they face in their countries.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0118par0208	Motive.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0117par0209	I'm having it read. In the coming period, the Tenth Development Plan, which is expected to be a guiding tool for decision-makers to direct our resources to areas that are producing more prosperity, does not, unfortunately, carry those characteristics. In terms of shape and content, there appears to be significant differences in previous plans. First of all, this plan has no vision. The vision department as a department has been removed and has no basic vision, such as the previous plans. Compared to previous plans, it appears at first that our country has its priorities that it needs, but when it is examined in depth, it is prepared with a non-specific and inclusive approach to all matters. This framework aims to include concrete proposals in the Party Programme of the MHP and in the 2011 Election Statement in the Plan text so that the plan can achieve its goal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's number 10 in the 476th row. Development Plan 320-321-322 and 569. We request that your paragraphs be removed from the Plan text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Bulent Kuşoğlu Müslim Sarı Musa Çam Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0119par0227	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, I told you earlier in my speech, this is the Tenth Annual Plan, which unfortunately excludes labor. There's nothing to be concerned about, because on the first page of the Prime Ministerial Investment Support and Promotion Agency, until a month ago, Turkey is the most suitable country for investment environments in the world, because we have the longest working environment, which has reached fifty-four hours a week, and on the other hand, its workers are the least ill country. Four and a half days a year, he declared the Prime Minister. Of course, the Prime Minister would make such an ad and our plan makers would rule it out! See, paragraph 319, titled employment and working life, is called the 319th paragraph, which will improve the working conditions of the human work context. Yesterday was Sunday. 16 workers from the Marzinc factory, founded in Karabuk (Karbuk) on Sunday, feel sick, and come to the Occupational Disease Hospital here. They're putting 16 of them in the hospital. Seriously, it's been six months, minimum wage. They produce iron dust in the chimneys of iron factories - mercury, lead, and other dangerous materials -- almost all of their lungs have already collapsed. On the other hand, in paragraph 320, in dialogue with the social parties, all workers will be able to access the severance system based on individual account. Dear friends, in the ongoing section again, sub-employment at 321, and in 322, the application of temporary employment through private employment offices will be popularized through the norms of the EU. In paragraph 383, which can be added to this, the employment of qualified manpower in careers will be encouraged. It is called "The employment of manpower." The 385 (P.S.) will be started in the public staff system, starting with the appropriate work and establishments. That means we're going to put grass on the officers. Dear friends, of course, I've just told you, a plan predicts the future, projects the future when it's being prepared, and some arrangements are set up after the work. This plan, however, is nothing more than what the Prime Minister said in the past, or a few phrases that the Prime Minister accidentally said, by a couple of kiss-ass people, noting that I'm not afraid to say. Because the Prime Minister commands and says: "Spend the Tabheron system in Turkey." Because the merchant mentality, the sub-employment system is widespread. And for that to happen immediately, their numbers are growing, and there's an arrangement... there's a Business Act in this country. Not every institution needs a separate working law. 48 per cent of the employees work for minimum wage, almost all of the subcontractors work for minimum wage, so you have made it clear in this plan to equalise workers' wages and working conditions with China. In the past, two and a half years ago, you wrote these things in your government programme, on the 49th page of your government programme, and on the National Employment Strategy Document, which you hesitated to disclose for two years. Now, getting up and putting those texts into the program as the target of,2014-2019 is enough to prove that the plan has no meaning but copying or deregulation of what the Prime Minister said. So you're saying that in career jobs, qualified manpower will be encouraged. After tomorrow, the bag of law will come. If we hadn't stood up there as opposition lawmakers... with the career professions of State Officers Act 657, we've seen what you've done to the State Department of Foreign Affairs, a career institution, a career embassy, in the first instance of the proposal. Now, we're going to get up here, we're going to encourage, we're going to encourage. The approach, like this, is nothing but a memorization of public personnel regimes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're going to dynamite the working relationship, which means we don't need a plan, the Prime Minister and your government are doing enough. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0120par0239	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that paragraph 758 of the Tenth Development Plan be changed in the following way and that the following paragraphs be added after paragraph 760. Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Mehmet Günal 758. Agricultural sector is based on a structure that produces high efficiency and quality products, can use technology, can feed people in the country, and has a high export capacity, can contribute sustainablely to growth. The agricultural sector will be integrated with production, processing and marketing dimensions. 761. Agricultural supports will be structured with an understanding that takes into account product supply and demand, enhances producer prosperity, reduces input costs, maintains the balance of production cost and product price, protects against disaster, aims to increase productivity, efficiency, efficiency and quality. In this scope, the rate of state support for agriculture will be raised to 1.5 per cent to GDP. 762. EV and VAT will be removed on basic agricultural entries such as diesel, fertilizer, medicine, seedling, seedlings, for support of small farmers. The OTV and VAT on these entries used by farmers who produce on a medium and large scale will be gradually reduced by 50 per cent. The price of electricity used in irrigation and agricultural businesses will be differentiated, allowing our farmers to use cheap electricity. 763. The strengthening of productive organisations, boosting the competitiveness of agricultural enterprises and the development of marketing networks will be weighted. 764. In accordance with our country's requirements, seeds, seedlings, saplings, and breeding animals will be supported and produced, and external dependency will cease. In addition to biological warfare against the harmful, alternative means of combat will be given priority, while the production of ecological products will be encouraged, considering agricultural struggle, modern plant protection and food safety. 765. The diversification of agricultural products, increasing efficiency and quality, decentralisation of employment and employment value, creating basic agricultural structures based on marketing as brands; the development of investment and technology will be established by the rural cities of agriculture and industry, which are the centers of attractions to rural areas. 766. The aimless use and disintegration of agricultural areas will prevent contamination of soil and water resources, and the farmer will be conscious of efficient and efficient use of fertilizer, medicine and water resources. 767. In our country, food safety and credibility will be delivered to modern norms, providing consumer protection and awareness. 768. The future trading markets, an important tool for maintaining price stability in agricultural products, will be activated, the product markets will be developed, and licensed storage will be expanded, and the product insurance system and contract farming establishments will be developed to protect our farmer and product against risks. 769. To ensure our society's animal proteins are balanced, adequate, and healthy, livestock will be supported, animal rehabilitation, quality food and food plants will be increased, animal diseases and pests will be effectively battled, animal products will be popularized throughout the country. 770. The OCEs, which operate in the agricultural sector, will be ensured that agricultural sales co-ops and banks will be provided with rational work and will be fully supported by a structure that will support the agricultural sector. In co-operation with agricultural research institutes and universities, research, development and control activities will enable high-incremental agricultural products to be obtained.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0121par0259	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0120par0260	I'm reading the reason: In the coming period, the Tenth Development Plan, which is expected to be a guiding tool for decision-makers to direct our resources to areas that are producing more prosperity, does not, unfortunately, carry those characteristics. In terms of shape and content, there appears to be significant differences in previous plans. First of all, this plan has no vision. The vision department as a department has been removed and has no basic vision, such as the previous plans. Compared to previous plans, it appears at first that our country has its priorities that it needs, but when it is examined in depth, it is prepared with a non-specific and inclusive approach to all matters. This framework aims to include concrete proposals in the Party Programme of the MHP and in the 2011 Election Statement in the Plan text so that the plan can achieve its goal. The agricultural sector must be brought to a high efficiency and high quality product-making, technology-using, feeding and export capacity. An organizational and competitive structure that monitors the balanced use of natural resources, contributes sustainablely to growth should be ensured. The agricultural sector will be integrated with production, processing and marketing dimensions. Agricultural structure must be adapted to modern changes and transformations with physical, technological and social dimensions. To achieve all these goals, the agricultural sector must be effectively supported. The standard of our farmers' lives must be improved by increasing production, the processing of products, the providing of markets on the domestic and external markets. In this framework, measures should be taken to reduce the costs of our farmers, who were among the most victimised in society and who gave up their field during the AKP period, and who had been impounded by farms and agricultural machines, should be reduced and the cost of input should be reduced. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey It's number 10 in the 476th row. The development plan is 761. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the paragraph. Agricultural, your support will be given to the real manufacturers. It will be fought in the most efficient way with non-profit areas. İlhan Demirözöz Farit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Aydın Agha Ayadın Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0122par0282	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views on the Tenth Development Plan, the number 476. I salute you with respect and love in this moving part of the night. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. Yes, I would like to begin with an introduction to my current speech on the applause of my friends: If we had put an observer here today, I think those who could not plan to work in their own Assembly would have said that the Tenth Development Plan (HPP rows) was not normal. When we examine the plan, friends, I want to point out that just as the government has abandoned agriculture, just as it has left farmers and peasants to their fates, this plan has nothing to do with agriculture -- the slightest improvement, a forward proposal, nothing. According to data by the Turkish Statistical Agency, agricultural sites that were established between 2003 and 2012 were reduced from 24 million hectares to 20.6 million hectares. Farmers have moved away from their plantations and farmers say they are miserable at every turn. However, what we don't see here today, Mr. Minister of Agriculture is renting land from Sudan, friends, because there's no way in our country that the farmer can get away from his land. Then, when you study the plan, the section on agricultural support is based on 2006, and there is a large amount of agricultural support. But our friends who came up with this plan don't mention that according to the Agricultural Law in 2006, the source leaving the budget would not be less than 1 percent of the non-national population, and that the amount of support in the fuel with VAT and ETV came out of the farmers' pockets. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when we examine this plan again, you will find very brief chapters on the co-op. Because, unfortunately, when you look at the department of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, of the purposes of our ministry established under the law, there's also the incentive of co-operativeism, the part about co-optarianism has been removed. That's the same plan. And I'd like to give you a word about the irrigation. There are 28 million hectares of farmland in our country. Dear friends, the irrigable part of this is 16.7 million hectares, economically irrigated farmland 8.5 million hectares. 4.9 million hectares were watered by State Waterworks, Village Services and farmers. So what I want to say from here is that in the final part of the 760th article, you're saying that the current water transmissions and distribution facilities will accelerate the transition to the closed system by renovating the soil channels and the classical systems, and modern irrigation methods will be developed in the infield irrigations. Dear friends, so far it's 57% chance to water 8.5 million hectares of land. Well, then, at this rate, I think it's going to take a hundred years. Then isn't that where the government's view of agriculture intersects? I'd like to ask you specifically what public office and who we're going to do this watering business with. How will you manage the soil and water supply with whom? How will you access the current and healthy land information? Who are you going to build the national land database with, with which public agency? If you're referring to the land boards -- you're talking about civil society organizations -- you're throwing out six of the nine members. Then the testimony in this section is wrong; the soil and water resources have no management, the expression of how land and water resources are distributed, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit04spe0123par0293	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0123par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 10th Development Plan and Budget Commission Report, number 476. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that paragraph 785 of the Tenth Development Plan, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way, and that the following paragraphs be added after paragraph 785. Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Mehmet Günal Alim Iklu Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı 785. The reduction of energy external dependency, the production of resources without interruption and adequate production, a safe and environmental supply system, the efficient use of domestic energy sources, will be enabled to produce new energy technologies, especially nuclearly. 786. The quality and low-cost energy supply will be carried out. The planned and stable implementation of public energy investments will be encouraged by the investments of domestic and foreign capital in this area. Public enterprises operating in oil and gas search, extraction, transport, business and marketing will be met under one upper management, allowing competitiveness to be gained in international markets. 787. In energy planning and international agreements to be made, supply security will be established by the diversity of resources and countries. In this framework, investments in energy agriculture will be supported in biofuel production to reduce our country's energy dependence on energy and also to use its existing agricultural potential efficiently. 788. A healthy and efficient market will be created in the energy sector where private and public sector activities will be organised and supported, consumer rights protected, competition established. From the production of energy sources to the consumption of energy resources, each phase will also benefit from the possibilities of the private sector. 789. In order to meet the need for energy, investments envisioning the assessment of new and renewable energy sources and water potential and the use of alternative energy sources will be encouraged by research and development in this area. Having nuclear energy production technology is our primary goal, and nuclear power plants will be set up to ensure energy supply safety. On the other hand, our country will be provided with sensitive nuclear technology that includes advanced technologies that can be used at every level of science and technology. The water potential, one of the clean energy sources, will be used at the highest level to increase hydroelectric energy production. 790. TPAO's technical and economic capacity will be strengthened, international strategic partnerships will be built to speed up oil and gas exploration and production efforts. To transform our natural resources into economic value, such as oil, natural gas, precious mines, all opportunities will be set in motion through public-special-foreign capital co-operation and will also go to international partnerships in the interest of Turkey's national interests. The development of new technologies will be important in oil exploration and extraction activities. 794. Continuity and supply security will be provided for the supply of mineral and industrial raw materials needed by the country's economy. Instead of selling gold, thorium, boron, and so on as ore before it is processed, it will be sold using high-end technology to be converted into valuable new products. To this end, more resources will be earmarked for R&amp;D activities. Alim Ik, Kütahya MP, please.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0124par0020	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the National Movement Party Group on the 10th Development Plan's section on energy. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, development plans are a series of decisions that show the goals for the development of countries in the coming years and the goals they will achieve. In this sense, countries have very important places for their future. Thus, governments are based on carrying out their programs in line with the goals they set in these plans. However, in the energy sector, which has about a quarter of Turkey's total imports, and in the energy sector where import spending is equivalent to each year's current account deficit, unfortunately, the targets envisioned in this development plan are far from the goals that will be achieved when compared with the actual data in the past period. The goal of supply security, which is Turkey's main problem, unfortunately, has not been included in this plan. In this sense, goals that predict energy policies will be considered to be targeted, so to speak, in order to avoid bans, because they should be in the plan. Precious lawmakers, when surveyed of the targets, the 256/th page of the plan sees an increase in demand for electricity energy by about 33.7 per cent over the next five years, but when you look at the share of renewable energy sources from Turkey's most important sources in electricity production, you see that the rate of increase is only 4.7 per cent in these five years. This figure shows that Turkey's energy policy, as it has been during the AKP administrations so far, consists of natural gas-based power-based plants, private sectors, and targets for privatising public energy facilities and closing the current deficit. This is one of the key indicators in terms of energy policy that Turkey's future will not be very good. On the other hand, as has been implemented so far, policies that predict the cost of electricity used by many citizens who cannot be reduced by national tariffs and who do not pay for electricity are unfortunately included in this plan, so the theft of this country is protected. Once again, given the next five years of goals, those who steal from energy, thieves, will continue to be protected. Dear lawmakers, our country's energy policy, which is now on average 72 per cent dependent on the outside, will, unfortunately, continue to worsen, not better, with goals involved in this plan. The AKP government, which has not been able to assess the strategic position of this country, as it has so far, has not, unfortunately, set goals that will allow this to be evaluated in the coming period, so there has been no significant change in policy so far. Unfortunately, predictions about the support of renewable energy sources are insufficient. Thus, Turkey has not been able to reach renewable energy sources, which have already been envisioned for the past five years, due to the lack of energy policies. Studies on the construction of nuclear power plants are conducted in secret from the public. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The goals also seem inevitable that similar practice will continue. I wish the plan was a blessing, and I wish the energy sector a little more weight and a little more respect.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0125par0030	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 877th Development Plan in progress. We propose and propose that the following paragraph be added after the paragraph. Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Mehmet Günal 878. 2023 Turkey's Tourism Strategy envisions "2014-2018 2. The Action Plan" will be quickly activated in accordance with the conditions of the day, with the planned development, organisational coordination implementation method bases and targets needed in tourism, and the current congestions will be immediately resolved. In this framework, the Tourism Framework Act will be issued immediately. Mr. Shandır, motive?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0126par0041	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0125par0042	Let's read the reason. The 2023 Turkish Tourism Strategy envisioned in the year 2007-2013. The period of the Action Plan is spent and consumed. Despite repeated warnings, this plan has not been implemented, and the Tourism Framework Law Charter, the first and most important condition of this, has not even been implemented. There are only two Action Plans, which include 2014-2018 and 2019-2023, and there is an approach that assumes that the process will be destroyed. The fact that the 2023 Tourism Strategy has not even been mentioned in the Tenth Development Plan shows that the uncertainty that has been going on for years will continue in the coming period. The third part of the plan, including the Transformation Programmes, should include a separate tourism transforming programme, but not even the mention of the Tourism Strategy shows that the sector, which has a crucial contribution to closing the balance of payments, has been neglected. The Tourism Framework Act must be issued immediately, and the Tourism Action Plan must be prepared and implemented as a result of these shortcomings and the expected income from the tourism sector. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On page 285, page 958 of the Tenth Development Plan, which is now listed at 476 rows. We offer and propose that the paragraph of the paragraph be changed in the following way. 9958. It is the main goal of urban prosperity, construction and quality of life to improve the quality of urban prosperity, construction, and aesthetic dimensions of low physical space quality, with natural and industrial disaster risks, undermining infrastructure. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Turgut Dibek Haluk Ahmet Silver İzzet Cetin Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0127par0058	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, one of the headlines of the Tenth Development Plan is urban transformation and housing. Of course, they put the dwelling together in urban transformation, and I don't quite understand the purpose, but I'd like to say a few things about urban transformation. Our Minister of Environment and Urbanism is sitting in the back row, so I'm sure he'll listen. Now, a law has been passed in a relationship such as urban transformation equals reducing the risk of earthquakes. I'd like to say a few words about him. Of course, when we look at the goals of urban transformation in the Tenth Development Plan, we can't have a lot of objections, but the Law cannot reach those goals with regard to the Transformation of Areas Under Disaster 6306. When the definition of urban transformation is not even properly defined... what is urban transformation? The phenomenon we call urban transformation is a general expression of many different initiatives such as urban mass renovations or transformations, renovations for the necessary changes in the current urban structure, reconstruction, healthcare, protection, improvement. So, depending on what you do, where you do, how you do it, the urban transformation is different. Is urban transformation necessary in Turkey, in this way, to transform, renovate, improve, health care? Yes, it is. Why? Because given the lack of plans, negativity and many wrongs in Turkey's urbanization process, in the coming period, there is no doubt that the development and renovation policies envisioned in Turkey must sit on the axis of its urbanisation policies, but perhaps its ability to serve the purpose of urban transformation, due to the failure and unlawful behaviour of Law 6306, which the government has established for the risk of disaster. Although the Tenth Development Plan has set some goals for urban transformation, the government's Law 6306 does not seem likely to reach them. Urban transformation doesn't apply the same everywhere. In each region, housing situation, disaster types, people's social and economic problems differ; the location of the region within the city, the land price, and these are different. Because of all these differences, each region must have approaches to solve its own problem and practice accordingly. In urban transformation, lonely buildings are not cured. In the transformation, basic needs such as open and green areas, adequate health and education services, cultural facilities, healthy infrastructure, transportation opportunities must also be met. At the beginning of the urban transformation process, the existing plans need to be reassessed and to build a plan integrity. City parts should not be randomly interfered with. Today, thousands of independent and unnecessary constructions are being made in large cities. Plan renovations of the condensation-enhancing island and parcel scale should not be presented under the name "entity transformation." In addition, real estate development and activities in cities cannot be referred to under the name "Central Transformation." Transformation should be useful to the poor. Urban transformation is not the only type; these are the principles that must be accepted as partners for each application: it is essential that the people do not leave their dwellings; it is called transformation in place. The public must not pay too much for the renovation of its dwelling. The people must have a direct say in the decisions made about their neighborhood. For such principles to be brought to life, a transparent discussion must be created between the local and the public institutions that conduct urban transformations. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0128par0069	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 10th annual Development Plan is found on page 177. We offer and offer to add the following declaration to the title of the component. ▪ Making loan arrangements for women under positive discrimination in any form of loaning İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Adil Zozani I'm reading the reason: It is important that women be included in the plan text as an incentive to remove obstacles to their participation in economic life. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On page 178 of the 10th annual Development Plan. We propose and propose that the paragraph "the purpose and scope of the program be changed in the following way. "I. The financial centre practices are largely at risk of social and economic destruction as a result. Istanbul's efforts to become a financial centre have produced social casualties from urban transformation to different Rant fields. It is important that the effects of the financial centre's work be redefined within the framework of the expectations and proposals of the community by discussing with the people living in Istanbul." İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Adil Zozani I'm reading the reason: Decisions that will greatly affect all life in a city should be carried out as an important principle of democracy with the people living there. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's number 10 in the 476th row. The 3rd Annual Development Plan of the Five Year Development Plan. Among the programmes in his department, we offer and propose the removal of the Istanbul International Financial Centre Programme. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Aydın Ayan Ayaydın Rahmi Türeli of Love Musa Çam İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0129par0104	Mr. President, my dear friends, we are at the end of our negotiations. I salute you all. My dear friends, we've been in touch with Plan Ten, we've finished the negotiations. Let me ask you something about Plan Nine: Do you know what the 9th Plan was that was the least unsuccessful part of Plan 9 that was still in practice? It was that it couldn't be coordinated in harmony with the public. For him, a third chapter was brought into this plan by the Ministry of Development, where the department of primary transformation programmes was opened. Compliance with this was intended to be carried out in a more harmonised, more coordinated way with the public, in particular. Twenty-five priority conversion programs. One of them is the Istanbul International Financial Centre Programme. However, there is a problem with this too, because it takes a different mentality to implement these programs; the government has no such mentality. This programme, particularly about Istanbul being the financial center, we found that it was very inadequate. This is the only program that we've seen from 25 programs that need to be taken out in the first place, because Istanbul -- you know, with the airport, with its tunnel, with its third bridge, with its permanent investment, here are new hospitals, etc., and so on, if you add all this up, at least 200 billion dollars in this time of plan, it's a place to invest. Now, as a planner, would you invest $200 billion in one city, one city? That's pretty much what he's gonna get. With so much unemployment in Anatolia, with so much migration, with so much trouble in Asia Minor, can you collect your investments in one place, would that make sense? Unfortunately, the programme for Istanbul to become an international financial centre predicts this, predicts such a mistake, predicts an imbalance. A planner's logic doesn't do that. This, I believe, is just a program that was brought in for political reasons, put here for political reasons; it needs to be corrected for that, too. Besides, there are other reasons. See, the Tenth Annual Plan, paragraph 25, 26, 27, contains the title of the financial markets and capital currents, and there is a sentence in the 26th paragraph, which is very interesting: it may be one of the greatest resources that increasing investor interest in emerging markets can lead to our country. Now, let's draw capital from the Gulf region to our country. What does that mean? Which means you don't know who controls the capital in the bay area. Who controls the capital in the Gulf area? Whoever controls the international markets today is with them. Without their knowledge, can you check the capital in the bay area? Can you make Istanbul an international financial centre? The withdrawal of capital to our country in the Gulf region is the target. It's called "the destination," but there's no program for it. Istanbul's international financial center can be put into the program, unfortunately, there is such a mistake. In fact, it might have been more accurate if he had said the withdrawal of the equity capital. Many criteria are required to become Istanbul's financial centre. Most of the physical criteria actually exist, there are physical criteria. Potentially, Istanbul's infrastructure may also be available to become an international financial centre, but to do so, first of all, you need a mentality about being a financial centre. Like New York, Hong Kong, there's a different understanding of financial centers in the major leagues like London, there's a different structure. You don't get up and tell the financiers all the time, you don't say "favorous lobby"; you don't say anything that'll cause chaos, cause real chaos, so that private banks can withdraw their money, take it to public banks. In addition, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Atalay said something today, for example, that the Jewish diaspora caused these events. And you're trying to build a financial center on the one hand, and you're saying that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In a sense, all of this means that the government denies itself. So I think it should be removed from the program. I salute you all. I wish the Tenth Year's Development Plan to be a blessing.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0130par0115	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, the motions on the Tenth Development Plan have been completed. Under Law 3067, the entire plan will be put to a clear vote in accordance with amendments to the amendments adopted by the General Assembly. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Members of parliament will replace Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, Minister of Economics Zafer Çağlağ, Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, as well as Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Congressmans, the Tenth Development Plan 2014-2018 is an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 259 [[x]] Bayram Özçelik Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Thus, the Tenth Development Plan has been adopted. Good luck and good luck. Now, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, Minister of Development, will give a thank-you speech.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0131par0136	Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I salute you all. Of course, I have no intention of having a long conversation at this time of night, but if we don't thank you after so much hard work, that'll be a flaw. First of all, I'd like to thank my dear colleagues at the Ministry of Development, who have coordinated this plan day and night in a very selfless way. I thank and thank our ministers very, very much, our friends who work in all public institutions, our ministers who contribute to the plan. I sincerely thank all those who participate in our activities in the civil society, trade unions, the academic world, the business world, all the relevant areas, the channel of special residency commissions, and the local plane. Of course, I'd like to thank our Parliament very much, the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, those who came and contributed to the plan today during the day, to all our friends who contributed to the General Assembly. I especially want to thank our friends from the opposition party, who are coming up with a very positive plan, contributing to it, supporting it with their opinions, with their opinions, with their ideas. Today we have seen a very constructive sense of opposition together, and I thank them. I wish to carry out this plan, with the participation of all sections, in the process of implementing this plan, which has worked for nearly two years, with a really big effort. I wish the tenth Plan to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our country, to our country. With all due respect, I salute you. I wish you good night.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0132par0144	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, why wasn't there a thank-you for the Presidential Court? Why don't you thank us?
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0131par0146	I want to thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-07-01sit05spe0132par0147	Under the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (July 2nd 2013) to elect members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Presidential Court. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
